---
layout: page
title: "Reaper Man"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-reaper-man_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216755">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre6"/>
  Reaper Man <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216829" class="calibre7"></div>

  
   <div class="paragraph">The Morris dance is common to all inhabited worlds in the multiverse. It is danced under blue skies to celebrate the quickening of the soil and under bare stars because it's springtime and with any luck the carbon dioxide will unfreeze again. The imperative is felt by deep-sea beings who have never seen the sun and urban humans whose only connection with the cycles of nature is that their Volvo once ran over a sheep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is danced innocently by raggedy-bearded young mathematicians to an inexpert accordion rendering of "Mrs. Widgery's Lodger" and ruthlessly by such as the Ninja Morris Men of New Ankh, who can do strange and terrible things with a simple handkerchief and a bell. And it is never danced properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except on the Discworld, which is flat and supported on the backs of four elephants which travel through space on the shell of Great A'Tuin, the world turtle. And even there, only in one place have they got it right. It's a small village high in the Ramtop Mountains, where the big and simple secret is handed down across the generations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There, the men dance on the first day of spring, backwards and forwards, bells tied under their knees, white shirts flapping. People come and watch. There's an ox roast afterwards, and it's generally considered a nice day out for all the family.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But that isn't the secret.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The secret is the other dance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And that won't happen for a while yet.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There is a ticking, such as might be made by a clock. And, indeed, in the sky there is a clock, and the ticking of freshly minted seconds flows out from it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least, it looks a clock. But it is in fact exactly the opposite of a clock, and the biggest hand goes around just once. There is a plain under a dim sky. It is covered with gentle rolling curves that might remind you of something else if you saw it from a long way away, and if you did see it from a long way away you'd be very glad that you were, in fact, a long way away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three grey figures floated just above it. Exactly what they were can't be described in normal language. Some people might call them cherubs, although there was nothing rosycheeked about them. They might be numbered among those who see to it that gravity operates and that time stays separate from space.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Call them auditors. Auditors of reality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were in conversation without speaking. They didn't need to speak. They just changed reality so that they had spoken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, It has never happened before. Can it be done?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, It will have to be done. There is a personality. Personalities come to an end. Only forces endure. It said this with a certain satisfaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Besides... there have been irregularities. Where you get personality, you get irregularities. Well-known fact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, He has worked inefficiently?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, No. We can't get him there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, That is the point. The word is him. Becoming a personality is inefficient. We don't want it to spread. Supposing gravity developed a personality? Supposing it decided to like people?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Got a crush on them, sort of thing?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, in a voice that would have been even chillier if it was not already at absolute zero, No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Sorry. Just my little joke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Besides, sometimes he wonders about his job. Such speculation is dangerous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, No argument there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Then we are agreed?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One, who seemed to have been thinking about something, said, Just one moment. Did you not just use the singular pronoun, "my'? Not developing a personality, are you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, guiltily, Who? Us?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said. Where there is personality, there is discord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said. Yes. Yes. Very true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, All right. But watch it in future.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Then we are agreed?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked up at the face of Azrael, outlined against the sky. In fact, it was the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Azrael nodded, slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Very well. Where is this place?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, It is the Discworld. It rides through space on the back of a giant turtle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Oh, one of that sort. I hate them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, You're doing it again. You said ‘I'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, No! No! I didn't! I never said ‘I'!... oh, bugger...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It burst into flame. It burned in the same way that a small cloud of vapour burns, quickly and with no residual mess. Almost immediately, another one appeared. It was identical in appearance to its vanished sibling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Let that be a lesson. To become a personality is to end. And now... let us go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Azrael watched them skim away.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It is hard to fathom the thoughts of a creature so big that, in real space, his length would be measured only in terms of the speed of light. But he turned his enormous bulk and, with eyes that stars could be lost in, sought among the myriad worlds for a flat one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the back of a turtle. The Discworld - world and mirror of worlds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It sounded interesting. And, in his prison of a billion years, Azrael was bored.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And this is the room where the future pours into the past via the pinch of the now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Timers line the walls. Not hour-glasses, although they have the same shape. Not egg-timers, such as you might buy as a souvenir attached to a small board with the name of the holiday resort of your choice jauntily inscribed on it by someone with the same sense of style as a jelly doughnut. It's not even sand in there. It's seconds, endlessly turning the maybe into the was. And every lifetimer has a name on it. And the room is full of the soft hissing of people living.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture the scene...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now add the sharp clicking of bone on stone, getting closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dark shape crosses the field of vision and moves up the endless shelves of sibilant glassware. Click, click. Here's a glass with the top bulb nearly empty. Bone fingers rise and reach out. Select. And another. Select. And more. Many, many more. Select, Select.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's all in a day's work. Or it would be, if days existed here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Click, click, select, the dark shape moves patiently along the rows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And stops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And hesitates.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because here's a small gold timer, not much bigger than a watch. It wasn't there yesterday, or wouldn't have been if yesterdays existed here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bony fingers close around it and hold it up to the light. It's got a name on it, in small capital letters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The name is DEATH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death put down the timer, and then picked it up again. The sands of time were already pouring through. He turned it over experimentally, just in case. The sand went on pouring, only now it was going upwards. He hadn't really expected anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It meant that, even if tomorrows could exist here, there weren't going to be any. Not any more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a movement in the air behind him. Death turned slowly, and addressed the figure that wavered indistinctly in the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT THAT IS... NOT RIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him that No, it was right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not a muscle moved on Death's face, because he hadn't got any.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SHALL APPEAL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him, he should know that there was no appeal. Never any appeal. Never any appeal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death thought about this, and then he said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE ALWAYS DONE MY DUTY AS I SAW FIT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure floated closer. It looked vaguely like a grey-robed and hooded monk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him, We know. That is why we're letting you keep the horse.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was near the horizon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shortest-lived creatures on the Disc were mayflies, which barely make it through twenty-four hours. Two of the oldest zigzagged aimlessly over the waters of a trout stream, discussing history with some younger members of the evening hatching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't get the kind of sun now that you used to get, " said one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right there. We had proper sun in the good old hours. It were all yellow. None of this red stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It were higher, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was. You're right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And nymphs and larvae showed you a bit of respect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They did. They did," said the other mayfly vehemently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon, if mayflies these hours behaved a bit better, we'd still be having proper sun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The younger mayflies listened politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember, " said one of the oldest mayflies, "when all this was fields, as far as you could see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The younger mayflies looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's still fields," one of them ventured, after a polite interval.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember when it was better fields," said the old mayfly sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, " said his colleague. "And there was a cow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right! You're right! I remember that cow! Stood right over there for, oh, forty, fifty minutes. It was brown, as I recall."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't get cows like that these hours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't get cows at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's a cow?" said one of the hatchlings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See?" said the oldest mayfly triumphantly. "That's modern Ephemeroptera for you. " It paused. "What were we doing before we were talking about the sun?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Zigzagging aimlessly over the water," said one of the young flies. This was a fair bet in any case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, before that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... you were telling us about the Great Trout."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Yes. Right. The Trout. Well, you see, if you've been a good mayfly, zigzagging up and down properly -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- taking heed of your elders and betters -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- yes, and taking heed of your elders and betters, then eventually the Great Trout -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Clop</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Clop</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" said one of the younger mayflies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no reply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Great Trout what?" said another mayfly, nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked down at a series of expanding concentric rings on the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The holy sign!" said a mayfly. "I remember being told about that! A Great Circle in the water! Thus shall be the sign of the Great Trout!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The oldest of the young mayflies watched the water thoughtfully. It was beginning to realise that, as the most senior fly present, it now had the privilege of hovering closest to the surface.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say, " said the mayfly at the top of the zigzagging crowd, "that when the Great Trout comes for you, you go to a land flowing with... flowing with..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mayflies don't eat. It was at a loss. "Flowing with water, " it finished lamely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wonder, " said the oldest mayfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It must be really good there, " said the youngest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh? Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos no-one ever wants to come back."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Whereas the oldest things on the Discworld were the famous Counting Pines, which grow right on the permanent snowline of the high Ramtop Mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Counting Pine is one of the few known examples of borrowed evolution.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most species do their own evolving, making it up as they go along, which is the way Nature intended. And this is all very natural and organic and in tune with mysterious cycles of the cosmos, which believes that there's nothing like millions of years of really frustrating trial and error to give a species moral fibre and, in some cases, backbone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is probably fine from the species' point of view, but from the perspective of the actual individuals involved it can be a real pig, or at least a small pink root-eating reptile that might one day evolve into a real pig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So the Counting Pines avoided all this by letting other vegetables do their evolving for them. A pine seed, coming to rest anywhere on the Disc, immediately picks up the most effective local genetic code via morphic resonance and grows into whatever best suits the soil and climate, usually doing much better at it than the native trees themselves, which it usually usurps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What makes the Counting Pines particularly noteworthy, however, is the way they count.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being dimly aware that human beings had learned to tell the age of a tree by counting the rings, the original Counting Pines decided that this was why humans cut trees down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Overnight every Counting Pine readjusted its genetic code to produce, at about eye-level on its trunk, in pale letters, its precise age. Within a year they were felled almost into extinction by the ornamental house number plate industry, and only a very few survive in hard-to-reach areas.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The six Counting Pines in this clump were listening to the oldest, whose gnarled trunk declared it to be thirty-one thousand, seven hundred and thirty-four years old. The conversation took seventeen years, but has been speeded up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember when all this wasn't fields."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pines stared out over a thousand miles of landscape. The sky flickered like a bad special effect from a time travel movie. Snow appeared, stayed for an instant, and melted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was it, then?" said the nearest pine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ice. If you can call it ice. We had proper glaciers in those days. Not like the ice you get now, here one season and gone the next. It hung around for ages."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened to it, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It went."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Went where?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where things go. Everything's always rushing off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wow. That was a sharp one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That winter just then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call that a winter? When I was a sapling we had winters -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the tree vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a shocked pause for a couple of years, one of the clump said: "He just went! Just like that! One day he was here, next he was gone!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If the other trees had been humans, they would have shuffled their feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It happens, lad," said one of them, carefully. "He's been taken to a Better Place, you can be sure of that. He was a good tree."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The young tree, which was a mere five thousand, one hundred and eleven years old, said: "What sort of Better Place?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're not sure, " said one of the clump. It trembled uneasily in a week-long gale. "But we think it involves... sawdust."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Since the trees were unable even to sense any event that took place in less than a day, they never heard the sound of axes.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons, oldest wizard in the entire faculty of Unseen University - home of magic, wizardry and big dinners - was also going to die.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knew it, in a frail and shaky sort of way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, he mused, as he wheeled his wheel-chair over the flagstones towards his ground-floor study, in a general sort of way everyone knew they were going to die, even the common people. No-one knew where you were before you were born, but when you were born, it wasn't long before you found you'd arrived with your return ticket already punched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But wizards really knew. Not if death involved violence or murder, of course, but if the cause of death was simply a case of running out of life then... well, you knew. You generally got the premonition in time to return your library books and make sure your best suit was clean and borrow quite large sums of money from your friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was one hundred and thirty. It occurred to him that for most of his life he'd been an old man. Didn't seem fair, really.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And no-one had said anything. He'd mentioned it in the Uncommon Room last week, and no-one had taken the hint. And at lunch today they'd hardly spoken to him. Even his old so-called friends seemed to be avoiding him, and he wasn't even trying to borrow money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was like not having your birthday remembered, only worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was going to die all alone, and no-one cared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bumped the door open with the wheel of the chair and fumbled on the table by the door for the tinder box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was another thing. Hardly anyone used tinder boxes these days. They bought the big smelly yellow matches the alchemists made. Windle disapproved. Fire was important. You shouldn't be able to switch it on just like that, it didn't show any respect. That was people these days, always rushing around and... fires. Yes, it had been a lot warmer in the old days, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kind of fires they had these days didn't warm you up unless you were nearly on top of them. It was something in the wood... it was the wrong sort of wood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everything was wrong these days. More thin. More fuzzy. No real life in anything. And the days were shorter. Mmm. Something had gone wrong with the days. They were shorter days. Mmm. Every day took an age to go by, which was odd, because days plural went past like a stampede. There weren't many things people wanted a 130-year-old wizard to do, and Windle had got into the habit of arriving at the dining-table up to two hours before each meal, simply to pass the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Endless days, going by fast. Didn't make sense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mmm. Mind you, you didn't get the sense now that  you used to get in the old days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And they let the University be run by mere boys now. In the old days it had been run by proper wizards, great big men built like barges, the kind of wizards you could look up to. Then suddenly they'd all gone off somewhere and Windle was being patronised by these boys who still had some of their own teeth. Like that Ridcully lad. Windle remembered him clearly. Thin lad, sticking-out ears, never wiped his nose properly, cried for his mother in the dorm on the first night. Always up to mischief. Someone had tried to tell Windle that Ridcully was Archchancellor now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mmm. They must think he was daft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where was that damn tinder box? Fingers... you used to get proper fingers in the old days...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone pulled the covers off a lantern. Someone else pushed a drink into his groping hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Surprise!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the hall of the house of Death is a clock with a pendulum like a blade but with no hands, because in the house of Death there is no time but the present. (There was. of course. a present before the present now, but that was also the present. It was just an older one.)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pendulum is a blade that would have made Edgar Allan Poe give it all up and start again as a stand-up comedian on the scampi-in-a-casket circuit. It swings with a faint whum-whum noise, gently slicing thin rashers of interval from the bacon of eternity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death stalked past the clock and into the sombre gloom of his study. Albert, his servant, was waiting for him with the towel and dusters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good morning, master."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sat down silently in his big chair. Albert draped the towel over the angular shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another nice day," he said, conversationally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert flapped the polishing cloth and pulled back Death's cowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALBERT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death pulled out the tiny golden timer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO YOU SEE THIS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir. Very nice. Never seen one like that before. Whose is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MINE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert's eyes swivelled sideways. On one corner of Death's desk was a large timer in a black frame. It contained no sand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought that one was yours, sir?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS. NOW THIS IS. A RETIREMENT PRESENT. FROM AZRAEL HIMSELF.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert peered at the thing in Death's hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But... the sand, sir. It's pouring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">QUITE SO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But that means... I mean... ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT MEANS THAT ONE DAY THE SAND WILL ALL BE POURED, ALBERT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that, sir, but... you... I thought Time was something that happened to other people, sir. Doesn't it? Not to you, sir. " By the end of the sentence Albert's voice was beseeching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death pulled off the towel and stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">COME WITH ME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're Death, master," said Albert, running crab-legged after the tall figure as it led the way out into the hall and down the passage to the stable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This isn't some sort of joke, is it?" he added hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM NOT KNOWN FOR MY SENSE OF FUN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, of course not, no offense meant. But listen, you can't die. because you're Death, you'd have to happen to yourself, it'd be like that snake that eats its own tail -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NEVERTHELESS, I AM GOING TO DIE. THERE IS NO APPEAL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But what will happen to me?" Albert said. Terror glittered on his words like flakes of metal on the edge of a knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE WILL BE A NEW DEATH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert drew himself up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I really don't think I could serve a new master," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEN GO BACK INTO THE WORLD. I WILL GIVE YOU MONEY. YOU HAVE BEEN A GOOD SERVANT, ALBERT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But if I go back -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES, said Death. YOU WILL DIE.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the warm, horsey gloom of the stable, Death's pale horse looked up from its oats and gave a little whinny of greeting. The horse's name was Binky. He was a real horse. Death had tried fiery steeds and skeletal horses in the past, and found them impractical, especially the fiery ones, which tended to set light to their own bedding and stand in the middle of it looking embarrassed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death took the saddle down from its hook and glanced at Albert, who was suffering a crisis of conscience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thousands of years before, Albert had opted to serve Death rather than die. He wasn't exactly immortal. Real time was forbidden in Death's realm. There was only the ever-changing now, but it went on for a very long time. He had less than two months of real time left; he hoarded his days like bars of gold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I, er... " he began. "That is -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU FEAR TO DIE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not that I don't want... I mean, I've always... it's just that life is a habit that's hard to break..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death watched him curiously, as one might watch a beetle that had landed on its back and couldn't turn over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally Albert lapsed into silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I UNDERSTAND, said Death, unhooking Binky's bridle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you don't seem worried! You're really going to die?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. IT WILL BE A GREAT ADVENTURE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It will? You're not afraid?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DO NOT KNOW HOW TO BE AFRAID.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could show you, if you like," Albert ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. I SHOULD LIKE TO LEARN BY MYSELF. I SHALL HAVE</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EXPERIENCES. AT LAST.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Master... if you go, will there be -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A NEW DEATH WILL ARISE FROM THE MINDS OF THE LIVING, ALBERT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. " Albert looked relieved. "You don't happen to know what he'll be like, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps I'd better, you know, clean the place up a bit, get an inventory prepared, that sort of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GOOD IDEA, said Death, as kindly as possible. WHEN I SEE THE NEW DEATH, I SHALL HEARTILY RECOMMEND YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. You'll see him, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH. YES. AND I MUST LEAVE NOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What. so soon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">CERTAINLY. MUSTN'T WASTE TIME!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death adjusted the saddle, and then turned and held the tiny hour-glass proudly in front of Albert's hooked nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SEE! I HAVE TIME. AT LAST, I HAVE TIME</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert backed away nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now that you have it, what are you going to do with it?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death mounted his horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM GOING TO SPEND IT.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The party was in full swing. The banner with the legend ‘Goodebye Windle 130 Gloriouse Years' was dripping a bit in the heat. Things were getting to the point where there was nothing to drink but the punch and nothing to eat but the strange yellow dip with the highly suspicious tortillas and nobody minded. The wizards chatted with the forced jolliness of people who see one another all day and are now seeing one another all evening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the middle of it all Windle Poons sat with a huge glass of rum and a funny hat on his head. He was almost in tears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A genuine Going-Away party!" he kept muttering. "Haven't had one of them since old "Scratcher"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He Went Away, " the capital letters fell into place easily, "back in, mm, the Year of the Intimidating, mm, Porpoise. Thought everyone had forgotten about ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Librarian looked up the details for us, " said the Bursar, indicating a large orangutan who was trying to blow into a party squeaker. "He also made the banana dip. I hope someone eats it soon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I help you to some more potato salad?" he said, in the loud deliberate voice used for talking to imbeciles and old people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle cupped a trembling hand to his ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More! Salad! Windle?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another sausage, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sausage!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They give me terrible gas all night," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He considered this for a moment, and then took five.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," shouted the Bursar, "do you happen to know what time -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What! Time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Half past nine," said Windle, promptly if indistinctly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's nice, " said the Bursar. "It gives you the rest of the evening, er, free."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle rummaged in the dreadful recesses of his wheelchair, a graveyard for old cushions, dog-eared books and ancient, half-sucked sweets. He flourished a small green-covered book and pushed it into the Bursar's hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar turned it over. Scrawled on the cover were the words: Windle Poons Hys Dyary. A piece of bacon rind marked today's date.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under Things to Do, a crabbed hand had written: Die.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar couldn't stop himself from turning the page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. Under tomorrow's date, Things to Do: Get Born.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His gaze slid sideways to a small table at the side of the room. Despite the fact that the room was quite crowded, there was an area of clear floor around the table, as if it had some kind of personal space that no-one was about to invade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had been special instructions in the Going Away ceremony concerning the table. It had to have a black cloth, with a few magic sigils embroidered on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had a plate, containing a selection of the better canaps. It had a glass of wine. After considerable discussion among the wizards, a funny paper hat had been added as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all had an expectant look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar took out his watch and flicked open the cover.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was one of the new-fangled pocket watches, with hands. They pointed to a quarter past nine. He shook it. A small hatch opened under the 12 and a very small demon poked its head out and said, "Knock it off, guv'nor, I'm pedalling as fast as I can."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He closed the watch again and looked around desperately. No-one else seemed anxious to come too near Windle Poons. The Bursar felt it was up to him to make polite conversation. He surveyed possible topics. They all presented problems.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons helped him out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm thinking of coming back as a woman," he said conversationally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar opened and shut his mouth a few times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm looking forward to it," Poons went on. "I think it might, mm, be jolly good fun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar riffled desperately through his limited repertoire of small talk relating to women. He leaned down to Windle's gnarled ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't there rather a lot of, " he struck out aimlessly, "washing things? And making beds and cookery and all that sort of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not in the kind of, mm, life I have in mind," said Windle firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar shut his mouth. The Archchancellor banged on a table with a spoon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brothers -' he began, when there was something approaching silence. This prompted a loud and ragged chorus of cheering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- As you all know we are here tonight to mark the, ah, retirement" - nervous laughter – "‘of our old friend and colleague Windle Poons. You know, seeing old Windle sitting here tonight puts me in mind, as luck would have it, of the story of the cow with three wooden legs. It appears that there was this cow, and -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar let his mind wander. He knew the story.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor always mucked up the punch line, and in any case he had other things on his mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept looking back at the little table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar was a kindly if nervous soul, and quite enjoyed his job. Apart from anything else, no other wizard wanted it. Lots of wizards wanted to be  Archchancellor, for example, or the head of one of the eight orders of magic, but practically no wizards wanted to spend lots of time in an office shuffling bits of paper and doing sums. All the paperwork of the University tended to accumulate in the Bursar's office, which meant that he went to bed tired at nights but at least slept soundly and didn't have to check very hard for unexpected scorpions in his night-shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Killing off a wizard of a higher grade was a recognised way of getting advancement in the orders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">However, the only person likely to want to kill the Bursar was someone else who derived a quiet pleasure from columns of numbers, all neatly arranged, and people like that don't often go in for murder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He recalled his childhood, long ago, in the Ramtop Mountains. He and his sister used to leave a glass of wine and a cake out every Hogswatchnight for the Hogfather. Things had been different, then. He'd been a lot younger and hadn't known much and had probably been a lot happier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For example, he hadn't known that he might one day be a wizard and join other wizards in leaving a glass of wine and a cake and a rather suspect chicken vol-au-vent and a paper party hat for...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... someone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There'd been Hogswatch parties, too, when he was a little boy. They'd always follow a certain pattern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just when all the children were nearly sick with excitement, one of the grown-ups would say, archly, "I think we're going to have a special visitor!" and, amazingly on cue, there'd be a suspicious ringing of hog bells outside the window and in would come...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... in would come...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar shook his head. Someone's granddad in false whiskers, of course. Some jolly old boy with a sack of toys, stamping the snow off his boots. Someone who gave you something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whereas tonight...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, old Windle probably felt different about it. After one hundred and thirty years, death probably had a certain attraction. You probably became quite interested in finding out what happened next.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor's convoluted anecdote wound jerkily to its close. The assembled wizards laughed dutifully, and then tried to work out the joke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar looked surreptitiously at his watch. It was now twenty minutes past nine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons made a speech. It was long and rambling and disjointed and went on about the good old days and he seemed to think that most of the people around him were people who had been, in fact, dead for about fifty years, but that didn't matter because you got into the habit of not listening to old Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar couldn't tear his eyes away from his watch. From inside came the squeak of the treadle as the demon patiently pedalled his way towards infinity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twenty-five minutes past the hour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar wondered how it was supposed to happen. Did you hear - I think we're going to have a very special visitor - hoofbeats outside?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did the door actually open or did He come through it? Silly question. He was renowned for His ability to get into sealed places - especially into sealed places, if you thought about it logically. Seal yourself in anywhere and it was only a matter of time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar hoped He'd use the door properly. His nerves were twanging as it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The conversational level was dropping. Quite a few other wizards, the Bursar noticed, were glancing at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle was at the centre of a very tactfully widening circle. No-one was actually avoiding him, it was just that an apparent random Brownian motion was gently moving everyone away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wizards can see Death. And when a wizard dies, Death arrives in person to usher him into the Beyond. The Bursar wondered why this was considered a plus -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know what you're all looking at," said Windle, cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar opened his watch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hatch under the 12 snapped up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you knock it off with all this shaking around?" squeaked the demon. "I keeps on losing count."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, " the Bursar hissed. It was nine twenty-nine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bye, then, Windle," he said, shaking the old man's parchment-like hand. "The old place won't seem the same without you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know how we'll manage," said the Bursar, thankfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good luck in the next life," said the Dean. "Drop in if you're ever passing and happen to, you know, remember who you've been."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be a stranger, you hear?" said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons nodded amiably. He hadn't heard what they were saying. He nodded on general principles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards, as one man, faced the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hatch under the 12 snapped up again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bing bing bong bing," said the demon. "Bingely-bingely bong bing bing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said the Bursar, jolted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Half past nine, " said the demon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards turned to Windle Poons. They looked faintly accusing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you all looking at?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The seconds hand on the watch squeaked onwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are you feeling?" said the Dean loudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never felt better," said Windle. "Is there any more of that, mm, rum left?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The assembled wizards watched him pour a generous measure into his beaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to go easy on that stuff," said the Dean nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good health!" said Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor drummed his fingers on the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons, " he said, "are you quite sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle had gone off at a tangent. "Any more of these toturerillas? Not that I call it proper food," he said, "dippin' bits of hard bikky in sludge, what's so special about that? What I could do with right now is one of Mr. Dibbler's famous meat pies -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he died.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor glanced at his fellow wizards, and then tiptoed across to the wheelchair and lifted a blueveined wrist to check the pulse. He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the way I want to go, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, muttering about meat pies?" said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold on. Hold on," said the Archchancellor. "This isn't right, you know. According to tradition, Death himself turns up for the death of a wiz - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps He was busy, " said the Bursar hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," said the Dean. "Bit of a serious flu epidemic over Quirm way, I'm told."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quite a storm last night, too. Lots of shipwrecks, I daresay, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And of course it's springtime, when you get a great many avalanches in the mountains."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And plagues."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor stroked his beard thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm, " he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Alone of all the creatures in the world, trolls believe that all living things go through Time backwards. If the past is visible and the future is hidden, they say, then it means you must be facing the wrong way. Everything alive is going through life back to front. And this is a very interesting idea, considering it was invented by a race who spend most of their time hitting one another on the head with rocks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whichever way around it is, Time is something that living creatures possess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death galloped down through towering black clouds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now he had Time, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The time of his life.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons peered into the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo?" he said. "Hallo. Anyone there? What ho?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a distant, forlorn soughing, as of wind at the end of a tunnel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come out. come out, wherever you are," said Windle, his voice trembling with mad cheerfulness. "Don't worry. I'm quite looking forward to it, to tell the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He clapped his spiritual hands and rubbed them together with forced enthusiasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get a move on. Some of us have got new lives to go to," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The darkness remained inert. There was no shape, no sound. It was void, without form. The spirit of Windle Poons moved on the face of the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It shook its head. "Blow this for a lark," it muttered. "This isn't right at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It hung around for a while and then, because there didn't seem anything else for it, headed for the only home it had ever known.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a home he'd occupied for one hundred and thirty years. It wasn't expecting him back and put up a lot of resistance. You either had to be very determined or very powerful to overcome that sort of thing, but Windle Poons had been a wizard for more than a century. Besides, it was like breaking into your own house, the old familiar property that you'd lived in for years. You knew where the metaphorical window was that didn't shut properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In short, Windle Poons went back to Windle Poons.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Wizards don't believe in gods in the same way that most people don't find it necessary to believe in, say, tables. They know they're there, they know they're there for a purpose, they'd probably agree that they have a place in a well-organised universe, but they wouldn't see the point of believing, of going around saying, "O great table, without whom we are as naught". Anyway, either the gods are there whether you believe or not, or exist only as a function of the belief, so either way you might as well ignore the whole business and, as it were, eat off your knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, there is a small chapel off the University's Great Hall, because while the wizards stand right behind the philosophy as outlined above, you don't become a success~ wizard by getting up gods' noses even if those noses only exist in an ethereal or metaphorical sense. Because while wizards don't believe in gods they know for a fact that gods believe in gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And in this chapel lay the body of Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The University had instituted twenty-four hours sitting-in-state ever since the embarrassing affair thirty years previously with the late Prissal ‘Merry Rankster' Teatar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The body of Windle Poons opened its eyes. Two coins jingled on to the stone floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hands, crossed over the chest, unclenched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle raised his head. Some idiot had stuck a lily in his stomach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes swivelled sideways. There was a candle on either side of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his head some more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two more candles down there, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thank goodness for old Teatar, he thought. Otherwise I'd already be looking at the underside of a rather cheap pine lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Funny thing, he thought. I'm thinking. Clearly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lay back, feeling his spirit refilling his body like gleaming molten metal filling through a mould.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">White-hot thoughts seared across the darkness of his brain, fired sluggish neurones into action.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was never like this when I was alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I'm not dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not alive and not dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sort of non-alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or un-dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh dear...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swung himself upright. Muscles that hadn't worked properly for seventy or eighty years jerked into overdrive. For the first time in his entire life, he corrected himself, better make that ‘period of existence', Windle Poons' body was entirely under Windle Poons' control. And Windle Poons‘ spirit wasn't about to take any lip from a bunch of muscles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now the body stood up. The knee joints resisted for a while, but they were no more able to withstand the onslaught of will-power than a sick mosquito can withstand a blowtorch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door to the chapel was locked. However, Windle found that the merest pressure was enough to pull the lock out of the woodwork and leave fingerprints in the metal of the door handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, goodness, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He piloted himself out into the corridor. The distant clatter of cutlery and the buzz of voices suggested that one of the University's four daily meals was in progress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wondered whether you were allowed to eat when you were dead. Probably not, he thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And could he eat, anyway? It wasn't that he wasn't hungry. It was just that... well, he knew how to think, and walking and moving were just a matter of twitching some fairly obvious nerves, but how exactly did your stomach work?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It began to dawn on Windle that the human body is not run by the brain, despite the brain's opinion on the matter. In fact it's run by dozens of complex automatic systems, all whirring and clicking away with the kind of precision that isn't noticed until it breaks down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He surveyed himself from the control room of his skull. He looked at the silent chemical factory of his liver with the same sinking feeling as a canoe builder might survey the controls of a computerised super-tanker. The mysteries of his kidneys awaited Windle's mastery of renal control. What, when you got right down to it, was a spleen? And how did you make it go?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His heart sank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or, rather, it didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, gods," muttered Windle, and leaned against the wall. How did it work, now? He prodded a few, likely-looking nerves. Was it systolic... diastolic... systolic... diastolic...? And then there were the lungs, too...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like a conjurer keeping eighteen plates spinning at the same time - like a man trying to programme a video recorder from an instruction manual translated from Japanese into Dutch by a Korean rice-husker - like, in fact, a man finding out what total self-control really means, Windle Poons lurched onwards.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards of Unseen University set great store by big, solid meals. A man couldn't be expected to get down to some serious wizarding, they held, without soup, fish, game, several huge plates of meat, a pie or two, something big and wobbly with cream on it, little savoury things on toast, fruit, nuts and a brick-thick mint with the coffee. It gave him a lining to his stomach. It was also important that the meals were served at regular times. It was what gave the day shape, they said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except for the Bursar, of course. He didn't eat much, but lived on his nerves. He was certain he was anorectic, because every time he looked in a mirror he saw a fat man. It was the Archchancellor, standing behind him and shouting at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it was the Bursar's unfortunate fate to be sitting opposite the doors when Windle Poons smashed them in because it was easier than fiddling with the handles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bit through his wooden spoon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards revolved on their benches to stare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons swayed for a moment, assembling control of vocal chords, lips and tongue, and then said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I may be able to metabolise alcohol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor was the first one to recover.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Windle!" he said. "We thought you were dead!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had to admit that it wasn't a very good line. You didn't put people on a slab with candles and lilies all round them because you think they've got a bit of a headache and want a nice lie down for half an hour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle took a few steps forward. The nearest wizards fell over themselves in an effort to get away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am dead, you bloody young fool," he muttered. "Think I go around looking like this all the time? Good grief. " He glared at the assembled wizardry. "Anyone here know what a spleen is supposed to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached the table, and managed to sit down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably something to do with the digestion," he said. "Funny thing, you can go through your whole life with the bloody thing ticking away or whatever it does, gurgling or whatever, and you never know what the hell it's actually for. It's Like when you're lying in bed of a night and you hear your stomach or something go pripple-ipple-goinnng. It's just a gurgle to you, but who knows what marvellously complex chemical exchange processes are really going -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're an undead?" said the Bursar, managing to get the words out at last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't ask to be," said the late Windle Poons irritably looking at the food and wondering how the blazes one went about turning it into Windle Poons. "I only came back because there was nowhere else to go. Think I want to be here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But surely," said the Archchancellor, "didn't... you know the fella, the one with the skull and the scythe -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never saw him," said Windle, shortly, inspecting the nearest dishes. "Really takes it out of you, this un-dyin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards made frantic signals to one another over his head. He looked up and glared at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And don't think I can't see all them frantic signals," he said. And he was amazed to realise that this was true. Eyes that had viewed the past sixty years trough a pale, fuzzy veil had been bullied into operating like the finest optical machinery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact two main bodies of thought were occupying the minds of the wizards of Unseen University.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was being thought by most of the wizards was: this is terrible, is it really old Windle in there, he was such a sweet old buffer, how can we get rid of it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How can we get rid of it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was being thought by Windle Poons, in the humming, flashing cockpit of his brain, was: well, it's bye. There is life after death. And it's the same one. Just my luck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, " he said, " what're you going to do about it?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was five minutes later. Half a dozen of the most senior wizards scurried along the draughty corridor in the wake of the Archchancellor, whose robes billowed ?out? behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The conversation went like this:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's got to be Windle! It even talks like him!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not old Windle. Old Windle was a lot older!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Older? Older than dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's said he wants his old bedroom back, and I don't see why I should have to move out -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you see his eyes? Like gimlets!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh? What? What d'you mean? You mean like that dwarf who runs the delicatessen on Cable Street?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean like they bore into you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- it's got a lovely view of the gardens and I've had all my stuff moved in and it's not fair -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has this ever happened before?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, there was old Teatar -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but he never actually died, he just used to put green paint on his face and push the lid off the coffin and shout "Surprise, surprise -" "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've never had a zombie here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a zombie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think so -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does that mean he'll be playing kettle drums and doing that bimbo dancing all night, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that what they do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Old Windle? Doesn't sound like his cup of tea. He never liked dancing much when he was alive -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, you can't trust those voodoo gods. Never trust a god who grins all the time and wears a top hat, that's my motto."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- I'm damned if I'm going to give up my bedroom to a zombie after waiting years for it -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it? That's a funny motto."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons strolled around the inside of his own head again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Strange thing, this. Now he was dead, or not living any more, or whatever he was, his mind felt clearer than it had ever done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And control seemed to be getting easier, too. He hardly had to bother about the whole respiratory thing, the spleen seemed to be working after a fashion, the senses were operating at full speed. The digestive system was still a bit of a mystery, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at himself in a silver plate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He still looked dead. Pale face, red under the eyes. A dead body. Operating but still, basically, dead. Was that fair? Was that justice? Was that a proper reward for being a firm believer in reincarnation for almost 130 years? You come back as a corpse?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No wonder the undead were traditionally considered to be very angry.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Something wonderful, if you took the long view, was about to happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If you took the short or medium view, something horrible was about to happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's like the difference between seeing a beautiful new star in the winter sky and actually being close to the supernova. It's the difference between the beauty of morning dew on a cobweb and actually being a fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was something that wouldn't normally have happened for thousands of years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was about to happen now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was about to happen at the back of a disused cupboard in a tumble-down cellar in the Shades, the oldest and most disreputable part of Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Plop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a sound as soft as the first drop of rain on a century of dust.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we could get a black cat to walk across his coffin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He hasn't got a coffin!" wailed the Bursar, whose grip on sanity was always slightly tentative.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OK, so we buy him a nice new coffin and then we get a black cat to walk across it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, that's stupid. We've got to make him pass water."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pass water. Undeads can't do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards, who had crowded into the Archchancellor's study, gave this statement their full, fascinated attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sure?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well-known fact," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He used to pass water all the time when he was alive, " said the Dean doubtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not when he's dead, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Makes sense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Running water, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes suddenly. "It's running water. Sorry. They can't cross over it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I can't cross running water, either," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Undead! Undead!" The Bursar was becoming a little unglued.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, stop teasing him, " said the Lecturer, patting the trembling man on the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I can't, " said the Dean. "I sink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Undead can't cross running water even on a bridge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And is he the only one, eh? Are we going to have a plague of them, eh?" said the Lecturer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor drummed his fingers on his desk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dead people walking around is unhygienic, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This silenced them. No-one had ever looked at it that way, but Mustrum Ridcully was just the sort of man who would.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum Ridcully was, depending on your point of view, either the worst or the best Archchancellor that Unseen University had had for a hundred years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was too much of him, for one thing. It wasn't that he was particularly big, it was just that he had the kind of huge personality that fits any available space. He'd get roaring drunk at supper and that was fine and acceptable wizardly behaviour. But then he'd go back to his room and play darts all night and leave at five in the morning to go duck hunting. He shouted at people. He tried to jolly them along. And he hardly ever wore proper robes. He'd persuaded Mrs. Whitlow, the University's dreaded housekeeper, to make him a sort of baggy trouser suit in garish blue and red; twice a day the wizards stood in bemusement and watched him jog purposefully around the University buildings, his pointy wizarding hat tied firmly on his head with string. He'd shout cheerfully up at them, because fundamental to the make-up of people like Mustrum Ridcully is an iron belief that everyone else would like it, too, if only they tried it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe he'll die, " they told one another hopefully, as they watched him try to break the crust on the river Ankh for an early morning dip. "All this healthy exercise can't be good for him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stories trickled back into the University. The Archchancellor had gone two rounds bare-fisted with Detritus, the huge odd-job troll at the Mended Drum. The Archchancellor had arm-wrestled with the Librarian for a bet and, although of course he hadn't won, still had his arm afterwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor wanted the University to form its own football team for the big city game on Hogswatchday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Intellectually, Ridcully maintained his position for two reasons. One was that he never, ever, changed his mind about anything. The other was that it took him several minutes to understand any new idea put to him, and this is a very valuable trait in a leader, because anything anyone is still trying to explain to you after two minutes is probably important and anything they give up after a mere minute or so is almost certainly something they shouldn't have been bothering you with in the first place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There seemed to be more Mustrum Ridcully than one body could reasonably contain.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Plop. Plop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the dark cupboard in the cellar, a whole shelf was already full.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was exactly as much Windle Poons as one body could contain, and he steered it carefully along the corridors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I never expected this, he thought. I don't deserve this. There's been a mistake somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt a cool breeze on his face and realised he'd tottered out into the open air. Ahead of him were the University's gates, locked shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly Windle Poons felt acutely claustrophobic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd waited years to die, and now he had, and here he was stuck in this - this mausoleum with a lot of daft old men, where he'd have to spend the rest of his life being dead. Well, the first thing to do was get out and make a proper end to himself -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Evening, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around very slowly and saw the small figure of Modo, the University's dwarf gardener, who was sitting in the twilight smoking his pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Hallo, Modo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ‘eard you was took dead, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er. Yes. I was. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See you got over it, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Poons nodded, and looked dismally around the walls. The University gates were always locked at sunset every evening, obliging students and staff to climb over the walls. He doubted very much that he'd be able to manage that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He clenched and unclenched his hands. Oh, well...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there any other gateway around here, Modo?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, where shall we have one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of tortured masonry, followed by a vaguely Poons-shaped hole in the wall. Windle's hand reached back in and picked up his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo relit his pipe. You see a lot of interesting things in this job, he thought.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In an alley, temporarily out of sight of passers-by, someone called Reg Shoe, who was dead, looked both ways, took a brush and a paint tin out of his pocket, and painted on the wall the words:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DEAD YES! GONE NO!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and ran away, or at least lurched off at high speed.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor opened a window on to the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards listened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dog barked. Somewhere a thief whistled, and was from a neighbouring rooftop. In the distance people were having the kind of quarrel that caused inhabitants of the surrounding streets to open their windows and listen in and make notes. But these were by major themes against the continuous hum and buzz of the city. Ankh-Morpork purred through the night, en route for the dawn, like a huge living creature although, of course, this was only a metaphor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" said the Senior Wrangler. "I can't hear anything special."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I mean. Dozens of people die in Ankh-Morpork every day. If they'd all started coming back like poor old Windle, don't you think we'd know about it? The place'd be in uproar. More uproar than usual, I mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always a few undead around," said the Dean, doubtfully. "Vampires and zombies and banshees and so on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but they're more naturally undead," said the Archchancellor. "They know how to carry it off. They're born to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be born to be undead," the Senior Wrangler pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean it's traditional," the Archchancellor snapped. "There were some very respectable vampires where I grew up. They'd been in their family for centuries."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but they drink blood," said the Senior Wrangler. "That doesn't sound very respectable to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I read where they don't actually need the actual blood," said the Dean, anxious to assist. "They just need something that's in blood. Hemogoblins, I think it's called."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other wizards looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean shrugged. "Search me," he said. "Hemo-goblins. That's what it said. It's all to do with people having iron in their blood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm damn sure I've got no iron goblins in my blood," said the Senior-Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At least they're better than zombies," said the Dean. "A much better class of people. Vampires don't go shuffling around the whole time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"People can be turned into zombies, you know," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, in conversational tones. "You don't even need magic. Just the liver of a certain rare fish and the extract of a particular kind of root. One spoonful, and when you wake up, you ‘re a zombie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What type of fish?" said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How should I know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How should anyone know, then?" said the Senior Wrangler nastily. "Did someone wake up one morning and say, hey, here's an idea, I'll just turn someone into a zombie, all I'll need is some rare fish liver and a piece of root, it's just a matter of finding the right one? You can see the queue outside the hut, can't you? No. 94, Red Stripefish liver and Maniac root... didn't work. No. 95, Spikefish liver and Dum-dum root... didn't work. No. 96 -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you talking about?" the Archchancellor demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was simply pointing out the intrinsic unlikelihood of -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," said the Archchancellor, matter-of-factly. "Seems to me... seems to me... look, death must be going on, right? Death has to happen. That's what bein' alive is all about. You're alive, and then you're dead. It can't just stop happening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he didn't turn up for Windle, " the Dean pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Death goes on all the time, " said Ridcully, ignoring him. "Most of things die all the time. Even vegetables."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't think Death ever came for a potato," said Dean doubtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Death comes for everything," said the Archchancellor, firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards nodded sagely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while the Senior Wrangler said, "Do you know, I read the other day that every atom in your body is changed every seven years? New ones keep getting attached and old ones keep on dropping off. It goes on all the time. Marvellous, really. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler could do to a conversation that it takes quite thick treacle to do to the pedals of a precision watch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes? What happens to the old ones?" said Ridcully, interested despite himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dunno. They just float around in the air, I suppose, until they get attached to someone else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor looked affronted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, even wizards?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. Everyone. It's part of the miracle of existence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it? Sounds like bad hygiene to me," said the Archchancellor. "I suppose there's no way of stopping ?it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think so," said the Senior Wrangler, doubtfully. "I don't think you're supposed to stop miracles of existence. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But that means everythin' is made up of everythin' else, " said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Isn't it amazing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's disgusting, is what it is, " said Ridcully, shortly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, the point I'm making... the point I'm making... " He paused, trying to remember. "You can't just abolish death, that's the point. Death can't die. That's like asking a scorpion to sting itself. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As a matter of fact," said the Senior Wrangler, always ready with a handy fact. "you can get a scorpion to -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, " said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we can't have an undead wizard wandering around," said the Dean. "There's no telling what he might take it into his head to do. We've got to... put a stop to him. For his own good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," said Ridcully. "For his own good. Shouldn't be too hard. There must be dozens of ways to deal with an undead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Garlic," said the Senior Wrangler flatly. "Undead don't like garlic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't blame them. Can't stand the stuff," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Undead! Undead!" said the Bursar, pointing an accusing finger. They ignored him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, and then there's sacred items," said the Senior Wrangler. "Your basic undead chunkles into dust as soon as look at ‘em. And they don't like daylight. And if the worst comes to the worst, you bury them at a crossroads. That's surefire, that is. And you stick a stake in them to make sure they don't get up again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With garlic on it," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, yes. I suppose you could put garlic on it," the Senior Wrangler conceded, reluctantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you should put garlic on a good steak," said the Dean. ‘Just a little oil and seasoning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Red pepper is nice," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Plop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cupboard door's hinges finally gave way, spilling its contents into the room.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon of the Ankh-Morpork City Guard was on duty. He was guarding the Brass Bridge, the main link between Ankh and Morpork. From theft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When came to crime prevention, Sergeant Colon ???  ~fest to think big.???  ras a school of thought that believed the best way to get recognised as a keen guardian of the law in Ankh-Morpork would be to patrol the streets and alleys, bribe informants, follow suspects and so on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon played truant from this particular school. Not, he would, hasten to say, because trying to keeping down crime in Ankh-Morpork was like trying to keep down salt in the sea and the only recognition a keen guardian of the law was likely to get was the sort that goes, "Hey, that body in the gutter, isn't that old Sergeant Colon?" but because the modern, go-ahead, intelligent law officer ought to be at least one jump ahead of the contemporary criminal. One day someone was bound to try to steal the Brass Bridge, and then they'd find Sergeant Colon right there waiting for them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the meantime, it offered a quiet place out of the wind where he could have a relaxing smoke and probably not see anything that would upset him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned with his elbows on the parapet, wondering vaguely about Life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure stumbled out of the mist. Sergeant Colon recognised the familiar pointy hat of a wizard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good evening, officer, " its wearer croaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Morning, y'honour."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you be kind enough to help me up on to the parapet, officer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon hesitated. But the chap was a wizard. A man could get into serious trouble not helping wizards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trying out some new magic, y'honour?" he said, brightly, helping the skinny but surprisingly heavy body up on to the crumbling stonework.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons stepped off the bridge. There was a squelch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon looked down as the waters of the Ankh closed again, slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Those wizards. Always up to something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched for a while. After several minutes there was a disturbance in the scum and debris near the base of one of the pillars of the bridge, where a flight of greasy stairs led down to the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pointy hat appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon heard the wizard slowly climb the stairs, swearing under his breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons reached the top of the bridge again. He was soaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to go and get changed," Sergeant Colon volunteered. "You could catch your death, standing around like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get your feet in front of a roaring fire, that's what I'd do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon looked at Windle Poons in his own private puddle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You been trying some special kind of underwater magic, y'honour?" he ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly, officer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've always wondered about what it's like under water," said Sergeant Colon, encouragingly. "The myst'ries of the deep, strange and wonderful creatures... my mum told me a tale once, about this little boy what turned into a mermaid, well, not a mermaid, and he had all these adventures under the s -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words drained away under Windle Poons' dreadful stare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Evening," said Windle. He turned and started to lurch into the mist. "Very, very boring. Very boring being dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon was left alone. He lit a fresh cigarette with a  trembling hand, and started to walk hurriedly towards the Watch headquarters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That face, " he told himself. "And those eyes... just whatsisname... who's that bloody dwarf who runs the delicatessen on Cable Street..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sargeant!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon froze. Then he looked down. A face was starring up at him from ground level. When he'd got a grip on himself, he made out the sharp features of his old friend Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler, the Discworld's Ruling talking argument in favour of the theory that mankind had descended from a species of rodent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">C.M.O.T. Dibbler liked to describe himself as a merchant adventurer; everyone else liked to describe him as an itinerant pedlar whose money-making shemes were always let down by some small but vital flaw, such as trying to sell things he didn't own or which didn't work or, sometimes, didn't even exist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fairy gold is well known to evaporate by morning, but it was a reinforced concrete slab by comparison to some of Throat's merchandise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was standing at the bottom of some steps that led down to one of Ankh-Morpork's countless cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo, Throat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you step down here a minute, Fred? I could use a bit of legal aid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got a problem, Throat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dibbler scratched his nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Fred... Is it a crime to be given something? I mean, without you knowing it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone been giving you things, Throat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Throat nodded. "Dunno. You know I keep merchandise down here?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, I just come down to do a bit of stock-taking, and... " He waved a hand helplessly. "Well... take a look..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the cellar door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the darkness something went plop.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons lurched aimlessly along a dark alley in the Shades, arms extended in front of him, hands hanging down at the wrists. He didn't know why. It just seemed the right way to go about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jumping off a building? No, that wouldn't work, either. It was hard enough to walk as it was, and two broken legs wouldn't help. Poison? He imagined it would be like having a very bad stomach ache. Noose? Hanging around would probably be more boring than sitting on the bottom of the river.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached a noisome courtyard where several alleys met. Rats scampered away from him. A cat screeched and scurried off over the rooftops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As he stood wondering where he was, why he was, and what ought to happen next, he felt the point of a knife against his backbone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OK, grandad," said a voice behind him, "it's your money or your life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the darkness Windle Poons' mouth formed a horrible grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I‘m not playing about, old man, " said the voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you Thieves' Guild?" said Windle, without turning around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, we're... freelances. Come on, let's see the colour of your money."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haven't got any," said Windle. He turned around. There were two more muggers behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ye gods, look at his eyes," said one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle raised his arms above his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ooooooooh," he moaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The muggers backed away. Unfortunately, there was a wall behind them. They flattened themselves against it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OoooOOOOoooobuggeroffoooOOOooo, " said Windle, who hadn't realised that the only way of escape lay through him. He rolled his eyes for better effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maddened by terror, the would-be attackers dived under his arms, but not before one of them had sunk his knife up to the hilt in Windle's pigeon chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey! That was my best robe!" he said. "I wanted to be buried in - will you look at it? You know how difficult it is to darn silk? Come back here this - Look at it, right where it shows -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He listened. There was no sound but the distant and retreating scurry of footsteps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons removed the knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could have killed me," he muttered, tossing it away.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the cellar, Sergeant Colon picked up one of the objects that lay in huge drifts on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There must be thousands of ‘em," said Throat, behind him. "What I want to know is, who put them there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon turned the object round and round in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never seen one of these before, " he said. He gave a shake. His face lit up. "Pretty, ain't they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The door was locked and everything," said Throat ‘And I‘m paid up with the Thieves' Guild."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon shook the thing again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" Nice," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fred?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon, fascinated, watched the little snowflakes far inside the tiny glass globe. "Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What am I supposed to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dunno. I suppose they're yours, Throat. Can imagine why anyone'd want to get rid of ‘em, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned towards the door. Throat stepped into his path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then that'll be twelve pence, " he said smoothly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For the one you just put in your pocket, Fred."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon fished the globe out of his pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on!" he protested. "You just found them, heh. They didn't cost you a penny!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but there's storage... packing... handling . .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tuppence, " said Colon desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tenpence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Threepence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sevenpence - and that's cutting my own throat, mark you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Done," said the sergeant, reluctantly. He gave the globe another shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice, ain't they?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Worth every penny," said Dibbler. He rubbed his hands together hopefully. "Should sell like hot cake's," he said, picking up a handful and shoving them into box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He locked the door behind them when they left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the darkness something went plop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork has always had a fine tradition of welcoming people of all races, colours and shapes, if they have money to spend and a return ticket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">According to the Guild of Merchants‘ famous publication, Welkome to Ankh-Morporke, Citie of One Thousand Surprises, `you the visitor will be asurred of a Warm Wellcome in the countless Ins and hostelries of this Ancient Citie, where many specialise in catering for the taste of guest from distant part. So if you a Manne, Trolle, Dwarfe, Goblin or Gnomm, Ankh-Morpork will raise your Glass convivial and say: Cheer! Here looking, you Kid! Up, You Bottom!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons didn't know where undead went for a good time. All he knew, and he knew it for a certainty, was that if they could have a good time anywhere then they could probably have it in Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His laboured footsteps led him deeper into the Shades. Only they weren't so laboured now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For more than a century Windle Poons had lived inside the walls of Unseen University. In terms of accumulated years, he may have lived a long time. In terms of experience, he was about thirteen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was seeing, hearing and smelling things he'd never seen, heard or smelled before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Shades was the oldest part of the city. If you could do a sort of relief map of sinfulness, wickedness and all-round immorality, rather like those representations of the gravitational field around a Black Hole, then even in Ankh-Morpork the Shades would be represented by a shaft. In fact the Shades was remarkably like the aforesaid well-known astronomical phenomenon: it had a certain strong attraction, no light escaped from it, and it could indeed become a gateway to another world. The next one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Shades was a city within a city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The streets were thronged. Muffled figures slunk past on errands of their own. Strange music wound up from sunken stairwells. So did sharp and exciting smells.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Poons passed goblin delicatessens and dwarf bars from which came the sounds of singing and fighting which dwarfs traditionally did at the same time. And there were trolls, moving through the crowds like... like big people moving among little people. They weren't shambling, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle had hitherto seen trolls only in the more select parts of the city, where they moved with exaggerated caution in case they accidentally clubbed someone to death and ate them. In the Shades they strode, unafraid, heads held so high they very nearly rose above their shoulder-blades.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons wandered through the crowds like random shot on a pinball table. Here a blast of smoky sound from a bar spun him back into the street, there a discreet doorway promising unusual and forbidden delights attracted him like a magnet. Windle Poons' life hadn't included even very many usual an approved delights. He wasn't even certain what they were. Some sketches outside one pink-lit, inviting doorway left him even more mystified but incredible anxious to learn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around and around in pleased astonishment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This place! Only ten minutes walk or fifteen minutes lurch from the University! And he'd never known it was there! All these people! All this noise. All this life!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several people of various shapes and species jostle him. One or two started to say something, shut their mouths quickly, and hurried off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were thinking... his eyes! Like gimlets!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then a voice from the shadows said: "Hallo, bigboy. You want a nice time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes!" said Windle Poons, lost in wonder. "Oh, yes! Yes!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloody hell!" There was the sound of someone hurrying away down an alley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle's face fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Life, obviously, was only for the living. Perhaps this back-to-your-body business had been a mistake after all. He'd been a fool to think otherwise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned and, hardly bothering to keep his own heart beating, went back to the University.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle trudged across the quad to the Great Hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor would know what to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There he is!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's him!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get him!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle's trained thought ran over a cliff. He looked around at five red, worried, and above all familiar faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, hallo, Dean," he said, unhappily. "And is that the Senior Wrangler? Oh, and the Archchancellor, this is -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grab his arm!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't look at his eyes!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grab his other arm!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is for your own good, Windle!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not Windle! It's a creature of the Night!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I assure you -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you got his legs?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grab his leg!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grab his other leg!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you grabbed everything?" roared the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum Ridcully reached into the massive recesses of his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, fiend in human shape," he growled, "what d'you think of this, then? Ah-ha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle squinted at the small object that was thrust triumphantly under his nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, er... " he said diffidently, "I'd say... yes... hmm... yes, the smell is very distinctive, isn't it... yes, quite definitely. Allium sativum. The common domestic garlic. Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards stared at him. They stared at the little white clove. They stared at Windle again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am right, aren't I?" he said, and made an attempt at a smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said the Archchancellor. "Yes. Yes, that's right. " Ridcully cast around for something to add.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well done, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you for trying," said Windle. "I really appreciate it. " He stepped forward. The wizards might as well have tried to hold back a glacier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now I'm going to have a lie down," he said. " It's been a long day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lurched into the building and creaked along the corridors until he reached his room. Someone else seemed to have moved some of their stuff into it, but Windle dealt with that by simply picking it all up in one sweep of his arms and throwing it out into the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he lay down on the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sleep. Well, he was tired. That was a start. But sleeping meant letting go of control, and he wasn't too certain that all the systems were fully functional yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, when you got right down to it, did he have to sleep at all? After all, he was dead. That was supposed to be just like sleeping, only even more so. They said that dying was just like going to sleep, although of course if you weren't careful bits of you could rot and drop off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What were you supposed to do when you slept, anyway? Dreaming... wasn't that all to do with sorting out your memories, or something? How did you go about it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never thought being dead would be so much trouble, " he said aloud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while a faint but insistent squeaking noise made him turn his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Over the fireplace was an ornamental candlestick, fixed to a bracket on the wall. It was such a familiar piece of furniture that Windle hadn't really seen it for fifty years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was coming unscrewed. It spun around slowly, squeaking once a turn. After half a dozen turns it fell off and clattered to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Inexplicable phenomena were not in themselves unusual on the Discworld. It was just that they normally had more point, or at least were a bit more interesting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing else seemed to be about to move. Windle relaxed, and went back to organising his memories. There was stuff in there he'd completely forgotten about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief whispering outside, and then the door burst open -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get his legs! Get his legs!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold his arms!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle tried to sit up. "Oh, hallo, everyone, " he said. ‘What's the matter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor, standing at the foot of the bed, fumbled in a sack and produced a large, heavy object.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held it aloft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha!" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle peered at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" he said, helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha," said the Archchancellor again, but with slightly less conviction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a symbolic double-handled axe from the cult of Blind Io," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor gave him a blank look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, yes," he said, "that's right." He threw it over his shoulder, almost removing the Dean's left ear, and fished in the sack again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a rather fine example of the Mystic Tooth of Offler the Crocodile God, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that's a... let me see now... yes, that's the matched set of sacred Flying Ducks of Ordpor the Tasteless. I say, eh, this is fun!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's... don't tell me, don't tell me... that's the holy linglon of the notorious Sootee cult, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-ha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that one's the three-headed fish of the Howanda three-headed fish religion," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is ridiculous," said the Archchancellor, dropping the fish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards sagged. Religious objects weren't such a surefire undead cure after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm really sorry to be such a nuisance, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean suddenly brightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Daylight!" he said excitedly. "That'll do the trick!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get the curtain!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get the other curtain!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One, two, three... now!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle blinked in the invasive sunlight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards held their breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry," he said. "It doesn't seem to work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They sagged again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you feel anything?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No sensation of crumbling into dust and blowing away?" said the Senior Wrangler hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My nose tends to peel if I'm out in the sun too long," said Windle. "I don't know if that's any help. " He tried to smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards looked at one another and shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get out," said the Archchancellor. They trooped out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully followed them. He paused at the door and waved a finger at Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This uncooperative attitude, Windle, is not doing you any good," he said, and slammed the door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few seconds the four screws holding the door handle very slowly unscrewed themselves. They rose up and orbited near the ceiling for a while, and then fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle thought about this for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Memories. He had lots of them. One hundred and thirty years of memories. When he was alive he hadn't been able to remember one-hundredth of the things he knew but now he was dead, his mind uncluttered with everything except the single silver thread of his thoughts, he could feel them all there. Everything he'd ever read, everything he'd ever seen, everything he'd ever heard. All there, ranged in ranks. Nothing forgotten. Everything in its place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three inexplicable phenomena in one day. Four, if you included the fact of his continued existence. That was really inexplicable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It needed explicating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, that was someone else's problem. Everything was someone else's problem now.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards crouched outside the door of Windle's room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got everything?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why can't we get some of the servants to do it?" muttered the Senior Wrangler. "It's undignified."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because I want it done properly and with dignity," snapped the Archchancellor. "If anyone's going to bury a wizard at a crossroads with a stake hammered through him, then wizards ought to do it. After all, we're his friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is this thing, anyway?" said the Dean, inspecting the implement in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's called a shovel, " said the Senior Wrangler. "I've seen the gardeners use them. You stick the sharp end in the ground. Then it gets a bit technical."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully squinted through the keyhole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's lying down again," he said. He got up, brushing the dust off his knees, and grasped the door handle. "Right," he said. "Take your time from me. One...two..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo the gardener was trundling a barrow load of hedge trimmings to a bonfire behind the new High Energy Magic research building when about half a dozen wizards went past at, for wizards, high speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons was being borne aloft between them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo heard him to say, "Really, Archchancellor, are you quite sure this one will work -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got your best interests at heart," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure, but -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll soon have you feeling your old self again," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, we won't," hissed the Dean. "That's the whole point!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll soon have you not feeling your old self again, that's the whole point," stuttered the Bursar, as they rounded the corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo picked up the handles of the barrow again and pushed it thoughtfully towards the secluded area where he kept his bonfire, his compost heaps, his leaf-mould pile, and the little shed he sat in when it rained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He used to be assistant gardener at the palace, but this job was a lot more interesting. You really got to see life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork society is street society. There is always something interesting going on. At the moment, the driver of a two-horse fruit wagon was holding the Dean six inches in the air by the scruff of the Dean's robe and was threatening to push the Dean's face through the back of the Dean's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's peaches, right?" he kept bellowing. "You know what happens to peaches what lies around too long? They get bruised. Lots of things round here are going to get bruised."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am a wizard, you know, " said the Dean, his pointy shoes dangling. "If it wasn't for the fact that it would be against the rules for me to use magic in anything except a purely defensive manner, you would definitely be in a lot of trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What you doing, anyway?" said the driver, lowering the Dean so he could look suspiciously over his shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said a man trying to control the team pulling a lumber wagon, "what's going on? There's people here being paid by the hour, you know!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Move along at the front there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lumber driver turned in his seat and addressed the queue of carts behind him. "I'm trying to, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not my fault, is it? There's a load of wizards digging up the godsdamn street!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor's muddy face peered over the edge of the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, for heaven's sake, Dean, " he said, "I told you to sort things out!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I was just asking this gentleman to back up and go another way," said the Dean, who was afraid he was beginning to choke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fruiterer turned him around 90 that he could see along the crowded streets. "Ever tried to back up sixty carts all at once?" he demanded. "It's not easy. Especially when everyone can't move because you guys have got it so's the carts are backed up all round the block and no-one can move because everyone's in someone else's way, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean tried to nod. He had wondered himself about the wisdom of digging the hole at the junction of the Street of Small Gods and Broad Way, two of the busiest streets in Ankh-Morpork. It had seemed logical at the time. Even the most persistent undead ought to stay decently buried under that amount of traffic. The only problem was that no-one had thought seriously about the difficulty of digging up a couple of main streets during the busy time of day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, all right, what's going on here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd of spectators opened to admit the bulky figure of Sergeant Colon of the Watch. He moved through the people unstoppably, his stomach leading the way. When he saw the wizards, waist deep in a hole in the middle of the road, his huge red face brightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's this,  then?"  he said. "A gang of international crossroads thieves?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was overjoyed. His long-term policing strategy was paying off!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor tipped a shovelful of Ankh-Morpork loam over his boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be stupid, man," he snapped. "This is vitally important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. That's what they all say," said Sergeant Colon, not a man to be easily steered from a particular course of thought once he'd got up to mental speed. "‘I bet there's hundreds of villages in heathen places like Klatch that'd pay good money for a nice prestigious crossroads like this, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked up at him with his mouth open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you gabbling about, officer?" he said. He pointed irritably to his pointy hat. "Didn't you hear me? We're wizards. This is wizard business. So if you could just sort of direct the traffic around us, there's a good chance -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- these peaches bruise as soon as you even look at ‘em –" said a voice behind Sergeant Colon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The old idiots have been holding us up for half an hour," said a cattle drover who had long ago lost control of forty steers now wandering aimlessly around the nearby streets. "I wants ‘em arrested."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It dawned on the sergeant that he had inadvertently placed himself centre stage in a drama involving hundreds of people, some of them wizards and all of them angry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing, then?" he said weakly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're burying our colleague. What does it look like?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colon's eyes swivelled to an open coffin by the side of the road. Windle Poons gave him a little wave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But... he's not dead... is he?" he said, his forehead wrinkling as he tried to get ahead of the situation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Appearances can be deceptive," said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he just waved to me," said the sergeant, desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's not normal for -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right, sergeant, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon sidled closer to the coffin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't I see you throw yourself into the river last night?" he said, out of the corner of his mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. You were very helpful," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And then you threw yourself sort of out again," said the sergeant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you were down there for ages."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it was very dark, you see. I couldn't find the steps."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon had to concede the logic of this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I suppose you must be dead, then," he said. ‘No-one could stay down there who wasn't dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is it," Windle agreed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only why are you waving and talking?" said Colon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler poked his head out of the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not unknown for a dead body to move and make noises after death, Sergeant," he volunteered. "It's all down to involuntary muscular spasms."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, Senior Wrangler is right," said Windle Poons. "I read that somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. " Sergeant Colon looked around. "Right, " he said, uncertainly. "Well... fair enough, I suppose..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OK, we're done," said the Archchancellor, scrambling out of the hole, "it's deep enough. Come on, Windle, down you go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I really am very touched, you know," said Windle, lying back in the coffin. It was quite a good one, from the mortuary in Elm Street. The Archchancellor had let him choose it himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully picked up a mallet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle sat up again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone's going to so much trouble -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, right," said Ridcully, looking around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now - who's got the stake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone looked at the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar looked unhappy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He fumbled in a bag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I couldn't get any, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor put his hand over his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right," he said quietly. "You know, I'm not surprised? Not surprised at all. What did you get? Lamb chops? A nice piece of pork?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Celery, " said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's his nerves, " said the Dean, quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Celery," said the Archchancellor, his self-control rigid enough to bend horseshoes around. "Right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar handed him a soggy green bundle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully took it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, Windle, " he said, "I'd like you to imagine that what I have in my hand -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's quite all right, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not actually sure I can hammer -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't mind, I assure you, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The principle is sound," said Windle. "If you just hand me the celery but think hammering a stake, that's probably sufficient."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's very decent of you," said Ridcully. "That shows a very proper spirit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esprit de corpse," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully glared at him, and thrust the celery dramatically towards Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take that!" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now let's put the lid on and go and have some lunch," said Ridcully. "Don't worry, Windle. It's bound to work. Today is the last day of the rest of your life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lay in the darkness, listening to the hammering. There was a thump and a muffled imprecation against the Dean for not holding the end properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the patter of soil on the lid, getting fainter and more distant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while a distant rumbling suggested that the commerce of the city was being resumed. He could even hear muffled voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He banged on the coffin lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you beep it down?" he demanded. "There's people down here trying to be dead!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard the voices stop. There was the sound of feet hurrying away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lay there for some time. He didn't know how long. He tried stopping all functions, but that just made things uncomfortable. Why was dying so difficult? Other people seemed to manage it, even without practice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Also, his leg itched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to reach down to scratch it, and his hand touched something small and irregularly shaped. He managed to get his fingers around it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It felt like a bundle of matches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a coffin? Did anyone think he'd smoke a quiet cigar to pass the time?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a certain amount of effort he managed to push one boot off with the other boot and ease it up until he could just grasp it. This gave him a rough surface to strike the match on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sulphurous light filled his tiny oblong world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tiny scrap of cardboard pinned to the inside of the lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He read it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He read it again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The match went out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lit another one, just to check that what he had read really did exist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The message was still as strange, even third time round:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dead? Depressed?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Feel like starting it all again?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then why not come along to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FRESH START CLUB</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thursdays, 12 pm. 668 Elm Street</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EVERY BODY WELCOME</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The second match went out, taking the last of the oxygen with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lay in the dark for a while, considering his next move and finishing off the celery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Who'd have thought it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it suddenly dawned on the late Windle Poons that there was no such thing as somebody else's problem, and that just when you thought the world had pushed you aside it turned out to be full of strangeness. He knew from experience that the living never found out half of what was really happening, because they were too busy being the living. The onlooker sees most of the game, he told himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the living who ignored the strange and wonderful, because life was too full of the boring and mundane. But it was strange. It had things in it like screws that unscrewed themselves, and little written messages to the dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He resolved to find out what was going on. And then... if Death wasn't going to come to him, he'd go to Death. He had his rights, after all. Yeah. He'd lead the biggest missing-person hunt of all time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle grinned in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Missing - believed Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Today was the first day of the rest of his life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Ankh-Morpork lay at his feet. Well, metaphorically. The only way was up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached up, felt for the card in the dark, and pulled it free. He stuck it between his teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons braced his feet against the end of the box, pushed his hands past his head, and heaved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soggy loam of Ankh-Morpork moved slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle paused out of habit to take a breath, and realised that there was no point. He pushed again. The end of the coffin splintered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle pulled it towards him and tore the solid pine like paper. He was left with a piece of plank which would have been a totally useless spade for anyone with un-zombie-like strength.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Turning on to his stomach, tucking the earth around him with his impromptu spade and ramming it back with his feet, Windle Poons dug his way towards a fresh start.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a landscape, a plain with rolling curves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's late summer in the octarine grass country below the towering peaks of the high Ramtops, and the predominant colours are umber and gold. Heat sears the landscape. Grasshoppers sizzle, as in a frying pan. Even the air is too hot to move. It's the hottest summer in living memory and, - in these parts, that's a long, long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a figure on horseback, moving slowly along a road that's an inch deep in dust between fields of corn that already promise an unusually rich harvest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a fence of baked, dead wood. There's a notice pinned to it. The sun has faded the letters, but they are still readable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a shadow, falling across the notice. You can almost hear it reading both the words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's a track leading off the road, towards a small group of bleached buildings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture dragging footsteps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a door, open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a cool, dark room, glimpsed through the open doorway. This isn't a room that people live in a lot. It's a room for people who live outdoors but have to come inside sometimes, when it gets dark. It's a room for harnesses and dogs, a room where oilskins are hung up to dry. There's a beer barrel by the door. There are flagstones on the floor and, along the ceiling beams, hooks for bacon. There's a scrubbed table that thirty hungry men could sit down at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are no men. There are no dogs. There is no beer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There is no bacon.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence after the knocking, and then the flap flap of slippers on flagstones. Eventually a skinny old woman with a face the colour and texture of a walnut peered around the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE NOTICE SAID ‘MAN WANTED'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did it? Did it? That's been up there since before last winter!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM SORRY? YOU NEED NO HELP?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wrinkled face looked at him thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't pay more'n sixpence a week, mind," it said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall figure looming against the sunlight appeared to consider this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. it said, eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't even know where to start you workin', either. We haven't had any proper help here for three years. I just hire the lazy goodfornothin's from the village when I want ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't mind, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE A HORSE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman peered around the stranger. In the yard was the most impressive horse she'd ever seen. Her eyes narrowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that's your horse, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With all that silver on the harness and everything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you want to work for sixpence a week?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman pursed her lips. She looked from the stranger to the horse to the dilapidation around the farm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She appeared to reach a decision, possibly on the lines that someone who owned no horses probably didn't have much to fear from a horse thief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're to sleep in the barn, understand?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SLEEP? YES. OF COURSE. YES, I WILL HAVE TO SLEEP.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Couldn't have you in the house anyway. It wouldn't be right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE BARN WILL BE QUITE ADEQUATE, I ASSURE YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you can come into the house for your meals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name's Miss Flitworth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect you have a name, too," she prompted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. THAT'S RIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waited again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M SORRY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is your name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stranger stared at her for a moment, and then looked around wildly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said Miss Flitworth. "l ain't employing no-one without no name. Mr... . ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure stared upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MR. SKY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one's called Mr. Sky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MR... . DOOR?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could be. Could be Mr. Door. There was a chap called Doors I knew once. Yeah. Mr. Door. And your first name? Don't tell me you haven't got one of those, too. You've got to be a Bill or a Tom or a Bruce or one of those names."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ONE OF THOSE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ER. THE FIRST ONE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a Bill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth rolled her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, Bill Sky... " she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DOOR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Sorry. All right, Bill Door..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">CALL ME BILL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you can call me Miss Flitworth. I expect you want some dinner?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WOULD? AH. YES. THE MEAL OF THE EVENING. YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You look half starved, to tell the truth. More than half, really. " She squinted at the figure. Somehow it was very hard to be certain what Bill Door looked like, or even remember the exact sound of his voice. Clearly he was there, and clearly he had spoken - otherwise why did you remember anything at all?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a lot of people in these parts as don't use the name they were born with," she said. ‘l always say there's nothing to be gained by going around asking pers'nal questions. I suppose you can work, Mr. Bill Door? I'm still getting the hay in off the high meadows and there'll be a lot of work come harvest. Can you use a scythe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door seemed to meditate on the question for some time. Then he said, I THINK THE ANSWER TO THAT IS A DEFINITE ‘YES', MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler also never saw the sense in asking personal questions, at least insofar as they applied to him and were on the lines of ‘Are these things yours to sell?" But no-one appeared to be coming forward to berate him for selling off their property, and that was good enough for him. He'd sold more than a thousand of the little globes this morning, and he'd had to employ a troll to keep up a flow from the mysterious source of supply in the cellar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People loved them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The principle of operation was laughably simple and easily graspable by the average Ankh-Morpork citizen after a few false starts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If you gave the globe a shake, a cloud of little white snowflakes swirled up in the liquid inside and settled, delicately, on a tiny model of a famous Ankh-Morpork landmark. In some globes it was the University, or the Tower of Art, or the Brass Bridge, or the Patrician's Palace. The detail was amazing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there were no more left. Well, thought Throat, that's a shame. Since they hadn't technically belonged to him - although morally, of course, morally they were his - he couldn't actually complain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, he could complain, of course, but only under his breath and not to anybody specific. Maybe it was all for the best, come to think of it. Stack ‘em high, sell ‘em cheap. Get ‘em off your hands - it made it much  easier to spread them in a gesture of injured innocence when you said ‘Who, me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were really pretty, though. Except, strangely enough, for the writing. It was on the bottom of each globe, in shaky, amateurish letters, as if done by someone who had never seen writing before and was trying to copy some down. On the bottom of every globe, below the intricate little snowflake-covered building, were the words:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">~fo r~3</div>
   <div class="paragraph">4h~ MorPor"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum Ridcully, Archchancellor of Unseen University, was a shameless autocondimentor. He had his own special cruet put in front of him at every meal. It consisted of salt, three types of pepper, four types of mustard, four types of vinegar, fifteen different kinds of chutney and his special favourite: Wow-Wow Sauce, a mixture of mature scumble, pickled cucumbers, capers, mustard, mangoes, figs, grated wahooni, anchovy essence, asafetida and, significantly, sulphur and saltpetre for added potency.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully inherited the formula from his uncle who, after half a pint of sauce on a big meal one evening, had a charcoal biscuit to settle his stomach, lit his pipe and disappeared in mysterious circumstances, although his shoes were found on the roof the following summer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was cold mutton for lunch. Mutton went well with Wow-Wow Sauce; on the night of Ridcully senior's death, for example, it had gone at least three miles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum tied his napkin behind his neck, rubbed his hands together, and reached out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cruet moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out again. It slid away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, you fellows," he said. "No magic at Table, you know the rules. Who's playing silly buggers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other senior wizards stared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I, I, I don't think we can play it any more, " said the Bursar, who at the moment was only occasionally bouncing off the sides of sanity, "I, I, I think we lost some of the pieces..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around, giggled, and went back to trying to cut his mutton with a spoon. The other wizards were keeping knives out of his way at present.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The entire cruet floated up into the air and started to spin slowly. Then it exploded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards, dripping vinegar and expensive spices, watched it owlishly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was probably the sauce," the Dean ventured. "It was definitely going a bit critical last night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something dropped on his head and landed in his lunch. It was a black iron screw, several inches long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another one mildly contused the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a second or two, a third landed point down on the table by the Archchancellor's hand and stuck there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards turned their eyes upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Great Hall was lit in the evenings by one massive chandelier, although the word so often associated with glittering prismatic glassware seemed inappropriate for the huge, heavy, black, tallow-encrusted thing that hung from the ceiling like a threatening overdraft. It could hold a thousand candles. It was directly over the senior wizards' table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another screw tinkled on to the floor by the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor cleared his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Run?" he suggested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chandelier dropped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bits of table and crockery smashed into the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lumps of lethal tallow the size of a man's head whirred through the windows. A whole candle, propelled out of the wreckage at a freak velocity, was driven several inches into a door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor disentangled himself from the remains of his chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bursar!" he yelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar was exhumed from the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um, yes, Archchancellor?" he quavered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was the meanin' of that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully's hat rose from his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a basic floppy-brimmed, pointy wizarding hat, but adapted to the Archchancellor's outgoing lifestyle. Fishing flies were stuck in it. A very small pistol crossbow was shoved in the hatband in case he saw something to shoot while out jogging, and Mustrum Ridcully had found that the pointy bit was just the right size for a small bottle of Bentinck's Very Old Peculiar Brandy. He was quite attached to his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it was no longer attached to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It drifted gently across the room. There was a faint but distinct gurgling noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor leapt to his feet. "Bugger that," he roared. "That stuff's nine dollars a fifth!" He made a leap for the hat, missed, and kept on going until he drifted to a halt several feet above the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar raised a hand, nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Possibly woodworm?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If there is any more of this," growled Ridcully, "anymore at all, d'you hear, I shall get very angry!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was dropped to the floor at the same time as the big doors opened. One of the college porters bustled in, followed by a squad of the Patrician's palace guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard captain looked the Archchancellor up and down with the expression of one to whom the word ‘civilian' is pronounced in the same general tones as ‘cockroach'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You the head chap?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor smoothed his robe and tried to straighten his beard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am the Archchancellor of this university, yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard captain looked curiously around the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The students were all cowering down the far end. Splashed food covered most of the walls to ceiling height. Bits of furniture lay around the wreckage of the chandelier like trees around ground zero of a meteor strike.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he spoke with all the distaste of someone whose own further education had stopped at age nine, but who'd heard stories...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Indulging in a bit of youthful high spirits, were we?" he said. "Throwin' a few bread rolls around, that kind of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"May I ask the meaning of this intrusion?" said Ridcully, coldly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard captain leaned on his spear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," he said, "it's like this. The Patrician is barricaded in his bedroom on account of the furniture in the palace is zooming around the place like you wouldn't believe, the cooks won't even go back in the kitchen on account of what's happening in there..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards tried not to look at the spear's head. It was starting to unscrew itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway," the captain went on, oblivious to the faint metallic noises, "the Patrician calls through the keyhole, see, and says to me, "Douglas, I wonder if you wouldn't mind nipping down to the University and asking the head man if he would be so good as to step up here, if he's not too busy?" But I can always go back and tell him you're engagin' in a bit of student humour, if you like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spearhead was almost off the shaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You listening to me?" said the captain suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm? What?" said the Archchancellor, tearing his eyes away from the spinning metal. "Oh. Yes. Well, I can assure you, my man, that we are not the cause of -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aargh!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pardon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The spearhead fell on my foot!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did it?" said Ridcully, innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard captain hopped up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen, are you bloody hocus-pocus merchants coming or not?" he said, between bounces. "The boss is not very happy. Not very happy at all."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A great formless cloud of Life drifted across the Discworld, like water building up behind a dam when the sluice gates are shut. With no Death to take the life force away when it was finished with, it had nowhere else to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here and there it earthed itself in random poltergeist activity, like flickers of summer lightning before a big storm. Everything that exists, yearns to Live. That's what the cycle of life is all about. That's the engine that drives the great biological pumps of evolution. Everything tries to inch its way up the tree, clawing or tentacling or sliming its way up to the next niche until it gets to the very top - which, on the whole, never seems to have been worth all that effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everything that exists, yearns to live. Even things that are not alive. Things that have a kind of sub-life, a metaphorical life, an almost life. And now, in the same way that a sudden hot spell brings forth unnatural and exotic blooms...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something about the little globes. You had to pick them up and give them a shake, watch the pretty snowflakes swirl and glitter. And then take them home and put them on the mantelpiece.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then forget about them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The relationship between the University and the Patrician, absolute ruler and nearly benevolent dictator of Ankh-Morpork, was a complex and subtle one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards held that, as servants of a higher truth, they were not subject to the mundane laws of the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said that, indeed, this was the case, but they would bloody well pay their taxes like everyone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards said that, as followers of the light of wisdom, they owed allegiance to no mortal man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said that this may well be true but they also owed a city tax of two hundred dollars per head per annum, payable quarterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards said that the University stood on magical ground and was therefore exempt from taxation and anyway you couldn't put a tax on knowledge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said you could. It was two hundred dollars per capita; if per capita was a problem, decapita could be arranged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards said that the University had never paid taxes to the civil authority.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said he was not proposing to remain civil for long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards said, what about easy terms?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said he was talking about easy terms. They wouldn't want to know about the hard terms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards said that there was a ruler back in, oh, it would be the Century of the Dragonfly, who had tried to tell the University what to do. The Patrician could come and have a look at him if he liked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician said that he would. He truly would.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the end it was agreed that while the wizards of course paid no taxes, they would nevertheless make an entirely voluntary donation of, oh, let's say two hundred dollars per head, without prejudice, mutatis mutandis, no strings attached, to be used strictly for non-militaristic and environmentally-acceptable purposes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was this dynamic interplay of power blocs that made Ankh-Morpork such an interesting, stimulating and above all bloody dangerous place in which to live.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Senior wizards did not often get out and about on what Welkome to Ankh-Morporke probably called the thronged highways and intimate byways of the city, but it was instantly obvious that something was wrong. It wasn't that cobblestones didn't sometimes fly through the air, but usually someone had thrown them. They didn't normally float by themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A door burst open and a suit of clothes came out, a pair of shoes dancing along behind it, a hat floating a few inches above the empty collar. Close behind them came a skinny man endeavouring to do with a hastily-snatched flannel what normally it took a whole pair of trousers to achieve.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You come back here!" he screamed, as they rounded the corner. "I still owe seven dollars for you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A second pair of trousers scurried out into the street and hurried after them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards clustered together like a frightened animal with five pointed heads and ten legs, wondering who was going to be the first to comment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's bloody amazing!" said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?" said the Dean, trying to imply that he saw more amazing things than that all the time, and that in drawing attention to mere clothing running around by itself the Archchancellor was letting down the whole tone of wizardry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on. I don't know many tailors round here who'd throw in a second pair of pants for a seven dollar suit," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it comes past again, try to trip it up so's I can have a look at the label."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bedsheet squeezed through an upper window and flapped away across the rooftops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Y'know," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, trying to keep his voice calm and relaxed, "I don't think this is magic. It doesn't feel like magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler fished in one of the deep pockets of his robe. There was a muffled clanking and rustling and the occasional croak. Eventually he produced a dark blue glass cube. It had a dial on the front.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You carry one of them around in your pocket?" said the Dean. "A valuable instrument like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell is it?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazingly sensitive magical measuring device," said the Dean. "Measures the density of a magical field. A thaumometer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler proudly held the cube aloft and pressed a button on the side. A needle on the dial wobbled around a little bit and stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See?" said the Senior Wrangler. "‘Just natural background, representing no hazard to the public."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Speak up," said the Archchancellor. "I can't hear you above the noise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Crashes and screams rose from the houses on either side of the street.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Evadne Cake was a medium, verging on small.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a demanding job. Not many people who died in Ankh-Morpork showed much inclination to chat to their surviving relatives. Put as many mystic dimensions between you and them as possible, that was their motto. She filled in between engagements with dressmaking and church work - any church.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake was very keen on religion, at least on Mrs. Cake's terms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evadne Cake was not one of those bead-curtain-and-incense mediums, partly because she didn't hold with incense but mainly because she was actually very good at her profession. A good conjurer can astound you with a simple box of matches and a perfectly ordinary deck of cards, if you would care to examine them, sir, you will see they are a perfectly ordinary deck of cards - he doesn't need the finger-nipping folding tables and complicated collapsible top hats of lesser prestidigitators. And, in the same way, Mrs. Cake didn't need much in the way of props. Even the industrial-grade crystal ball was only there as a sop to her customers. Mrs. Cake could actually read the future in a bowl of porridge. * She could have a revelation in a panful of frying bacon. She had spent a lifetime dabbling in the spirit world, except that in Evadne's case dabbling wasn't really apposite. She wasn't the dabbling kind. It was more a case of stamping into the spirit world and demanding to see the manager.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, while making her breakfast and cutting up dogfood for Ludmilla, she started to hear voices. They were very faint. It wasn't that they were on the verge of hearing, because they were the kind of voices that ordinary ears can't hear. They were inside her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... watch what you're doing... where am I... quit shoving, there...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then they faded again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were replaced by a squeaking noise from the next room. She pushed aside her boiled egg and waddled through the bead curtain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sound was coming from under the severe, no-nonsense hessian cover of her crystal ball.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evadne went back into the kitchen and selected a heavy frying pan. She waved it through the air once or twice, getting the heft of it, and then crept towards the crystal under its hood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raising the pan ready to swat anything unpleasant, she twitched aside the cover.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ball was turning slowly round and round on its stand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evadne watched it for a while. Then she drew the curtains, eased her weight down on the chair, took a deep breath and said, " Is there anybody there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of the ceiling fell in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After several minutes and a certain amount of struggle Mrs. Cake managed to get her head free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ludmilla!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were soft footsteps in the passageway and then something come in from the back yard. It was clearly, even attractively female, in general shape, and wore a perfectly ordinary dress. It was also apparently suffering from a case of superfluous hair that not all the delicate pink razors in the world could erase. Also, teeth and fingernails were being worn long this season. You expected the whole thing to growl, but it spoke in a pleasant and definitely human voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mother?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oi'm under ‘ere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fearsome Ludmilla lifted up a huge joist and tossed it lightly aside. "What happened? Didn't you have your premonition switched on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oi turned it off to speak to the baker. Cor, that gave me a turn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll make you a cup of tea, shall I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now then, you know you always crushes teacups when it's your Time. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm getting better at it, " said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a good girl, but I'll do it myself, thanks all the same."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake stood up, brushed the plaster dust off her apron, and said: "They shouted! They shouted! All at once!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo the University gardener was weeding a rose bed when the ancient, velvet lawn beside him heaved and sprouted a hardy perennial Windle Poons, who blinked in the light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that you, Modo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right, Mr. Poons," said the dwarf. ‘Shall I give you a hand up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I can manage, thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a shovel in the shed, if you like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, it's perfectly all right. " Windle pulled himself out of the grass and brushed the soil off the remains of his robe. "Sorry about your lawn," he added, looking down at the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did it take long to get it looking like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About five hundred years, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gosh, I am sorry. I was aiming for the cellars, but I seem to have lost my bearings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you worry about that, Mr. Poons," said the dwarf cheerfully. "Everything's growing like crazy anyway. I'll fill it in this afternoon and put some more seed down and five hundred years will just zoom past, you wait and see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The way things are going, I probably will," said Windle moodily. He looked around. ‘Is the Archchancellor here?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I saw them all going up to the palace," said the gardener.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I think I'll just go and have a quick bath and a change of clothes. I wouldn't want to disturb anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard you wasn't just dead but buried too, " said the gardener, as Windle lurched off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't keep a good man down, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle turned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By the way... where's Elm Street?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo scratched an ear. "Isn't it that one off Treacle Mine Road?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. I remember."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo went back to his weeding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The circular nature of Windle Poons' death didn't bother him much. After all, trees looked dead in the winter, burst forth again every spring. Dried up old seeds went in the ground, fresh young plants sprang up. Practically nothing ever died for long. Take compost, for example.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo believed in compost with the same passion that other people believed in gods. His compost heaps heaved and fermented and glowed faintly in the dark, perhaps because of the mysterious and possibly illegal ingredients Modo fed them, although nothing had ever been pried and, anyway, no-one was about to dig into one to see what was in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All dead stuff, but somehow alive. And it certainly grew roses. The Senior Wrangler had explained to Modo that his roses grew so big because it was a miracle of existence, but Modo privately thought that they just wanted to get as far away from the compost as possible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heaps were in for a treat tonight. The weeds were really doing well. He'd never known plants to grow so fast and luxuriantly. It must be all the compost, Modo thought.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">By the time the wizards reached the palace it was in uproar. Pieces of furniture were gliding across the ceiling. A shoal of cutlery, like silvery minnows in mid-air, flashed past the Archchancellor and dived away down a corridor. The place seemed to be in the grip of a selective and tidy-minded hurricane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Other people had already arrived. They included a group dressed very like the wizards in many ways, although there were important differences to the trained eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Priests?" said the Dean. "Here? Before us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two groups began very surreptitiously to adopt positions that left their hands free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What good are they?" said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a noticeable drop in metaphorical temperature.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A carpet undulated past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor met the gaze of the enormous Chief Priest of Blind Io who, as senior priest of the senior god in the Discworld's rambling pantheon, was the nearest thing Ankh-Morpork had to a spokesman on religious affairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Credulous fools," muttered the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Godless tinkerers," said a small acolyte, peering out from behind the Chief Priest's bully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gullible idiots!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Atheistic scum!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Servile morons!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Childish conjurors!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloodthirsty priests!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Interfering wizards!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully raised an eyebrow. The Chief Priest nodded very slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They left the two groups hurling imprecations at each other from a safe distance and strolled nonchalantly towards a comparatively quiet part of the room where, beside a statue of one of the Patrician's predecessors, they turned and faced one another again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So... how are things in the god bothering business?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We do our humble best. How is the dangerous meddling with things man was not meant to understand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pretty fair. Pretty fair. " Ridcully removed his hat and fished inside the pointy bit. "Can I offer you a drop of something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Alcohol is a snare for the spirit. Would you care for a cigarette? I believe you people indulge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not me. If I was to tell you what that stuff does to your lungs -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully unscrewed the very tip of his hat and poured a generous measure of brandy into it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So, " he said, "what's happening?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had an altar float up into the air and drop on us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A chandelier unscrewed itself. Everything's unscrewing itself. You know, I saw a suit of clothes run past on the way here? Two pairs of pants for seven dollars!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. Did you see the label?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything's throbbing, too. Notice the way everything's throbbing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We thought it was you people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not magic. Suppose the gods aren't more than usually unhappy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apparently not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind them, the priests and the wizards were screaming chin to chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Chief Priest moved a little closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I could be strong enough to master and defeat just a little snare," he said. "I haven't felt like this since Mrs. Cake was one of my flock."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs. Cake? What's a Mrs. Cake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have... ghastly Things from the Dungeon Dimensions and things, yes? Terrible hazards of your ungodly profession?" said the Chief Priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have someone called Mrs. Cake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully gave him an enquiring look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't ask," said the priest, shuddering. "Just be grateful you'll never have to find out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully silently passed him the brandy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just between the two of us," said the priest, "have you got any ideas about all this? The guards are trying to dig his lordship out. You know he'll want answers. I'm not even certain I know the questions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not magic and not gods," said Ridcully. "Can I have the snare back? Thank you. Not magic and not gods. That doesn't leave us much, does it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose there's not some kind of magic you don't know about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If there is, we don't know about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fair enough, " the priest conceded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose it's not the gods up to a bit of ungodliness on the side?" said Ridcully, clutching at one last straw. "A couple of ‘em had a bit of a tiff or something? Messing around with golden apples or something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's very quiet on the god front right now, " said the Chief Priest. His eyes glazed as he spoke, apparently reading from a script inside his head. "Hyperopia, goddess of shoes, thinks that Sandelfon, god of corridors, is the long-lost twin brother of Grune, god of unseasonal fruit. Who put the goat in the bed of Offler, the Crocodile God? Is Offler forging an alliance with Seven-handed Sek? Meanwhile, Hoki the Jokester is up to his old tricks -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, yes, all right," said Ridcully. "I've never been able to get interested in all that stuff, myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind them, the Dean was trying to prevent the Lecturer in Recent Runes from attempting to turn the priest of Offler the Crocodile God into a set of matching suitcases, and the Bursar had a bad nosebleed from a lucky blow with a thurible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What we've got to present here, " said Ridcully, "is a united front. Right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Agreed, " said the Chief Priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. For now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small rug sinewaved past at eye level. The Chief Priest handed back the brandy bottle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Incidentally, mother says you haven't written lately, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah... " The other wizards would have been surprised at their Archchancellor's look of contrite embarrassment. "I've been busy. You know how it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She said to be sure to remind you she's expecting both of us over for lunch on Hogswatchday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I haven't forgotten," said Ridcully, glumly. ‘I'm looking forward to it. " He turned to the melee behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cut it out, you fellows," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brethren! Desist!" bellowed the Chief Priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler released his grip on the head of the high priest of the Cult of Hinki. A couple of curates stopped kicking the Bursar. There was a general adjustment of clothing, a finding of hats and a bout of embarrassed coughing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's better," said Ridcully. "Now then, his Eminence the Chief Priest and myself have decided -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean glowered at a very small bishop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He kicked me! He kicked me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ooo! I never did, my son."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You bloody well did," the Dean hissed. ‘Sideways, so they wouldn't see!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- have decided –" repeated Ridcully, glaring at the Dean, "to pursue a solution to the current disturbances in a spirit of brotherhood and goodwill and that includes you, Senior Wrangler."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I couldn't help it! He pushed me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well! May you be forgiven!" said the Archdeacon of Thrume, stoutly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crash from above. A chaise-longue cantered down the stairs and smashed through the hall door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think perhaps the guards are still trying to free the Patrician," said the High Priest. "Apparently even his secret passages locked themselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All of them? I thought the sly devil had ‘em everywhere," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All locked," said the High Priest. "All of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Almost all of them," said a voice behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully's tones did not change as he turned around, except that a slight extra syrup was added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure had apparently stepped out of the wall. It was human, but only by default. Thin, pale, and clad all in dusty black, the Patrician always put Ridcully in mind of a predatory flamingo, if you could find a flamingo that was black and had the patience of a rock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah, Lord Vetinari," he said, "I am so glad you are unhurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will see you gentlemen in the Oblong Office, " said the Patrician. Behind him, a panel in the wall slid back noiselessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I, um, I believe there are a number of guards upstairs trying to free –" the Chief Priest began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician waved a thin hand at him. "I wouldn't dream of stopping them," he said. ‘It gives them something to do and makes them feel important. Otherwise they just have to stand around all day looking fierce and controlling their bladders. Come this way."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The leaders of the other Ankh-Morpork Guilds turned up in ones and twos, gradually filling the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician sat gloomily staring at the paper-work on his desk as they argued.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's not us," said the head of the Alchemists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Things are always flying through the air when you fellows are around," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but that's only because of unforeseen exothermic reactions, " said the alchemist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Things keep blowing up," translated the deputy-head alchemist, without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They may blow up, but they come down again. They don't flutter around and, e.g., start unscrewing themselves," said his chief, giving him a warning frown. ‘Anyway, why'd we do it to ourselves? I tell you, it's hell in my workshop! There's stuff whizzing everywhere! Just before I came out, a huge and very expensive piece of glassware broke into splinters!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marry, ‘twas a sharp retort, " said a wretched voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The press of bodies moved aside to reveal the General Secretary and Chief Butt of the Guild of Fools and Joculators. He flinched under the attention, but he generally flinched all the time anyway. He had the look of a man whose face has been Ground Zero for one custard pie too many, whose trousers have been too often awash with whitewash, whose nerves would disintegrate completely at the sound of just one more whoopee-cushion. The other Guild leaders tried to be nice to him, in the same way that people try to be kind to other people who are standing on the ledges of very high buildings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, Geoffrey?" said Ridcully, as kindly as he could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Fool gulped. ‘Well, you see," he mumbled, "we have sharp as in splinters, and retort as in large glass alchemical vessel, and thus we get a pun on "sharp retort" which also means, well, a scathing answer. Sharp retort. You see? It's a play on words. Um. It's not very good, is it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor looked into eyes like two runny eggs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, a pun," he said. "Of course. Hohoho. " He waved a hand encouragingly at the others.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hohoho, " said the Chief Priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hohoho," said the leader of the Assassins' Guild.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hohoho," said the head Alchemist. "And, you know, what makes it even funnier is that it was actually an alembic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what you're telling me," said the Patrician, as considerate hands led the Fool away, "is that none of you are responsible for these events?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave Ridcully a meaningful look as he spoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor was about to answer when his eye was caught by a movement on the Patrician's desk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a little model of the Palace in a glass globe. And next to it was a paperknife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The paperknife was slowly bending.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" said the Patrician.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not us," said Ridcully, his voice hollow. The Patrician followed his gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The knife was already curved like a bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician scanned the sheepish crowd until he found Captain Doxie of the City Guard Day Watch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you do something?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er. Like what, sir? The knife? Er. I suppose I could arrest it for being bent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari threw his hands up in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So! It's not magic! It's not gods! It's not people! What is it? And who's going to stop it? Who am I going to call?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half an hour later the little globe had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one noticed. They never do.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake knew who she was going to call.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You there, One-Man-Bucket?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she ducked, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A reedy and petulant voice oozed out of the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">where have you been I can't move in here!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake bit her lip. Such a direct reply meant her spirit guide was worried. When he didn't have anything on his mind he spent five minutes talking about buffaloes and great white spirits, although if One-Man-Bucket had ever been near white spirit he'd drunk it and it was anyone's guess what he'd do to a buffalo. And he kept putting ‘ums' and ‘hows ‘ into the conversation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What d'you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- there been a catastrophe or something, some kind of ten-second plague?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Don't think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- there's real pressure here, you know. what's hokeing everything up?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- shutupshutupshutup I'm trying to talk to the lady!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- you lot over there, keep the noise down! oh yeaha sez you -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake was aware of other voices trying to drown him out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One-Man-Bucket!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- heathen savage, am I? so you know what this heathen savage says to youa yeah? listen, I've been over here for a hundred years, me! I don't have to take talk like that from someone who's still warm! Tight - that does it, you...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice faded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake set her jaw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice came back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- oh yeah? oh yeaha well, maybe you was big when you was alive, friend, but here and now you're just a bedsheet with holes in it! Oh, so you don't like that, eh -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's going to start fighting again, mum," said Ludmilla, who was curled up by the kitchen stove. "He always calls people "friend" just before he hits them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it sounds as if he's going to fight a lot of people," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right. Go and fetch me a vase. A cheap one, mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is widely suspected, but not generally known, that everything has an associated spirit form which, upon its demise, exists briefly in the draughty gap between the worlds of the living and the dead. This is important.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, not that one. That belonged to your granny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This ghostly survival does not last for long without a consciousness to hold it together, but depending on what you have in mind it can last for just long enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That one'll do. I never liked the pattern."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake took an orange vase with pink peonies on it from her daughter's paws.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you still there, One-Man-Bucket?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- I'll make you regret the day you ever died, you whining -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Catch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She dropped the vase on to the stove. It smashed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment later, there was a sound from the Other Side. If a discorporate spirit had hit another discorporate spirit with the ghost of a vase, it would have sounded just like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- right, said the voice of One-Man-Bucket, and there's more where that came from, OK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Cakes, mother and hairy daughter, nodded at each other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When One-Man-Bucket spoke again, his voice dripped with smug satisfaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- just a bit of an altercation about seniority here, he said. just sorting out a bit of personal space. got a lot of problems here, Mrs. Cake. it's like a waiting room -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a shrill clamour of other disembodied voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- could you get a message, please, to Mr. -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- tell her there's a bag of coins on the ledge up the chimney -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- Agnes is not to have the silverware after what she said about our Molly -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- I didn't have time to feed the cat, could someone go - shutupshutup! That was One-Man-Bucket again. you've got no idea have you? this is ghost talk, is it? feed the cat? whatever happened to ‘I am very happy here, and waiting for you to join me'?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- listen, if anyone else joins us, we'll be standing on one another's heads -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- that's not the point. that's not the point, that's all I'm saying. when you're a spirit, there's things you gotta say. Mrs. Cake?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- you got to tell someone about this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now you all go away," she said. ‘I'm getting one of my headaches."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crystal ball faded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well!" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't going to tell no priests," said Mrs. Cake firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that Mrs. Cake wasn't a religious woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was, as has already been hinted, a very religious woman indeed. There wasn't a temple, church, mosque or small group of standing stones anywhere in the city that she hadn't attended at one time or another, as a result of which she was more feared than an Age of Enlightenment; the mere sight of Mrs. Cake's small fat body on the threshold was enough to stop most priests dead in the middle of their invocation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dead. That was the point. All the religions had very strong views about talking to the dead. And so did Mrs. Cake. They held that it was sinful. Mrs. Cake held that it was only common courtesy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This usually led to a fierce ecclesiastical debate which resulted in Mrs. Cake giving the chief priest what she called ‘a piece of her mind'. There were so many pieces of Mrs. Cake's mind left around the city now that it was quite surprising that there was enough left to power Mrs. Cake but, strangely enough, the more pieces of her mind she gave away the more there seemed to be left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was also the question of Ludmilla. Ludmilla was a problem. The late Mr. Cake, gods rest his soul, had never so much as even whistled at the full moon his whole life, and Mrs. Cake had dark suspicions that Ludmilla was a throwback to the family's distant past in the mountains, or maybe had contracted genetics as a child. She was pretty certain her mother had once alluded circumspectly to the fact that Great-uncle Erasmus sometimes had to eat his meals under the table. Either way, Ludmilla was a decent upright young woman for three weeks in every four and a perfectly well-behaved hairy wolf thing for the rest of the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Priests often failed to see it that way. Since by the time Mrs. Cake fell out with whatever priests were currently moderating between her and the gods, she had usually already taken over the flower arrangements, altar dusting, temple cleaning, sacrificial stone scrubbing, honorary vestigial virgining, hassock repairing and every other vital religious support role by sheer force of personality, her departure resulted in total chaos.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake buttoned up her coat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It won't work," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll try the wizards. They ought to be tole," said Mrs. Cake. She was quivering with self-importance, like a small enraged football.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but you said they never listen," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got to try. Byway, what are you doing out of your room?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, mother. You know I hate that room. There's no need -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be too careful. Supposin' you was to take it into your head to go and chase people's chickens? What would the neighbours say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never felt the least urge to chase a chicken, mother," said Ludmilla wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or run after carts, barkin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's dogs, mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just get back in your room and lock yourself in and get on with some sewing like a good girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know I can't hold the needles properly, mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Try for your mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, mother," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And don't go near the window. We don't want people upset."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, mother. And you make sure you put your premonition on, mum. You know your eyesight isn't what it was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake watched her daughter go upstairs. Then she locked the front door behind her and strode towards Unseen University where, she'd heard, there was too much nonsense of all sorts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyone watching Mrs. Cake's progress along the street would have noticed one or two odd details.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite her erratic gait, no-one bumped into her. They weren't avoiding her, she just wasn't where they were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At one point she hesitated, and stepped into an alleyway. A moment later a barrel rolled off a cart that was unloading outside a tavern and smashed on the cobbles where she would have been. She stepped out of the alley and over the wreckage, grumbling to herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake spent a lot of the time grumbling. Her mouth was constantly moving, as if she was trying to dislodge a troublesome pip from somewhere in the back of her teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached the high black gates of the University and hesitated again, as if listening to some inner voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she stepped aside and waited.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door lay in the darkness of the hayloft and waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Below, he could hear the occasional horsey sounds of Binky - a soft movement, the champ of a jaw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door. So now he had a name. Of course, he'd always had a name, but he'd been named for what he embodied, not for who he was. Bill Door. It had a good solid ring to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr. Bill Door. William Door, Esq. Billy D - no. Not Billy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door eased himself further into the hay. He reached into his robe and pulled out the golden timer. There was, quite perceptibly, less sand in the top bulb. He put it back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was this "sleep". He knew what it was. People did it for quite a lot of the time. They lay down and sleep happened. Presumably it served some purpose. He was watching out for it with interest. He would have to subject it to analysis.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Night drifted across the world, coolly pursued by a new day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a stirring in the henhouse across the yard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cock-a-doo... er."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door stared at the roof of the barn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cock-a-doodle... er."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Grey light was filtering in between the cracks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yet only moments ago there had been the red light of sunset!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six hours had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill hauled out the timer. Yes. The level was definitely down. While he had been waiting to experience sleep, something had stolen part of his... of his life. He'd completely missed it, too -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cock...cock-a...er..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He climbed down from the loft and stepped out into the thin mist of dawn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The elderly chickens watched him cautiously as he peered into their house. An ancient and rather embarrassed-looking cockerel glared at him and shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a clanging noise from the direction of the house. An old iron barrel hoop was hanging by the door, and Miss Flitworth was hitting it vigorously with a ladle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stalked over to investigate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT FOR ARE YOU MAKING THE NOISE, MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She spun around, ladle half-raised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good grief, you must walk like a cat!" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I MUST?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I meant I didn't hear you. " She stood back and looked him up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's still something about you I can't put my finger on, Bill Door," she said. ‘Wish I knew what it was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The seven-foot skeleton regarded her stoically. He felt there was nothing he could say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want for breakfast?" said the old woman. "Not that it'll make any difference, ‘cos it's porridge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Later she thought: he must have eaten it, because the bowl is empty. Why can't I remember?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was the matter of the scythe. He looked at it as if he'd never seen one before. She pointed out the grass nail and the handles. He looked at them politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW DO YOU SHARPEN IT, MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's sharp enough, for goodness sake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW DO YOU SHARPEN IT MORE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't. Sharp's sharp. You can't get sharper than that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd swished it aimlessly, and made a disappointed hissing noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was the grass, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hay meadow was high on the hill behind the farm, overlooking the cornfield. She watched him for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the most interesting technique she had ever witnessed. She wouldn't even have thought that it was technically possible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually she said: "It's good. You've got the swing and everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But why one blade of grass at a time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door regarded the neat row of stalks for some while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE IS ANOTHER WAY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can do lots in one go, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. NO. ONE BLADE AT A TIME. ONE TIME, ONE BLADE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't cut many that way," said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EVERY LAST ONE, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TRUST ME ON THIS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth left him to it and went back to the farm-house. She stood at the kitchen window and watched the distant dark figure for a while, as it moved over the hillside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wonder what he did? she thought. He's got a Past. He's one of them Men of Mystery, I expect. Perhaps he did a robbery and is Lying Low.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He's cut a whole row already. One at a time, but somehow faster than a man cutting swathe by swathe...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth's only reading matter was the Farmer's Almanac and Seed Catalogue, which could last a whole year in the privy if no-one was ill. In addition to sober information about phases of the moon and seed sowings it took a certain grisly relish in recounting the various mass murders, vicious robberies and natural disasters that befell mankind, on the lines of ‘June 15, Year of the Impromptu Stoat: On this Day 150 yrs. since, a Man killed by Freak shower of Goulish in Quirm' or ‘14 die at hands of Chume, the Notorious Herring Thrower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The important thing about all these was that they happened a long way away, possibly by some kind of divine intervention. The only things that usually happened locally were the occasional theft of a chicken, and the occasional wandering troll. Of course, there were also robbers and bandits in the hills but they got on well with the actual residents and were essential to the local economy. Even so, she felt she'd certainly feel safer with someone else about the place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dark figure on the hillside was well into the second row. Behind it, the cut grass withered in the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE FINISHED, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go and feed the pig, then. She's called Nancy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NANCY, said Bill, turning the word around in his mouth as though he was trying to see it from all sides.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After my mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WILL GO AND FEED THE PIG NANCY, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed to Miss Flitworth that mere seconds went by.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE FINISHED, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She squinted at him. Then, slowly and deliberately, she wiped her hands on a cloth, stepped out into the yard and headed for the pigsty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nancy was eyeball-deep in the swill trough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth wondered exactly what comment she should make. Finally she said, "Very good. Very good. You, you, you certainly work... fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH, WHY DOES NOT THE COCKEREL CROW PROPERLY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, that's just Cyril. He hasn't got a very good memory. Ridiculous, isn't it? I wish he'd get it right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door found a piece of chalk in the farm's old smithy, located a piece of board among the debris, and wrote very carefully for some time. Then he wedged the board in front of the henhouse and pointed Cyril towards it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THIS YOU WILL READ he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cyril peered myopically at the ‘Cock-A-Doodle-Doo' in heavy gothic script. Somewhere in his tiny mad chicken mind a very distinct and chilly understanding formed that he'd better learn to read very, very quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door sat back among the hay and thought about the day. It seemed to have been quite a full one. He'd cut hay and fed animals and mended a window. He'd found some old overalls hanging in the barn. They seemed far more appropriate for a Bill Door than a robe woven of absolute darkness, so he'd put them on. And Miss Flitworth had given him a broad-brimmed straw hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he'd ventured the half-mile walk into the town. It wasn't even a one horse town. If anyone had a horse, they'd have eaten it. The residents appeared to make a living by stealing one another's washing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a town square, which was ridiculous. It was really only an enlarged crossroads, with a clock tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was a tavern. He'd gone inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After the initial pause while everyone's mind had refocused to allow him room, they'd been cautiously hospitable; news travels even faster on a vine with few grapes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd be the new man up at Miss Flitworth's," said the barman. "A Mr. Door, I did hear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">CALL ME BILL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah? Used to be a tidy old farm, once upon a time. We never thought the old girl'd stay on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," agreed a couple of old men by the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"New to these parts, then?" said the barman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sudden silence of the other men in the bar was like a black hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOT PRECISELY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Been here before, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">JUST PASSING THROUGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say old Miss Flitworth's a loony," said one of the figures on the benches around the smoke-blackened walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But sharp as a knife, mind," said another hunched drinker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. She's sharp all right. But still a loony."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they say she's got boxes full of treasure in that old parlour of hers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's tight with money, I know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That proves it. Rich folk are always tight with money."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. Sharp and rich. But still a loony."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be loony and rich. You've got to be eccentric if you're rich."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence returned and hovered. Bill Door sought desperately for something to say. He had never been very good at small talk. He'd never had much occasion to use it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What did people say at times like this? Ah. Yes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WILL BUY EVERYONE A DRINK, he announced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Later on they taught him a game that consisted of a table with holes and nets around the edge, and balls carved expertly out of wood, and apparently balls had to bounce off one another and into the holes. It was called Pond. He played it well. In fact, he played it perfectly. At the start, he didn't know how not to. But after he heard them gasp a few times he corrected himself and started making mistakes with painstaking precision; by the time they taught him darts he was getting really good at them. The more mistakes he made, the more people liked him. So he propelled the little feathery darts with cold skill, never letting one drop within a foot of the targets they urged on him. He even sent one ricocheting off a nail head and a lamp so that it landed in someone's beer, which made one of the older men laugh so much he had to be taken outside into the fresh air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd called him Good Old Bill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one had ever called him that before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What a strange evening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had been one bad moment, though. He'd heard a small voice say: "That man is a skelington," and had turned to see a small child in a nightdress watching him over the top of the bar, without terror but with a sort of fascinated horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The landlord, who by now Bill Door knew to be called Lifton, had laughed nervously and apologised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's just her fancy," he said. "The things children say, eh? Get on with you back to bed, Sal. And say you're sorry to Mr. Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a skelington with clothes on," said the child. "Why doesn't all the drink fall through?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd almost panicked. His intrinsic powers were fading, then. People could not normally see him - he occupied a blind spot in their senses, which they filled in somewhere inside their heads with something they preferred to encounter. But the adults' inability to see him clearly wasn't proof against this sort of insistent declaration, and he could feel the puzzlement around him. Then, just in time, its mother had come in from the back room and had taken the child away. There'd been muffled complaints on the lines of ‘ - a skelington, with all bones on -' disappearing around the bend in the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And all the time the ancient clock over the fireplace had been ticking, ticking, chopping seconds off his life. There'd seemed so many of them, not long ago...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a faint knocking at the barn door, below the hayloft. He heard it pushed open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you decent, Bill Door?" said Miss Flitworth's voice in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door analysed the sentence for meaning within context.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES? he ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've brought you a hot milk drink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, quick now. Otherwise it'll go cold."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door cautiously climbed down the wooden ladder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth was holding a lantern, and had a shawl around her shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's got cinnamon on it. My Ralph always liked cinnamon. " She sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was aware of undertones and overtones in the same way that an astronaut is aware of weather patterns below him; they're all visible, all there, all laid out for study and all totally divorced from actual experience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU, he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've really made yourself at home here," she said brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled the shawl around her shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be getting back to the house, then," she said. "You can bring the mug back in the morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sped away into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door took the drink up to the loft. He put it on a low beam and sat and watched it long after it grew cold and the candle had gone out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while he was aware of an insistent hissing. He took out the golden timer and put it right at the other end of the loft, under a pile of hay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It made no difference at all.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons peered at the house numbers - a hundred Counting Pines had died for this street alone -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and then realised he didn't have to. He was being short-sighted out of habit. He improved his eyesight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Number 668 took some while to find because it was in fact on the first floor above a tailor's shop. Entrance was via an alleyway. There was a wooden door at the end of the alley. On its peeling paintwork someone had pinned a notice which read, in optimistic lettering:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come in! Come in!! The Fresh Start Club.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being Dead is only the Beginning!!!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened on to a flight of stairs that smelled of old paint and dead flies. They creaked even more than Windle's knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone had been drawing on the walls. The phraseology was exotic but the general tone was familiar enough: <em class="calibre8">Spooks of the World Arise</em>, <em class="calibre8">You have Nothing to lose but your Chains</em> and <em class="calibre8">The Silent Majority want DeadRights</em> and <em class="calibre8">End vitalism now</em>!?!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the top was a landing, with one door opening off it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once upon a time someone had hung an oil lamp from the ceiling, but it looked as though it had never been lit for thousands of years. An ancient spider, possibly living on the remains of the oil, watched him warily from its eyrie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked at the card again, took a deep breath out of habit, and knocked.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor strode back into College in a fury, with the others trailing desperately behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who is he going to call! We're the wizards around here!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but we don't actually know what's happening, do we?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we're going to find out!" Ridcully growled. ‘I don't know who he's going to call, but I'm damn sure who I'm going to call."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He halted abruptly. The rest of the wizards piled into him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, no," said the Senior Wrangler. "Please, not that!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing to it," said Ridcully. "Nothing to worry about. Read up on it last night, "s'matterofact. You can do it with three bits of wood and -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four cc of mouse blood," said the Senior Wrangler mournfully. "You don't even need that. You can use two bits of wood and an egg. It has to be a fresh egg, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose the mouse feels happier about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I mean the egg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, who knows how an egg feels?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway," said the Dean, "it's dangerous. I've always felt that he only stays in the octogram for the look of the thing. I hate it when he peers at you and seems to be counting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said the Senior Wrangler. "We don't need to do that. We get over most things. Dragons, monsters. Rats. Remember the rats last year? Seemed to be everywhere. Lord Vetinari wouldn't listen to us, oh no. He paid that glib bugger in the red and yellow tights a thousand gold pieces to get rid of ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It worked, though," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course it bloody worked," said the Dean. "It worked in Quirm and Sto Lat as well. He'd have got away with it in Pseudopolis as well if someone hadn't recognised him. Mr. so-called Amazing Maurice and His Educated Rodents!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's no good trying to change the subject," said Ridcully. "We're going to do the Rite of AshKente. Right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And summon Death, " said the Dean. "Oh, dear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing wrong with Death," said Ridcully. "Professional fellow. Job to do. Fair and square. Play a straight bat, no problem. He'll know what's happening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, dear, " said the Dean again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached the gateway. Mrs. Cake stepped forward, blocking the Archchancellor's path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully raised his eyebrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor was not the kind of man who takes a special pleasure in being brusque and rude to women. Or, to put it another way, he was brusque and rude to absolutely everyone, regardless of sex, which was equality of a sort. And if the following conversation had not been taking place between someone who listened to what people said several seconds before they said it, and someone who didn't listen to what people said at all, everything might have been a lot different. Or perhaps it wouldn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake led with an answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not your good woman!" she snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And who are you, my good woman?" said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's no way to talk to a respectable person," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no need to be offended," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh blow, is that what I'm doin'?" said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Madam, why are you answering me before I've even said something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What d'you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stared at one another, fixed in an unbreakable conversational deadlock. Then Mrs. Cake realised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"O I'm prematurely premoniting again," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stuck a finger in her ear and wiggled it around with a squelching noise. "It's all alright now. Now, the reason -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Ridcully had had enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bursar," he said, "give this woman a penny and send her about her business, will you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Mrs. Cake, suddenly enraged beyond belief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's too much of this sort of thing these days," said Ridcully to the Dean, as they strolled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the pressures and stresses of living in a big city," said the Senior Wrangler. "I read that somewhere. It takes people in a funny way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stepped through the wicket gate in one of the big doors and the Dean shut it in Mrs. Cake's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He might not come," said the Senior Wrangler, as they crossed the quadrangle. "He didn't come for poor old Windle's farewell party."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'll come for the Rite," said Ridcully. "It doesn't just send him an invitation, it puts a bloody RSVP on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, good. I like sherry," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, Bursar."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an alley, somewhere in the Shades, which was the most alley-ridden part of an alley-ridden city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something small and shiny rolled into it, and vanished in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while, there were faint metallic noises.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The atmosphere in the Archchancellor's study was very cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually the Bursar quavered: "Maybe he's busy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," said the wizards, in unison.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something was happening. The floor inside the chalked magic octogram was going white with frost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's never done that before," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is all wrong, you know," said the Dean. ‘We should have some candles and some cauldrons and some stuff bubbling in crucibles and some glitter dust and some coloured smoke -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Rite doesn't need any of that stuff," said Ridcully sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It might not need them, but I do," muttered the Dean. "Doing it without the right paraphernalia is like taking all your clothes off to have a bath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I do," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Humph. Well, each to his own, of course, but some of us like to think that we're maintaining standards."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps he's on holiday?" said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes," sneered the Dean. "On a beach somewhere? A few iced drinks and a Kiss Me Quick hat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold on. Hold on. Someone's coming," hissed the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The faint outlines of a hooded figure appeared above the octogram. It wavered constantly, as if it was being seen through superheated air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's him, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No it isn't, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "It's just a grey robe - there's nothing in -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It turned, slowly. It was filled out, suggesting a wearer, but at the same time had a feeling of hollowness, as if it was merely a shape for something with no shape of its own. The hood was empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The emptiness watched the wizards for a few seconds and then focused on the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It said, Who are you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully swallowed. ‘Er. Mustrum Ridcully. Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hood nodded. The Dean stuck a finger in his ear and waggled it around. The robe wasn't talking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing was being heard. It was just that, afterwards, you had a sudden memory of what had just failed to be said and no knowledge of how it had got there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hood said, You are a superior being on this world?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked at the other wizards. The Dean glared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... you know... yes... first among equals and all that sort of thing... yes... " Ridcully managed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, We bring good news.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good news? Good news?" Ridcully squirmed under the gazerless gaze. "Oh, good. That is good news."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, Death has retired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pardon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, Death has retired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh? That is... news... " said Ridcully uncertainly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh. How? Exactly... how?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, We apologise for the recent lapse in standards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lapse?" said the Archchancellor, now totally mystified. "Well, uh. I'm not sure there's been a... I mean, of course the fella was always knockin' around, but most of the time we hardly..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, It has all been most irregular.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It has? Has it? Oh, well, can't have irregularity," said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, It must have been terrible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I... that is... I suppose we... I'm not sure... must it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was told, But now the burden is removed. Rejoice. That is all. There will be a short transitional period before a suitable candidate presents itself, and then normal service will be resumed. In the meantime, we apologise for any unavoidable inconvenience caused by superfluous life effects.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure wavered and began to fade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor waved his hands desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait!" he said. "You can't just go like that! I command you to stay! What service? What does it all mean? Who are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hood turned back towards him and said, We are nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's no help! What is your name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We are oblivion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards fell silent. The frost in the octogram began to sublime back into air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh-oh, " said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Short transitional period? Is that what this is?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The floor shook.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh-oh, " said the Bursar again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That doesn't explain why everything is Living a life of its own," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold on... hold on," said Ridcully, "If people are coming to the end of their life and leaving their bodies and everything, but Death isn't taking them away -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then that means they're queuing up here," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With nowhere to go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not just people," said the Senior Wrangler. "It must be everything. Every thing that dies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Filling up the world with life force," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards were speaking in a monotone, everyone's mind running ahead of the conversation to the distant horror of the conclusion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hanging around with nothing to do," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ghosts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Poltergeist activity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good grief."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hang on, though," said the Bursar, who had managed to catch up with events. "Why should that worry us? We don't have anything to fear from the dead, do we? After all, they're just people who are dead. They're just ordinary people. People like us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards thought about this. They looked at one another. They started to shout, all at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one remembered the bit about suitable candidates.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Belief is one of the most powerful organic forces in the multiverse. It may not be able to move mountains, exactly. But it can create someone who can.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People get exactly the wrong idea about belief. They think it works back to front. They think the sequence is, first object, then belief. In fact, it works the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Belief sloshes around in the firmament like lumps of clay spiralling into a potter's wheel. That's how gods get created, for example. They clearly must be created by their own believers, because a brief resume of the lives of most gods suggests that their origins certainly couldn't be divine. They tend to do exactly the things people would do if only they could, especially when it comes to nymphs, golden showers, and the smiting of your enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Belief creates other things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It created Death. Not death, which is merely a technical term for a state caused by prolonged absence of life, but Death as in the personality. He evolved, as it were, along with life. As soon as a living thing was even dimly aware of the concept of suddenly becoming a non-living thing, there was Death. He was Death long before humans ever considered him; they only added the shape and all the scythe and robe business to a personality that was already millions of years old.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now he had gone. But belief doesn't stop. Belief goes right on believing. And since the focal point of belief had been lost, new points sprang up. Small as yet, not very powerful. The private deaths of every species, no longer united but specific.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the stream, black-scaled, swam the new Death of Mayflies. In the forests, invisible, a creature of sound only, drifted the chop-chop-chop of the Death of Trees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Over the desert a dark and empty shell moved purposefully, half an inch above the ground... the Death of Tortoises.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Humanity hadn't been finished yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Humans can believe some very complex things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's like the difference between off-the-peg and bespoke.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The metallic sounds stopped coming from the alley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was a silence. It was the particularly wary silence of something making no noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, finally, there was a very faint jangling sound, disappearing into the distance.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't stand in the doorway, friend. Don't block up the hall. Come on in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons blinked in the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When his eyes became accustomed to it, he realised that there was a semicircle of chairs in an otherwise rather bare and dusty room. They were all occupied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the centre - at the focus, as it were, of the half circle - was a small table at which someone had been seated. They were now advancing towards him, with their hand out and a big smile on their face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me, let me guess," they said. "You're a zombie, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er." Windle Poons had never seen anyone with such a pallid skin, such as there was of it, before. Or wearing clothes that looked as if they'd been washed in razor blades and smelled as though someone had not only died in them but was still in them. Or sporting a Glad To Be Grey badge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," he said. ‘I suppose so. Only they buried me, you see, and there was this card –" He held it out, Like a shield.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"‘Course there was. ‘Course there was," said the figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He's going to want me to shake hands, Windle thought. If I do, I just know I'm going to end up with more fingers than I started with. Oh, my goodness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Will I end up like that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I'm dead, " he said, lamely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And fed up with being pushed around, eh?" said the greenish-skinned one. Windle shook his hand very carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, not exactly fed -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shoe's the name. Reg Shoe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Poons. Windle Poons," said Windle. "Er -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, it's always the same, " said Reg Shoe bitterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Once you're dead, people just don't want to know, right? They act as if you've got some horrible disease. Dying can happen to anyone, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone, I should have thought," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I know what it's like. Tell someone you're dead and they look at you as if they've seen a ghost,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr. Shoe went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle realised that talking to Mr. Shoe was very much like talking to the Archchancellor. It didn't actually matter what you said, because he wasn't listening. Only, in Mustrum Ridcully's case it was because he just wasn't bothering, while Reg Shoe was in fact supplying your side of the conversation somewhere inside his own head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, right, " said Windle, giving in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We were just finishing off, in fact," said Mr. Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me introduce you. Everyone, this is –" He hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Poons. Windle Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brother Windle," said Mr. Shoe. "Give him a big Fresh Start welcome!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an embarrassed chorus of ‘hallos'. A large and rather hairy young man at the end of the row caught Windle's eye and rolled his own yellow eyes in a theatrical gesture of fellow feeling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is Brother Arthur Winkings -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Count Notfaroutoe, " said a female voice sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Sister Doreen - I mean Countess Notfaroutoe, of course -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Charmed, I'm sure," said the female voice, as the small dumpy woman sitting next to the small dumpyshape of the Count extended a beringed hand. The Count himself gave Windle a worried grin. He seemed to be wearing opera dress designed for a man several sizes larger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Brother Schleppel -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chair was empty. But a deep voice from the darkness underneath it said, "Evenin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Brother Lupine. " The muscular, hairy young man with the long canines and pointy ears gave Windle's hand a hearty shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Sister Drull. And Brother Gorper. And Brother Ixolite."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle shook a number of variations on the theme of hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Brother Ixolite handed him a small piece of yellow paper. On it was written one word: OoooEeeeOoooEeeeOoooEEEee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry there aren't more here tonight," said Mr. Shoe. "I do my best, but I'm afraid some people just don't seem prepared to make the effort."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... dead people?" said Windle, still staring at the note.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apathy, I call it," said Mr. Shoe, bitterly. "How can the movement make progress if people are just going to lie around the whole time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine started making frantic ‘don't get him started' signals behind Mr. Shoe's head, but Windle wasn't able to stop himself in time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What movement?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dead Rights, " said Mr. Shoe promptly. ‘I'll give you one of my leaflets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But, surely, er, dead people don't have rights?" said Windle. In the corner of his vision he saw Lupine put his hand over his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're dead right there, " said Lupine, his face absolutely straight. Mr. Shoe glared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apathy," he repeated. "It's always the same. You do your best for people, and they just ignore you. Do you know people can say what they like about you and take away your property, just because you're dead? And they -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought that most people, when they died, just... you know... died, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's just laziness," said Mr. Shoe. "They just don't want to make the effort."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle had never seen anyone look so dejected. Reg Shoe seemed to shrink several inches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you been undead, Vindle?" said Doreen, with brittle brightness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hardly any time at all, " said Windle, relieved at the change of tone. "I must say it's turning out to be different than I imagined."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You get used to it," said Arthur Winkings, alias Count Notfaroutoe, gloomily. "That's the thing about being undead. It's as easy as falling off a cliff. We're all undead here"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Except Lupine, " said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm more what you might call honorary undead," said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Him being a werewolf, " explained Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought he was a werewolf as soon as I saw him," said Windle, nodding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Every full moon," said Lupine. "Regular."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You start howling and growing hair, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all shook their heads.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, no," said Lupine. "I more sort of stop howling and some of my hair temporarily falls out. It's bloody embarrassing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I thought at the full moon your basic werewolf always -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lupine's problem," said Doreen, "is that he approaches it from ze ozzer way, you see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm technically a wolf," said Lupine. "Ridiculous, really. Every full moon I turn into a wolfman. The rest of the time I'm just a... wolf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good grief," said Windle. "That must be a terrible problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The trousers are the worst part, " said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... they are?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yeah. See, it's all right for human werewolves. They just keep their own clothes on. I mean, they might get a bit ripped, but at least they've got them handy on, right? Whereas if I see the full moon, next minute I'm walking and talking and I'm definitely in big trouble on account of being very deficient in the trousery vicinity. So I have to keep a pair stashed somewhere. Mr. Shoe -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- call me Reg -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- lets me keep a pair where he works."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I work at the mortuary on Elm Street," said Mr. Shoe. "I'm not ashamed. It's worth it to save a brother or sister."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry?" said Windle. "Save?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's me that pins the card on the bottom of the lid," said Mr. Shoe. ‘You never know. It has to be worth a try."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does it often work?" said Windle. He looked around the room. His tone must have suggested that it was a reasonably large room, and had only eight people in it; nine if you included the voice from under the chair, which presumably belonged to a person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doreen and Arthur exchanged glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It vorked for Artore, " said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," said Windle, "I couldn't help wondering... are you two... er... vampires, by any chance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"‘S'right," said Arthur. "More's the pity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! You should not valk like zat," said Doreen haughtily. ‘You should be prout of your noble lineage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Prout?" said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you get bitten by a bat or something?" said Windle quickly, anxious not to be the cause of any family friction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, " said Arthur, "by a lawyer. I got this letter, see? With a posh blob of wax on it and everything. Blahblah-blah... great-great-uncle... blahblahblah... only surviving relative... blahblahblah... may we be the first to offer our heartiest... blahblahblah. One minute I'm Arthur Winkings, a coming man in the wholesale fruit and vegetable business, next minute I find I'm Arthur, Count Notfaroutoe, owner of fifty acres of cliff face a goat'd fall off of and a castle that even the cockroaches have abandoned and an invitation from the burgomaster to drop in down at the village one day and discuss three hundred years of back taxes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hate lawyers, " said the voice from under the chair. It had a sad, hollow sound. Windle tried to move his legs a little closer to his own chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It voss quite a good castle, " said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A bloody heap of mouldering stone is what it was," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It had nice views."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, through every wall, " said Arthur, dropping a portcullis into that avenue of conversation. "I should have known even before we went to look at it. So I turned the carriage around, right? I thought, well, that's four days wasted, right in the middle of our busy season. I don't think any more about it. Next thing, I wake up in the dark, I'm in a box, I finally find these matches, I light one, there's this card six inches from my nose. It said - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" "You Don't Have to Take this Lying Down"," said Mr. Shoe proudly. "That was one of my first ones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It vasn't my fault," said Doreen, stiffly. "You had been lyink rigid for tree dace."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It gave the priest a shock, I can tell you," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh! Priests!" said Mr. Shoe. "They're all the same. Always telling you that you ‘re going to live again after you're dead, but you just try it and see the look on their faces!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't like priests, either, " said the voice from under the chair. Windle wondered if anyone else was hearing it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't forget the look on the Reverend Welegare's face in a hurry, " said Arthur gloomily. "I've been going to that temple for thirty years. I was respected in the community. Now if I even think of setting foot in a religious establishment I get a pain all down my leg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but there was no need for him to say what he said when you pushed the lid off," said Doreen. "And him a priest, too. They shouldn't know those kind of words."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I enjoyed that temple," said Arthur, wistfully. ‘It was something to do on a Wednesday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It dawned on Windle Poons that Doreen had miraculously acquired the ability to use her double-yous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you're a vampire too, Mrs. Win... I do beg your pardon... Countess Notfaroutoe?" he enquired politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Countess smiled. ‘My vord, yes, " she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By marriage," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you do that? I thought you had to be bitten," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice under the chair sniggered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see why I should have to go around biting my wife after thirty years of marriage, and that's flat," said the Count.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Every voman should share her husband's hobbies," said Doreen. "It iss vot keeps a marriage intervesting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who wants an interesting marriage? I never said I wanted an interesting marriage. That's what's wrong with people today, expecting things like marriage to be interesting. And it's not a hobby, anyway," moaned Arthur. ‘This vampiring's not all it's cracked up to be, you know. Can't go out in daylight, can't eat garlic, can't have a decent shave -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why can't you have a -' Windle began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't use a mirror," said Arthur. "I thought the turning-into-a-bat bit would be interesting, but the owls round here are murder. And as for the... you know... with the blood... well... " His voice trailed off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Artore's never been very good at meetink people," said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the worst part is having to wear evening dress the whole time," said Arthur. He gave Doreen a side-ways glance. "I'm sure it's not really compulsory."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It iss very important to maintain standerts," said Doreen. Doreen, in addition to her here-one-minute-and-gone-the-next vampire accent, had decided to complement Arthur's evening dress with what she considered appropriate for a female vampire: figure-hugging black dress, long dark hair cut into a widow's peak, and very pallid makeup. Nature had designed her to be small and plump with frizzy hair and a hearty complexion. There were definite signs of conflict.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should have stayed in that coffin," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, no, " said Mr. Shoe. "That's taking the easy way out. The movement needs people like you, Arthur. We had to set an example. Remember our motto."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which motto is that, Reg?" said Lupine wearily. "We have so many."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Undead yes - unperson no!" Reg said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, he means well," said Lupine, after the meeting had broken up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He and Windle were walking back through the grey dawn. The Notfaroutoes had left earlier to be back home before daylight heaped even more troubles on Arthur, and Mr. Shoe had gone off, he said, to address a meeting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He goes down to the cemetery behind the Temple of Small Gods and shouts," Lupine explained. ‘He calls it consciousness raising but I don't reckon he's on to much of a certainty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who was it under the chair?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was Schleppel," said Lupine. "We think he's a bogeyman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are bogeymen undead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He won't say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've never seen him? I thought bogeymen hid under things and, er, behind things and sort of leapt out at people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's all right on the hiding. I don't think he likes the leaping out, " said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle thought about this. An agoraphobic bogey-man seemed to complete the full set.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fancy that, " he said, vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We only go along to the club to keep Reg happy," said Lupine. "Doreen said it'd break his heart if we stopped. You know the worst bit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes he brings a guitar along and makes us sing songs like "Streets of Ankh-Morpork" and "We Shall Overcome". * It's terrible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't sing, eh?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sing? Never mind sing. Have you ever seen a zombie try to play a guitar? It's helping him find his fingers afterwards that's so embarrassing. " Lupine sighed. "By the way, Sister Drull is a ghoul. If she offers you any of her meat patties, don't accept."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle remembered a vague, shy old lady in a shapeless grey dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, dear," he said. "You mean she makes them out of human flesh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. No. She just can't cook very well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Brother Ixolite is probably the only banshee in the world with a speech impediment, so instead of sitting on roofs and screaming when people are about to die he just writes them a note and slips it under the door-"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle recalled a long, sad face. " He gave me one, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We try to encourage him," said Lupine. "He's very self-conscious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His arm shot out and flung Windle against a wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quiet!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine's ears swivelled. His nostrils flared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Motioning Windle to remain where he was, the wereman slunk silently along the alley until he reached its junction with another, even smaller and nastier one. He paused for a moment, and then thrust a hairy hand around the corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a yelp. Lupine's hand came back holding a struggling mop. Huge hairy muscles moved under Lupine's torn shirt as the man was hoisted up to fang level.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were waiting to attack us, weren't you," said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who, me -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could smell you, " said Lupine, evenly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine sighed. "Wolves don't do this sort of thing, you know, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man dangled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, is that a fact, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all head-on combat, fang against fang, claw against claw," said Lupine. "You don't find wolves lurking behind rocks ready to mug a passing badger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get away?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you like me to tear your throat out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man stared eye to yellow eye. He estimated his chances against a seven-foot man with teeth like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do I get a choice?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My friend here," said Lupine, indicating Windle, "is a zombie -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I don't know about actual zombie, I think you have to eat some sort of fish and root to be a zom -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- and you know what zombies do to people, don't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man tried to nod, even though Lupine's fist was right under his neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeggg, " he managed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, he's going to take a very good look at you, and if he ever sees you again -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I say, hang on," murmured Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- he'll come after you. Won't you, Windle?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh? Oh, yes. That's right. Like a shot, " said Windle, unhappily. "Now run along, there's a good chap. OK?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OggAy," said the prospective mugger. He was thinking: "Is eyes! Ike imlets!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine let go. The man hit the cobbles, gave Windle one last terrified glance, and ran for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, what do zombies do to people?" said Windle. ‘I suppose I'd better know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They tear them apart like a sheet of dry paper, " said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh? Right," said Windle. They strolled on in silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle was thinking: why me? Hundreds of people must die in this city every day. I bet they don't have this trouble. They just shut their eyes and wake up being born as someone else, or in some sort of heaven or, I suppose, possibly some sort of hell. Or they go and feast with the gods in their hall, which has never seemed a particularly great idea - gods are all right in their way, but not the kind of people a decent man would want to have a meal with. The Yen buddhists think you just become very rich. Some of the Klatchian religions say you go to a lovely garden full of young women, which doesn't sound very religious to me...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle found himself wondering how you applied for Klatchian nationality after death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And at that moment the cobblestones came up to meet him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is usually a poetic way of saying that someone fell flat on their face. In this case, the cobblestones really came up to meet him. They fountained up, circled silently in the air above the alley for a moment, and then dropped like stones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle stared at them. So did Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's something you don't often see," said the wereman, after a while. "I don't think I've ever seen stones flying before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or dropping like stones," said Windle. He nudged one with the toe of his boot. It seemed perfectly happy with the role gravity had chosen for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a wizard -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Were a wizard," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were a wizard. What caused all that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it is probably an inexplicable phenomenon," said Windle. ‘There's a lot of them about, for some reason. I wish I knew why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He prodded a stone again. It showed no inclination to move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd better be getting along," said Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's it like, being a wereman?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine shrugged. "Lonely," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't fit in, you see. When I'm a wolf I remember what it's like to be a man, and vice versa. Like... I mean... sometimes... sometimes, right, when I'm wolf-shaped, I run up into the hills... in the winter, you know, when there's a crescent moon in the sky and a crust on the snow and the hills go on for ever... and the other wolves, well, they feel what it's like, of course, but they don't know like I do. To feel and know at the same time. No-one else knows what that's like. No-one else in the whole world could know what that's like. That's the bad part. Knowing there's no-one else..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle became aware of teetering on the edge of a pit of sorrows. He never knew what to say in moments like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine brightened up. "Come to that... what's it like, being a zombie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's OK. It's not too bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See you around," he said, and strode off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The streets were beginning to fill up as the population of Ankh-Morpork began its informal shift change between the night people and the day people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All of them avoided Windle. People didn't bump into a zombie if they could help it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached the University gates which were now open, and made his way to his bedroom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd need money, if he was moving out. He'd saved quite a lot over the years. Had he made a will? He'd been fairly confused the past ten years or so. He might have made one. Had he been confused enough to leave all his money to himself? He hoped so. There'd been practically no known cases of anyone successfully challenging their own will -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He levered up the floorboard by the end of his bed, and lifted out a bag of coins. He remembered he'd been saving up for his old age.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was his diary. It was a five-year diary, he recalled, so in a technical sense Windle had wasted about - he did a quick calculation - yes, about three-fifths of his money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or more, when you came to think about it. After all, there wasn't much on the pages. Windle hadn't done anything worth writing down for years, or at least anything he'd been able to remember by the evening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were just phases of the moon, lists of religious festivals, and the occasional sweet stuck to a page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something else down there under the floor, too. He fumbled around in the dusty space and found a couple of smooth spheres. He pulled them out and stared at them, mystified. He shook them, and watched the tiny snowfalls. He read the writing, noting how it wasn't so much writing as a drawing of writing. He reached down and picked up the third object; it was a little bent metal wheel. Just one little metal wheel. And, beside it, a broken sphere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle stared at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, he had been a bit non-compos mentis in his last thirty years or so, and maybe he'd worn his underwear outside his clothes and dribbled a bit, but... he'd collected souvenirs? And little wheels?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a cough behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle dropped the mysterious objects back into the hole and looked around. The room was empty, but there seemed to be a shadow behind the open door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A deep, rumbling, but very diffident voice said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"S'only me, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle wrinkled his forehead with the effort of recollection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Schleppel?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The bogeyman?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Behind my door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a friendly door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle walked over to the door and gingerly shut it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was nothing behind it but old plaster, although he did fancy that he felt an air movement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm under the bed now, Mr. Poons," said Schleppel's voice from, yes, under the bed. "You don't mind, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, no. I suppose not. But shouldn't you be in a closet somewhere? That's where bogeymen used to hide when I was a lad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A good closet is hard to find, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle sighed. "All right. The underside of the bed's yours. Make yourself at home, or whatever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd prefer going back to lurking behind the door, Mr. Poons, if it's all the same to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you mind shutting your eyes a moment?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle obediently shut his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another movement of air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can look now, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle opened his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gosh," said Schleppel's voice, "you've even got a coat hook and everything behind here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle watched the brass knobs on the end of his bedstead unscrew themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A tremor shook the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's going on, Schleppel?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Build up of life force, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean you-now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. Hey, wow, there's a lock and a handle and a brass finger plate and everything behind here -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, a build up of life force?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- and the hinges, there's a really good rising butts here, never had a door with -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Schleppel!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just life force, Mr. Poons. You know. It's a kind of force what you get in things that are alive? I thought you wizards knew about this sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons opened his mouth to say something like ‘Of course we do," before proceeding diplomatically to find out what the hell the bogeyman was talking about, and then remembered that he didn't have to act like that now. That's what he would have done if he was alive, but despite what Reg Shoe proclaimed, it was quite hard to be proud when you were dead. A bit stiff, perhaps, but not proud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never heard of it," he said. "What's it building up for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know. Very unseasonal. It ought to be dying down around now," said Schleppel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The floor shook again. Then the loose floorboard that had concealed Windle's little fortune creaked, and started to put out shoots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, unseasonal?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You get a lot of it in the spring," said the voice from behind the door. "Shoving the daffodils up out of the ground and that kind of stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never heard of it, " said Windle, fascinated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you wizards knew everything about everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked at his wizarding hat. Burial and tunnelling had not been kind to it, but after more than a century of wear it hadn't been the height of haute couture to start with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always something new to learn, " he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was another day. Cyril the cockerel stirred on his perch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chalked words glowed in the half light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He concentrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dock-a-loodle-fod!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now that the memory problem was solved, there was only the dyslexia to worry about.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Up in the high fields the wind was strong and the sun was close and strong. Bill Door strode back and forth through the stricken grass of the hillside like a shuttle across a green weave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wondered if he'd ever felt wind and sunlight before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes, he'd felt them, he must have done. But he'd never experienced them like this; the way wind pushed at you, the way the sun made you hot. The way you could feel Time passing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Carrying you with it.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a timid knocking at the barn door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on down here, Bill Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He climbed down in the darkness and opened the door cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth was shielding a candle with one hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um. " she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM SORRY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can come into the house, if you like. For the evening. Not for the night, of course. I mean, I don't like to think of you all alone out here of an evening, when I've got a fire and everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was no good at reading faces. It was a skill he'd never needed. He stared at Miss Flitworth's frozen, worried, pleading smile like a baboon looking for meaning in the Rosetta Stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THANK YOU, he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scuttled off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he arrived at the house she wasn't in the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He followed a rustling, scraping noise out into a narrow hallway and through a low doorway. Miss Flitworth was down on her hands and knees in the little room beyond, feverishly lighting the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up, flustered, when he rapped politely on the open door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hardly worth putting a match to it for one," she mumbled, by way of embarrassed explanation. "Sit down. I'll make us some tea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door folded himself into one of the narrow chairs by the fire, and looked around the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an unusual room. Whatever its functions were, being lived in wasn't apparently one of them. Whereas the kitchen was a sort of roofed over outside space and the hub of the farm's activities, this room resembled nothing so much as a mausoleum.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Contrary to general belief, Bill Door wasn't very familiar with funereal decor. Deaths didn't normally take place in tombs, except in rare and unfortunate cases. The open air, the bottoms of rivers, halfway down sharks, any amount of bedrooms, yes - tombs, no.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His business was the separation of the wheatgerm of the soul from the chaff of the mortal body, and that was usually concluded long before any of the rites associated with, when you got right down to it, a reverential form of garbage disposal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But this room looked like the tombs of those kings who wanted to take it all with them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door sat with his hands on his knees, looking around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">First, there were the ornaments. More teapots than one might think possible. China dogs with staring eyes. Strange cake stands. Miscellaneous statues and painted plates with cheery little messages on them: A Present from Quirm, Long Life and Happiness. They covered every flat surface in a state of total democracy, so that a rather valuable antique silver candlestick was next to a bright coloured china dog with a bone in its mouth and an expression of culpable idiocy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pictures hid the walls. Most of them were painted in shades of mud and showed depressed cattle standing on wet moorland in a fog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact the ornaments almost concealed the furniture, but this was no loss. Apart from two chairs groaning under the weight of accumulated antimacassars, the rest of the furniture seemed to have no use whatsoever apart from supporting ornaments. There were spindly tables everywhere. The floor was layered in rag rugs. Someone had really liked making rag rugs. And, above all, and around all, and permeating all, was the smell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It smelled of long, dull afternoons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On a cloth-draped sideboard were two small wooden chests flanking a larger one. They must be the famous boxes full of treasure, he thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He became aware of ticking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a clock on the wall. Someone had once had what they must have thought was the jolly idea of making  a clock like an owl. When the pendulum swung, the owl's eyes went backwards and forwards in what the seriously starved of entertainment probably imagined was a humorous way. After a while. your own eyes started to oscillate in sympathy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth bustled in with a loaded tray. There was a blur of activity as she performed the alchemical ceremony of making tea, buttering scones, arranging biscuits, hooking sugar tongs on the basin...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat back. Then, as if she had been in a state of repose for twenty minutes, she trilled slightly breathlessly: "Well... isn't this nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't often have occasion to open up the parlour these days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not since I lost my dad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a moment Bill Door wondered if she'd lost the late Mr. Flitworth in the parlour. Perhaps he'd taken a wrong turning among the ornaments. Then he recalled the funny little ways humans put things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He used to sit in that very chair, reading the almanac."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door searched his memory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A TALL MAN, he ventured. WITH A MOUSTACHE? MISSING THE TIP OF THE LITTLE FINGER ON HIS LEFT HAND?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth stared at him over the top of her cup.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You knew him?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THINK I MET HIM ONCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He never mentioned you," said Miss FIitworth archly. ‘"Not by name. Not as Bill Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T THINK HE WOULD HAVE MENTIONED ME, said Bill Door slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right," said Miss Flitworth. "I know all about it. Dad used to do a bit of smuggling, too. Well, this isn't a big farm. It's not what you'd call a living. He always said a body has to do what it can. I expect you were in his line of business. I've been watching you. That was your business, right enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door thought deeply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GENERAL TRANSPORTATION, he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That sounds like it, yes. Have you got any family, Bill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A DAUGHTER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M AFRAID WE'VE LOST TOUCH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a shame," said Miss Flitworth, and sounded as though she meant it. ‘We used to have some good times here in the old days. That was when my young man was alive, of course."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU HAVE A SON? said Bill, who was losing track.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave him a sharp look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I invite you to think hard about the word "Miss"," she said. "We takes things like that seriously in these parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MY APOLOGIES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Rufus was his name. He was a smuggler, like dad. Not as good, though. I got to admit that. He was more artistic. He used to give me all sorts of things from foreign parts, you know. Bits of jewelry and suchlike. And we used to go dancing. He had very good calves, I remember. I like to see good legs on a man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the fire for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See... he never come back one day. Just before we were going to be wed. Dad said he never should have tried to run the mountains that close to winter, but I know he wanted to do it so's he could bring me a proper present. And he wanted to make some money and impress dad, because dad was against -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She picked up the poker and gave the fire a more ferocious jab than it deserved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, some folk said he ran away to Farferee or Ankh-Morpork or somewhere, but I know he wouldn't have done something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The penetrating look she gave Bill Door nailed him to the chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think, Bill Door?" she said sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt quite proud of himself for spotting the question within the question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH, THE MOUNTAINS CAN BE VERY TREACHEROUS IN THE WINTER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked relieved. ‘That's what I've always said," she said. "And do you know what, Bill Door? Do you know what I thought?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was the day before we were going to be wed, like I said. And then one of his pack ponies came back by itself and then the men went and found the avalanche... and you know what I thought? I thought, that's ridiculous. That's stupid. Terrible, isn't it? Oh, I thought other things afterwards, naturally, but the first thing was that the world shouldn't act as if it was some kind of book. Isn't that a terrible thing to have thought?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I MYSELF HAVE NEVER TRUSTED DRAMA, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wasn't really listening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I thought, what life expects me to do now is moon around the place in the wedding dress for years and go completely doodly. That's what it wants me to do. Hah! Oh, yes! So I put the dress in the ragtag and we still invited everyone to the wedding breakfast, because it's a crime to let good food go to waste."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She attacked the fire again, and then gave him another megawatt stare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it's always very important to see what's really real and what isn't, don't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO YOU MIND IF I STOP THE CLOCK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced up at the boggle-eyed owl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM AFRAID IT GETS ON MY NERVES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not very loud, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door wanted to say that every tick was like the hammering of iron clubs on bronze pillars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">H'S JUST RATHER ANNOYING, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, stop it if you want to, I'm sure. I only keep it wound up for the company."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door got up thankfully, stepped gingerly through the forest of ornaments, and grabbed the pinecone shaped pendulum. The wooden owl glared at him and the ticking stopped at least in the realm of common sound. He was aware that, elsewhere, the pounding of Time continued none the less. How could people endure it? They allowed Time in their houses, as though it was a fiend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat down again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth had started to knit, ferociously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fire rustled in the grate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door leaned back in the chair and stared at the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your horse enjoying himself?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PARDON?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your horse. He seems to be enjoying himself in the meadow," prompted Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH. YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Running around as if he's never seen grass before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HE LIKES GRASS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you like animals. I can tell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door nodded. His reserves of small talk, never very liquid, had dried up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat silently for the next couple of hours, hands gripping the arms of the chair, until Miss Flitworth announced that she was going to bed. Then he went back to the barn, and slept.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door hadn't been aware of it coming. But there it was, a grey figure floating in the darkness of the barn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somehow it had got hold of the golden timer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him, Bill Door, there has been a mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glass shattered. Fine golden seconds glittered in the air, for a moment, and then settled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It told him, Return. You have work to do. There has been a mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure faded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door nodded. Of course there had been a mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyone could see there had been a mistake. He'd known all along it had been a mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tossed the overalls in a corner and took up the robe of absolute blackness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, it had been an experience. And, he had to admit, one that he didn't want to relive. He felt as though a huge weight had been removed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Was that what it was really like to be alive? The feeling of darkness dragging you forward?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How could they live with it? And yet they did, and even seemed to find enjoyment in it, when surely the only sensible course would be to despair. Amazing. To feel you were a tiny living thing, sandwiched between two cliffs of darkness. How could they stand to be alive?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Obviously it was something you had to be born to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death saddled his horse and rode out and up over the fields. The corn rippled far below, like the sea. Miss Flitworth would have to find someone else to help her gather in the harvest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was odd. There was a feeling there. Regret? Was that it? But it was Bill Door's feeling, and Bill Door was... dead. Had never lived. He was his old self again, safe where there were no feelings and no regrets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Never any regrets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now he was in his study, and that was odd, because he couldn't quite remember how he'd got there. One minute on horseback, the next in the study, with its ledgers and timers and instruments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it was bigger than he remembered. The walls lurked on the edge of sight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was Bill Door's doing. Of course it would seem big to Bill Door. and there was probably just a bit of him still hanging on. The thing to do was keep busy. Throw himself into his work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were already some lifetimers on his desk. He didn't remember putting them there, but that didn't matter, the important thing was to get on with the job...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the nearest one, and read the name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lod-a-foodle-wok!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth sat up in bed. On the edge of dreams she'd heard another noise, which must have woken the cockerel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She fiddled with a match until she got a candle alight, and then felt under the bed and her fingers found the hilt of a cutlass that had been much employed by the late Mr. Flitworth during his business trips across the mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried down the creaking stairs and out into the chill of the dawn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hesitated at the barn door, and then pulled it open just enough to slip inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a rustle in the hay, and then an alert silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you call out? I'm sure I heard someone shout my name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another rustle, and Bill Door's head appeared over the edge of the loft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Who did you expect? Are you all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ER. YES. YES, I BELIEVE SO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sure you're all right? You woke up Cyril."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. YES. IT WAS JUST A - I THOUGHT THAT - YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blew out the candle. There was already enough pre-dawn light to see by.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, if you're sure... Now I'm up I may as well put the porridge on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door lay back on the hay until he felt he could trust his legs to carry him, and then climbed down and tottered across the yard to the farmhouse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said nothing while she ladled porridge into a bowl in front of him. and drowned it with cream. Finally, he couldn't contain himself any longer. He didn't know how to ask the  questions, but he really needed the answers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT IS IT... IN THE NIGHT... WHEN YOU SEE THINGS, BUT THEY ARE NOT THE REAL THINGS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood, porridge pot in one hand and ladle in the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean dreaming?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IS THAT WHAT DREAMING IS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you dream? I thought everyone dreamed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ABOUT THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO HAPPEN?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's premonitions, that is. I've never believed in ‘em myself. You're not telling me you don't know what dreams are?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. NO. OF COURSE NOT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's worrying you, Bill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SUDDENLY KNOW THAT WE ARE GOING TO DIE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched him thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, so does everyone," she said. "And that's what you've been dreaming about, is it? Everyone feels like this sometimes. I wouldn't worry about it, if I was you. The best thing to do is keep busy and act cheerful, I always say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT WE WILL COME TO AN END!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I don't know about that," said Miss Flitworth. "It all depends on what kind of life you've led. I suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M SORRY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you a religious man?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU MEAN THAT WHAT HAPPENS TO YOU WHEN YOU DIE IS WHAT YOU BELIEVE WILL HAPPEN?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It would be nice if that was the case, wouldn't it?" she said brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT, YOU SEE, I KNOW WHAT I BELIEVE. I BELIEVE... NOTHING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We are gloomy this morning, aren't we?" said Miss Flitworth. "Best thing you could do right now is finish off that porridge. It's good for you. They say it builds healthy bones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked down at the bowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">CAN I HAVE SOME MORE?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door spent the morning chopping wood. It was pleasantly monotonous. Get tired. That was important. He must have slept before last night, but he must have been so tired that he didn't dream. And he was determined not to dream again. The axe rose and fell on the logs like clockwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No! Not like clockwork!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth had several pots on the stove when he came in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT SMELLS GOOD, Bill volunteered. He reached for a wobbling pot lid. Miss Flitworth spun around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't touch it! You don't want that stuff! It's for the rats."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO RATS NOT FEED THEMSELVES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You bet they do. That's why we're going to give them a little extra something before the harvest. A few dollops of this around the holes and - no more rats."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took a little while for Bill Door to put two and two together, but when this took place it was like megaliths mating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT IS POISON?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Essence of spikkle, mixed with oatmeal. Never fails."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND THEY DIE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Instantly. Straight over and legs in the air. We're having bread and cheese," she added. "I ain't doing big cooking twice in one day, and we're having chicken tonight. Talking of chicken, in fact... come on..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took a cleaver off the rack and went out into the yard. Cyril the cockerel eyed her suspiciously from the top of the midden. His harem of fat and rather elderly hens, who had been scratching up the dust, bounded unsteadily towards Miss Flitworth in the broken-knicker-elastic run of hens everywhere. She reached down quickly and picked one up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It regarded Bill Door with bright, stupid eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know how to pluck a chicken?" said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill looked from her to the hen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT WE FEED THEM, he said helplessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. And then they feed us. This one's been off lay for months. That's how it goes in the chicken world. Mr. Flitworth used to wring their necks but I never got the knack of that; the cleaver's messy and they run around a bit afterwards, but they're dead all right, and they know it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door considered his options. The chicken had focused one beady eye on him. Chickens are a lot more stupid than humans, and don't have the sophisticated mental filters that prevent them seeing what is truly there. It knew where it was and who was looking at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked into its small and simple life and saw the last few seconds pouring away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd never killed. He'd taken life, but only when it was finished with. There was a difference between theft and stealing by finding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOT THE CLEAVER, he said wearily. GIVE ME THE CHICKEN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned his back for a moment, then handed the limp body to Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well done. " she said, and went back to the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door felt Cyril's accusing gaze on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his hand. A tiny spot of light hovered over his palm. He blew on it, gently, and it faded away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After lunch they put down the rat poison. He felt like a murderer.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A lot of rats died.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in the runs under the barn - in the deepest one, one tunnelled long ago by long-forgotten ancestral rodents - something appeared in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed to have difficulty deciding what shape it was going to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It began as a lump of highly-suspicious cheese. This didn't seem to work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it tried something that looked very much like a small, hungry terrier. This was also rejected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a moment it was a steel-jawed trap. This was clearly unsuitable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It cast around for fresh ideas and much to its surprise one arrived smoothly, as if travelling from no distance at all. Not so much a shape as a memory of a shape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It tried it and found that, while totally wrong for the job, in some deeply satisfying way it was the only shape it could possibly be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It went to work.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">That evening the men were practising archery on the green. Bill Door had carefully ensured a local reputation as the worst bowman in the entire history of toxophily; it had never occurred to anyone that putting arrows through the hats of bystanders behind him must logically take a lot more skill than merely sending them through a quite large target a mere fifty yards away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was amazing how many friends you could make by being bad at things, provided you were bad enough to be funny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So he was allowed to sit on a bench outside the inn, with the old men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next door, smoke poured from the chimney of the village smithy and spiralled up into the dusk. There was a ferocious hammering from behind its closed doors. Bill Door wondered why the smithy was always shut. Most smiths worked with their doors open, so that their forge became an unofficial village meeting room. This one was keen on his work -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo, skelington."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swivelled round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The small child of the house was watching him with the most penetrating gaze he had ever seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are a skelington, aren't you," she said. ‘l can tell, because of the bones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU ARE MISTAKEN, SMALL CHILD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are. People turn into skelingtons when they're dead. They're not supposed to walk around afterwards."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HA. HA. HA. WILL YOU HARK AT THE CHILD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you walking around, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked at the old men. They appeared engrossed in the sport.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, he said desperately, IF YOU WILL GO AWAY, I WILL GIVE YOU A HALF-PENNY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a skelington mask for when we go trickle-treating on Soul Cake Night," she said. "It's made of paper. You get given sweets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door made the mistake millions of people had tried before with small children in slightly similar circumstances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He resorted to reason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LOOK, he said, IF I WAS REALLY A SKELETON, LITTLE GIRL, I'M SURE THESE OLD GENTLEMEN HERE WOULD HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY ABOUT IT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She regarded the old men at the other end of the bench.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're nearly skelingtons anyway," she said. "l shouldn't think they'd want to see another one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE TO ADMIT THAT YOU ARE RIGHT ON THAT POINT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't you fall to bits?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T KNOW. I NEVER HAVE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen skelingtons of birds and things and they all fall to bits."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PERHAPS IT IS BECAUSE THEY ARE WHAT SOMETHING WAS. WHEREAS THIS IS WHAT I AM.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The apothecary who does medicine over in Chambly's got a skelington on a hook with all wire to hold the bones together," said the child, with the air of one imparting information gained after diligent research.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T HAVE WIRES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a difference between alive skelingtons and dead ones?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a dead skelington he's got then, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was inside someone?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ur. Yuk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The child stared distantly at the landscape for a while and then said, "I've got new socks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can look, if you like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A grubby foot was extended for inspection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WELL, WELL. FANCY THAT. NEW SOCKS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My mum knitted them out of sheep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MY WORD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The horizon was given another inspection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"D'you know," she said, "d'you know... it's Friday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I found a spoon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door found he was waiting expectantly. He was not familiar with people who had an attention span of less than three seconds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You work along of Miss Flitworth's?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My dad says you've got your feet properly under the table there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door couldn't think of an answer to this because he didn't know what it meant. It was one of those many flat statements humans made that were really just a disguise for something more subtle which was often conveyed merely by the tone of voice or a look in the eyes, neither of which was being done by the child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My dad says she said she's got boxes of treasure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HAS SHE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got tuppence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MY GOODNESS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sal!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both looked up as Mrs. Lifton appeared on the doorstep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bedtime for you. Stop worrying Mr. Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, I ASSURE YOU SHE IS NOT -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Say goodnight, now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do skelingtons go to sleep? They can't close their eyes because -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard their voices, muffled, inside the inn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mustn't call Mr. Door that just because... he's... very... he's very thin..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right. He's not the dead sort."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Lifton's voice had the familiar worried tones of someone who can't bring themselves to believe the evidence of their own eyes. "Perhaps he's just been very ill."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should think he's just about been as ill as he can be ever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door walked back home thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a light on in the farmhouse kitchen, but he went straight to the barn, climbed the ladder to the hay-loft, and lay down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could put off dreaming, but he couldn't escape remembering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while he was aware of the pattering of feet. He turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A stream of pale rat-shaped ghosts skipped along the roof beam above his head, fading as they ran so that soon there was nothing but the sound of the scampering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were followed by a... shape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was about six inches high. It wore a black robe. It held a small scythe in one skeletal paw. A bone-white nose with brittle grey whiskers protruded from the shadowy hood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door reached out and picked it up. It didn't resist, but stood on the palm of his hand and eyed him as one professional to another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door said: AND YOU ARE -?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I REMEMBER, said Bill Door, WHEN YOU WERE A PART OF ME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats squeaked again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door fumbled in the pockets of his overall. He'd put some of his lunch in there. Ah, yes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I EXPECT, he said, THAT YOU COULD MURDER A PIECE OF CHEESE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats took it graciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door remembered visiting an old man once - only once - who had spent almost his entire life locked in a cell in a tower for some alleged crime or other, and had tamed little birds for company during his life sentence. They crapped on his bedding and ate his food, but he tolerated them and smiled at their flight in and out of the high barred windows. Death had wondered, at the time, why anyone would do something like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WON'T DELAY YOU, he said. I EXPECT YOU'VE GOT THINGS TO DO. RATS TO SEE. I KNOW HOW IT IS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now he understood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put the figure back on the beam, and lay down in the hay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DROP IN ANY TIME YOU'RE PASSING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door stared at the darkness again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sleep. He could feel her prowling around. Sleep, with a pocketful of dreams.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lay in the darkness and fought back.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth's shouting jolted him upright and, to his momentary relief still went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The barn door slammed open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill! Come down quick!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swung his legs on to the ladder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT IS HAPPENING. MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something's on fire!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They ran across the yard and out on to the road. The sky over the village was red.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT IT IS NOT OUR FIRE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's going to be everyone's! It spreads like crazy on thatch!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached the apology for a town square. The inn was already well alight, the thatch roaring starwards in a million twisting sparks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at everyone standing around," snarled Miss Flitworth. "There's the pump, buckets are everywhere, why don't people think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a scuffle a little way away as a couple of his customers tried to stop Lifton from running into the building. He was screaming at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The girl's still in there," said Miss Flitworth. "Is that what he said?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Flames curtained every upper window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's got to be some way," said Miss Flitworth. ‘Maybe we could find a ladder -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WE SHOULD NOT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? We've got to try. We can't leave people in there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU DON'T UNDERSTAND, said Bill Door. TO TINKER WITH THE FATE OF ONE INDIVIDUAL COULD DESTROY THE WHOLE WORLD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth looked at him as if he had gone mad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind of garbage is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I MEAN THAT THERE IS A TIME FOR EVERYONE TO DIE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared. Then she drew her hand back, and gave him a ringing slap across the face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was harder than she'd expected. She yelped and sucked at her knuckles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You leave my farm tonight, Mr. Bill Door," she growled. "Understand?" Then she turned on her heel and ran towards the pump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some of the men had brought long hooks to drag the burning thatch off the roof. Miss Flitworth organised a team to get a ladder up to one of the bedroom windows but, by the time a man was persuaded to climb it behind the steaming protection of a damp blanket, the top of the ladder was already smouldering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door watched the flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached into his pocket and pulled out the golden timer. The firelight glowed redly on the glass. He put it away again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Part of the roof fell in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked down. A small robed figure marched between his legs and strutted into the flaming doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone was yelling something about barrels of brandy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door reached back into his pocket and took out the timer again. Its hissing drowned out the roar of the flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The future flowed into the past, and there was a lot more past than there was future, but he was struck by the fact that what it flowed through all the time was now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He replaced it carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death knew that to tinker with the fate of one individual could destroy the whole world. He knew this. The knowledge was built into him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To Bill Door, he realised, it was so much horse elbows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, DAMN, he said. And walked into the fire.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um. It's me, Librarian," said Windle, trying to shout through the keyhole. "Windle Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried hammering some more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why won't he answer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know, " said a voice behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Schleppel?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you behind me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got to be behind something, Mr. Poons. That's what being a bogeyman is all about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Librarian?" said Windle, hammering some more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why won't you let me in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I need to look something up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, yes. I am. What's that got to do with it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's - that's unfair!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's he saying, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He won't let me in because I'm dead!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's typical. That's the sort of thing Reg Shoe is always going on about, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there anyone else that knows about life force?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always Mrs. Cake, I suppose. But she's a bit weird."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's Mrs. Cake?" Then Windle realised what Schleppel had just said. "Anyway, you're a bogeyman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never heard of Mrs. Cake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't suppose she's interested in magic... Anyway, Mr. Shoe says we shouldn't talk to her. She exploits dead people, he says."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a medium. Well, more a small."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really? All right, let's go and see her. And... Schleppel?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's creepy, feeling you standing behind me the whole time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I get very upset if I'm not behind something, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you lurk behind something else?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you suggest, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle thought about it. "Yes, it might work," he said quietly, "if I can find a screwdriver."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo the gardener was on his knees mulching the dahlias when he heard a rhythmic scraping and thumping behind him, such as might be made by someone trying to move a heavy object.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"‘Evening, Mr. Poons. Still dead, I see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Evening, Modo. You've got the place looking very nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's someone moving a door along behind you," Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door edged cautiously along the path. As it passed Modo it pivoted awkwardly, as if whoever was carrying it was trying to keep as much behind it as possible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a kind of security door, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused. There was something wrong. He couldn't quite be certain what it was, but there was suddenly a lot of wrongness about, like hearing one note out of tune in an orchestra. He audited the view in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that you're putting the weeds into?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo glanced at the thing beside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good, isn't it?" he said. "I found it by the compost heaps. My wheelbarrow'd broke, and I looked up, and there -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never seen anything like it before," said Windle. "Who'd want to make a big basket out of wire? And those wheels don't look big enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it pushes along well by the handle, " said Modo. ‘I'm amazed that anyone would want to throw it away. Why would anyone want to throw away something like this, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle stared at the trolley. He couldn't escape the feeling that it was watching him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard himself say, "Maybe it got there by itself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right, Mr. Poons! It wanted a bit of peace, I expect!" said Modo. "You are a one!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Windle, unhappily. "It rather looks that way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped out into the city, aware of the scraping and thumping of the door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If someone had told me a month ago, he thought, that a few days after I died I'd be walking along the road followed by a bashful bogeyman hiding behind a door... why, I'd have laughed at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, I wouldn't. I'd have said ‘eh?" and ‘what?" and ‘speak up!" and wouldn't have understood anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Beside him, someone barked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dog was watching him. It was a very large dog. In fact, the only reason it could be called a dog and not a wolf was that everyone knew you didn't get wolves in cities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It winked. Windle thought: no full moon last night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lupine?" he ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dog nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you talk?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dog shook its head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what do you do now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Want to come with me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another shrug that almost vocalised the thought: why not? What else have I got to do?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If someone had told me a month ago, Windle thought, that a few days after I died I'd be walking along the road followed by a bashful bogeyman hiding behind a door and accompanied by a kind of negative version of a werewolf... why, I probably would have laughed at them. After they'd repeated themselves a few times, of course. In a loud voice.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats rounded up the last of his clients, many of whom had been in the thatch, and led the way through the flames towards wherever it was that good rats went.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was surprised to pass a burning figure forcing its way through the incandescent mess of collapsed beams and crumbling floorboards. As it mounted the blazing stairs it removed something from the disintegrating remains of its clothing and held it carefully in its teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats did not wait to see what happened next. While it was, in some respects, as ancient as the first proto-rat, it was also less than a day old and still feeling its way as a Death, and it was possibly aware that a deep, thumping noise that was making the building shake was the sound of brandy starting to boil in its barrels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing about boiling brandy is that it doesn't boil for long.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The fireball dropped bits of the inn half a mile away. White-hot flames erupted from the holes where the doors and windows had been. The walls exploded. Burning rafters whirred overhead. Some buried themselves in neighbouring roofs, starting more fires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was left was just an eye-watering glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then little pools of shadow within the glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They moved and ran together and formed the shape of a tall figure striding forward, carrying something in front of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It passed through the blistered crowd and trudged up the cool dark road towards the farm. The people picked themselves up and followed it, moving through the dusk like the tail of a dark comet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door climbed the stairs to Miss Flitworth's bedroom and laid the child on the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SHE SAID THERE WAS AN APOTHECARY SOMEWHERE NEAR HERE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth pushed her way through the crowd at the top of the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's one in Chambly," she said. "But there's a witch over Lancrew -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO WITCHES. NO MAGIC. SEND FOR HIM. AND EVERYONE ELSE, GO AWAY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a suggestion. It wasn't even a command. It was simply an irrefutable statement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth waved her skinny arms at the people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, it's all over! Shoo! You're all in my bedroom! Go on, get out!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How'd he do it?" said someone at the back of the crowd. "No-one could have got out of there alive! We saw it all blow up!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door turned around slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WE HID, he said, IN THE CELLAR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There! See?" said Miss Flitworth. "In the cellar. Makes sense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But the inn hasn't got –" the doubter began, and stopped. Bill Door was glaring at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the cellar," he corrected himself. ‘Yeah. Right. Clever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very clever," said Miss Flitworth. ‘Now get along with the lot of you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard her shoo them down the stairs and back into the night. The door slammed. He didn't hear her come back up the stairs with a bowl of cold water and a flannel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth could walk lightly, too, when she had a mind to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She came in and shut the door behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her parents'll want to see her," she said. "Her mum's in a faint and Big Henry from the mill knocked her dad out when he tried to run into the flames, but they'll be here directly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She bent down and ran the flannel over the girl's forehead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where was she?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SHE WAS HIDING IN A CUPBOARD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"From a fire?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm amazed you could find anyone in all that heat and smoke," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SUPPOSE YOU WOULD CALL IT A KNACK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And not a mark on her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door ignored the question in her voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DID YOU SEND SOMEONE FOR THE APOTHECARY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HE MUST NOT TAKE ANYTHING AWAY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">STAY HERE WHEN HE COMES. YOU MUST NOT TAKE ANYTHING OUT OF THIS ROOM.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's silly. Why should he take anything? What would he want to take?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S VERY IMPORTANT. AND NOW I MUST LEAVE YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are you going?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TO THE BARN. THERE ARE THINGS I MUST DO. THERE MAY NOT BE MUCH TIME NOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth stared at the small figure on the bed. She felt far out of her depth, and all she could do was tread water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She just looks as if she's sleeping," she said helplessly. ‘What's wrong with her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door paused at the top of the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SHE IS LIVING ON BORROWED TIME, he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an old forge behind the barn. It hadn't been used for years. But now red and yellow light spilled out into the yard, pulsing like a heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And like a heart, there was a regular thumping. With every crash the light flared blue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth sidled through the open doorway. If she was the kind of person who would swear, she would have sworn that she made no noise that could possibly be heard above the crackle of the fire and the hammering, but Bill Door spun around in a halfcrouch, holding a curved blade in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He relaxed, or at least moved into a different level of tension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell're you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at the blade in his hands as if he was seeing it for the first time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THOUGHT I WOULD SHARPEN THIS SCYTHE, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At one o'clock in the morning?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at it blankly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S JUST AS BLUNT AT NIGHT, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he slammed it down on the anvil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND I CAN'T SHARPEN IT ENOUGH!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think perhaps the heat has got to you," she said, and reached out and took his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides, it looks sharp enough to –" she began, and paused. Her fingers moved on the bone of his arm. They pulled away for a moment, and then closed again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door shivered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth didn't hesitate for long. In seventy-five years she had dealt with wars, famine, innumerable sick animals, a couple of epidemics and thousands of tiny, everyday tragedies. A depressed skeleton wasn't even in the top ten Worst Things she had seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So it is you," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH, I -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always knew you would come one day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THINK PERHAPS THAT -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, I spent most of my life waiting for a knight on a white charger. " Miss Flitworth grinned. "The joke's on me, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door sat down on the anvil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The apothecary came. " she said. "He said he couldn't do anything. He said she was fine. We just couldn't wake her up. And. you know, it took us ages to get her hand open. She had it closed so tightly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SAID NOTHING WAS TO BE TAKEN!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right. It's all right. We left her holding it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GOOD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MY TIME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MY TIME. THE TIME OF MY LIFE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It looks like an eggtimer for very expensive eggs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked surprised. YES. IN A WAY. I HAVE GIVEN HER SOME OF MY TIME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How come you need time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EVERY LIVING THING NEEDS TIME. AND WHEN IT RUNS OUT, THEY DIE. WHEN IT RUNS OUT, SHE WILL DIE. AND I WILL DIE, TOO. IN A FEW HOURS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you can't -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I CAN. IT'S HARD TO EXPLAIN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Move up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said move up. I want to sit down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door made space on the anvil. Miss Flitworth sat down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you're going to die," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you don't want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at her as if she was mad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BECAUSE THEN THERE WILL BE NOTHING. BECAUSE I WON'T EXIST.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that what happens for humans, too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T THINK SO. IT'S DIFFERENT FOR YOU. YOU HAVE IT ALL BETTER ORGANISED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both sat watching the fading glow of the coals in the forge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what were you working on the scythe blade for?" said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THOUGHT PERHAPS I COULD... FIGHT BACK...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has it ever worked? With you, I mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOT USUALLY. SOMETIMES PEOPLE CHALLENGE ME TO A GAME. FOR THEIR LIVES, YOU KNOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do they ever win?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. LAST YEAR SOMEONE GOT THREE STREETS AND ALL THE UTILITIES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? What sort of game is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T RECALL. ‘EXCLUSIVE POSSESSION', I THINK. I WAS THE BOOT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just a moment. " said Miss Flitworth. "If you're you, who will be coming for you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DEATH. LAST NIGHT THIS WAS PUSHED UNDER THE DOOR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death opened his hand to reveal a small grubby piece of paper, on which Miss Flitworth could read. with some difficulty, the word: OOoooEEEeeOOOoooEEeeeOOOoooEEeee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE RECEIVED THE BADLY-WRITTEN NOTE OF THE BANSHEE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth looked at him with her head on one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But... correct me if I'm wrong, but..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE NEW DEATH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door picked up the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HE WILL BE TERRIBLE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blade twisted in his hands. Blue light flickered along its edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WILL BE THE FIRST.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth stared at the light as if fascinated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly how terrible?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW TERRIBLE CAN YOU IMAGINE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EXACTLY AS TERRIBLE AS THAT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blade tilted this way and that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And for the child, too," said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't reckon I owe you any favours, Mr. Door. I don't reckon anyone in the whole world owes you any favours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU MAY BE RIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mind you, life's got one or two things to answer for too. Fair's fair."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I CAN'T SAY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth gave him another long, appraising look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a pretty good grindstone in the corner," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'VE USED IT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there's an oilstone in the cupboard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'VE USED THAT, TOO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She thought she could hear a sound as the blade moved. A sort of faint whine of tensed air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it's still not sharp enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door sighed. IT MAY NEVER BE SHARP ENOUGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, man. No sense in giving in," said Miss Flitworth. "Where there's life, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHERE THERE'S LIFE EH WHAT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's hope?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IS THERE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door ran a bony finger along the edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOPE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got anything else left to try?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill shook his head. He'd tried a number of emotions, but this was a new one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">COULD YOU FETCH ME A STEEL?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an hour later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth sorted through her rag-bag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What next?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT HAVE WE HAD SO FAR?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's see... hessian, calico, linen... how about satin? Here's a piece."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door took the rag and wiped it gently along the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth reached the bottom of the bag, and pulled out a swatch of white cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Silk," she said softly. ‘Finest white silk. The real stuff. Never worn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat back and stared at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while he took it tactfully from her fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well now," she said, waking up. ‘That's it, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he turned the blade, it made a noise like whommmm. The fires of the forge were barely alive now, but the blade glowed with razor light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sharpened on silk," said Miss Flitworth. ‘Who'd believe it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND STILL BLUNT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked around the dark forge, and then darted into a corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What have you found?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">COBWEB.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a long thin whine, like the torturing of ants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any good?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">STILL TOO BLUNT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched Bill Door stride out of the forge, and scuttled after him. He went and stood in the middle of the yard, holding the scythe blade edge-on to the faint, dawn breeze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It hummed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How sharp can a blade get, for goodness' sake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT CAN GET SHARPER THAN THIS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in his henhouse, Cyril the cockerel awoke and stared blearily at the treacherous letters chalked on the board. He took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Floo-acockle-dod!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door glanced at the rimward horizon and then, speculatively, at the little hill behind the house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He jerked forward, legs clicking over the ground.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The new daylight sloshed on to the world. Discworld light is old, slow and heavy; it roared across the landscape like a cavalry charge. The occasional valley slowed it for a moment and here and there, a mountain range banked it up until it poured over the top and down the far slope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It moved across a sea, surged up the beach and accelerated over the plains, driven by the lash of the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the fabled hidden continent of Xxxx, somewhere near the rim, there is a lost colony of wizards who wear corks around their pointy hats and live on nothing but prawns. There, the light is still wild and fresh as it rolls in from space, and the surf on the boiling interface between night and day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If one of them had been carried thousands of miles inland on the dawn, he might have seen, as the light thundered over the high plains, a stick figure toiling up a low hill in the path of the morning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reached the top a moment before the light arrived, took a breath, and then spun around in a crouch, grinning.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It held a long blade upright between extended arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Light struck... split... slid...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not that the wizard would have paid much attention, because he'd be too busy worrying about the five-thousand-mile walk back home.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth panted up as the new day streamed past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was absolutely still, only the blade moving between his fingers as he angled it against the light. Finally he seemed satisfied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around and swished it experimentally through the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth stuck her hands on her hips. "Oh, come on," she said, "No-one can sharpen a blade on daylight! How can you sharpen something..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She paused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved the blade again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good grief."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in the yard. Cyril stretched his bald neck for another 90. Bill Door grinned, and swung the blade towards the sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Su-doodle-riod!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he lowered the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT'S SHARP.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His grin faded, or at least faded as much as it was able to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth turned, following the line of his gaze until it intersected a haze over the cornfields.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked like a pale grey robe, empty but still somehow maintaining the shape of its wearer, as if a garment on a washing line was catching the breeze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wavered for a moment, and then vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I saw it," said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT WASN'T IT. THAT WAS THEM.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Them who?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEY'RE LIKE - Bill Door waved a hand vaguely - SERVANTS. WATCHERS. AUDITORS. INSPECTORS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth's eyes narrowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Inspectors? You mean like the Revenoo?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SUPPOSE SO-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth's face lit up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M SORRY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My father always made me promise never to help the Revenoo. Even just thinking about the Revenoo, he said, made him want to go and have a lie down. He said that there was death and taxes, and taxes was worse, because at least death didn't happen to you every year. We had to go out of the room when he really got started about the Revenoo. Nasty creatures. Always poking around asking what you've got hidden under the woodpile and behind the secret panels in the cellar and other stuff which is no concern whatsoever of anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sniffed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was impressed. Miss Flitworth could actually give the word "revenue", which had two vowels and one diphthong, all the peremptoriness of the word "scum".</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You should have said that they were after you right from the start. " said Miss Flitworth. "The Revenoo aren't popular in these parts, you know. In my father's day, any Revenooer came around here prying around by himself, we used to tie weights to their feet and heave ‘em into the pond."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT THE POND IS ONLY A FEW INCHES DEEP, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but it was fun watching ‘em find out. You should have said. Everyone thought you were to do with taxes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. NOT TAXES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, well. I didn't know there was a Revenoo Up There, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. IN A WAY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sidled closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When will he come?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TONIGHT. I CANNOT BE EXACT. TWO PEOPLE ARE LIVING ON THE SAME TIMER. IT MAKES THINGS UNCERTAIN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know people could give people some of their life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you're sure about tonight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that blade will work, will it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T KNOW. IT'S A MILLION TO ONE CHANCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. " She seemed to be considering something. "So you've got the rest of the day free, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you can start getting the harvest in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It'll keep you busy. Keep your mind off things. Besides, I'm paying you sixpence a week. And sixpence is sixpence."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake's house was also in Elm Street. Windle knocked on the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while a muffled voice called out, "Is there anybody there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Knock once for yes," Schleppel volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle levered open the letter-box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me? Mrs. Cake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake wasn't what Windle had expected. She was big, but not in the sense of being fat. She was just built to a scale slightly larger than normal; the sort of person who goes through life crouching slightly and looking apologetic in case they inadvertently loom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she had magnificent hair. It crowned her head and flowed out behind her like a cloak. She also had slightly pointed ears and teeth which, while white and quite beautiful, caught the light in a disturbing way. Windle was amazed at the speed at which his heightened zombie senses reached a conclusion. He looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine was sitting bolt upright, too excited even to wag his tail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you could be Mrs. Cake," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want mother," said the tall girl. "Mother! There's a gentleman!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A distant muttering became a closer muttering, and then Mrs. Cake appeared around the side of her daughter like a small moon emerging from planetary shadow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What d'yew want?" said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle took a step backwards. Unlike her daughter, Mrs. Cake was quite short, and almost perfectly circular. And still unlike her daughter, whose whole stance was dedicated to making herself look small, she loomed tremendously. This was largely because of her hat, which he later learned she wore at all times with the dedication of a wizard. It was huge and black and had things on it, like bird wings and wax cherries and hatpins; Carmen Miranda could have worn that hat to the funeral of a continent. Mrs. Cake travelled underneath it as the basket travels under a balloon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People often found themselves talking to her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs. Cake?" said Windle, fascinated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oim down ‘ere," said a reproachful voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lowered his gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's ‘oo I am, " said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Am I addressing Mrs. Cake?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, oi, know," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name's Windle Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oi knew that, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a wizard, yoysee -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, but see you wipes your feet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"May I come in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons paused. He replayed the last few lines of conversation in the clicking control room of his brain. And then he smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right, " said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you by any chance a natural clairvoyant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About ten seconds usually, Mr. Poons. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You gotta ask the question," said Mrs. Cake quickly. "I gets a migraine if people goes and viciously not asks questions after I've already foreseen ‘em and answered ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How far into the future can you see, Mrs. Cake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Roight, then," she said, apparently mollified, and led the way through the hall into a tiny sitting-room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the bogey can come in, only he's got to leave ‘is door outside and go in the cellar. I don't hold with bogeys wanderin' around the house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gosh, it's ages since I've been in a proper cellar," said Schleppel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's got spiders in it," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wow!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you'd like a cup of tea," said Mrs. Cake to Windle. Someone else might have said "I expect you'd like a cup of tea", or "Do you want a cup of tea?" But this was a statement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, please, " said Windle. "I'd love a cup of tea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You shouldn't," said Mrs. Cake. "That stuff rots your teeth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle worked this one out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two sugars, please," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is a nice place you have here, Mrs. Cake," said Windle, his mind racing. Mrs. Cake's habit of answering questions while they were still forming in your mind taxed the most active brain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's been dead for ten years," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said Windle, but the question was already there in his larynx, "I trust Mr. Cake is in good health?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's OK. Oi speaks to him occasional," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry to hear that," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, if it makes you feel any better."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um, Mrs. Cake? I'm finding it a little confusing. Could you... switch off... your precognition... ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry. Oi gets into the habit of leavin' it on," she said, "what with there only bein' me an' Ludmilla and One-Man-Bucket. He's a ghost," she added. "Oi knew you was goin' to ask that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I had heard that mediums have native spirit guides," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Im ‘E ‘s not a guide, "e's a sort of odd-job ghost," said Mrs. Cake. "I don't hold with all that stuff with cards and trumpets and Oo-jar boards, mind you. An' I think ectoplasm's disgustin'. Oi won't have it in the ‘ouse. Oi won't. You can't get it out of the carpets, you know. Not even with vinegar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word, " said Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or wailin'. I don't hold with it. Or messin' around with the supernatural. It's unnatural, the supernatural. I won't have it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," said Windle cautiously. "There are those who might think that being a medium is a bit... you know... supernatural?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? What? Nothing supernatural about dead people. Load of nonsense. Everyone dies sooner or later."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do hope so, Mrs. Cake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what is it you'd be wanting, Mr. Poons? I'm not precognitin', so you have to tell me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to know what's happening, Mrs. Cake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a muted thump from under their feet and the faint, happy sound of Schleppel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, wow! Rats, too!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I went up and tried to tell you wizards," said Mrs. Cake, primly. "An' no-one listened. I knew they weren't going to, but I ‘ad to try, otherwise I wouldn't ‘ave known."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who did you speak to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The big one with the red dress and a moustache like he's trying to swallow a cat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. The Archchancellor, " said Windle, positively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there was a huge fat one. Walks like a duck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He does, doesn't he? That was the Dean," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They called me their good woman, " said Mrs. Cake. "They told me to be about my business. Don't see why I should go around helpin' wizards who call me a good woman when I was only trying to help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid wizards don't often listen," said Windle. "I never listened for one hundred and thirty years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In case I heard what rubbish I was saying, I expect. What's happening, Mrs. Cake? You can tell me. I may be a wizard, but I'm a dead one. Schleppel told me it was all due to life force."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's buildin' up, see?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does that mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's more'f it than there should be. You get" - she waved her hands vaguely – "when things are like in a scales only not the same on both sides..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Imbalance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake, who looked as though she was reading a distant script, nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One of them things, yeah... see, sometimes it just happens a little bit, and you get ghosts, because the life is not in the body any more but it hasn't gone... and you get less of it in the winter, because it sort of drains away, and it comes back in the spring... and some things concentrate it..."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Modo the University gardener hummed a little tune as he wheeled the strange trolley into his private little area between the Library and the High Energy Magic building, with a load of weeds bound for composthood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There seemed to be a lot of excitement around at the moment. It was certainly interesting, working with all these wizards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Teamwork, that's what it was. They looked after the cosmic balance, the universal harmonies and the dimensional equilibriums, and he saw to it that the aphids stayed off the roses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a metallic tinkle. He peered over the top of the heap of weeds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A gleaming metal wire basket on little wheels sat on the path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe the wizards had bought it for him? The first one was quite useful, although it was a little bit hard to steer; the little wheels seemed to want to go in different directions. There was probably a knack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, this one would be handy for carrying seed trays in. He pushed the second trolley aside and heard, behind him, a sound which, if it had to be written down, and if he could write, he would probably have written down as: glop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around, saw the biggest of the compost heaps pulsating in the dark, and said, "Look what I brought you for your tea!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he saw that it was moving.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some places, too... " said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But why should it build up?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's like a thunderstorm, see? You know how you get that prickly feelin' before a storm? That's what's happening now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but why, Mrs. Cake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... One-Man-Bucket says nothing's dying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Daft, isn't it? He says lots of lives are ending, but not going away. They're just staying here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, like ghosts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not just ghosts. Just - it's like puddles. When you get a lot of puddles, it's like the sea. Anyway, you only get ghosts from things like people. You don't get ghosts of cabbages."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons sat back in his chair. He had a vision of a vast pool of life, a lake being fed by a million short-lived tributaries as living things came to the end of their span. And life force was leaking out as the pressure built up. Leaking out wherever it could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you think I could have a word with One –" he began, and then stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He got up and lurched over to Mrs. Cake's mantel-piece.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you had this, Mrs. Cake?" he demanded, picking up a familiar glassy object.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That? Bought it yesterday. Pretty, ain't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle shook the globe. It was almost identical to the ones under his floorboards. Snowflakes whirled up and settled on an exquisite model of Unseen University.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reminded him strongly of something. Well, the building obviously reminded him of the University, but the shape of the whole thing, there was a hint of, it made him think of...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... breakfast?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why is it happening?" he said, half to himself. "These damn things are turning up everywhere."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards ran down the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you kill ghosts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How should I know? The question doesn't usually arise!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You exorcise them, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Jumpin' up and down, runnin' on the spot, that kind of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean had been ready for this. "It's spelled with an "O", Archchancellor. I don't think one is expected to subject them to, er, physical exertion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should think not, man. We don't want a lot of healthy ghosts buzzin' around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a blood-curdling scream. It echoed around the dark pillars and arches, and was suddenly cut off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor stopped abruptly. The wizards cannoned into him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounded like a blood-curdlin' scream," he said. "Follow me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran around the corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a metallic crash, and a lot of swearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something small and striped red and yellow, with tiny dripping fangs and three pairs of wings, flew around the corner and shot over the Dean's head making a noise like a miniature buzzsaw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyone know what that was?" said the Bursar, faintly. The thing orbited the wizards and then disappeared into the darkness of the roof. "And I wish he wouldn't swear so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said the Dean. ‘We'd better see what's happened to him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Must we?" said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They peered around the corner. The Archchancellor was sitting up, rubbing his ankle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What idiot left this here?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Left what?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This blasted wire baskety wheely thing," said the Archchancellor. Beside him, a tiny purple spider-like creature materialised out of the air and scuttled towards a crevice. The wizards didn't notice it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What wire baskety wheely thing?" said the wizards, in unison.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could have sworn –" he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully scrambled to his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, you fellows!" he said, limping heroically onwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why does everyone run towards a blood-curdling scream?" mumbled the Senior Wrangler. "It's contrary to all sense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They trotted out through the cloisters and into the quadrangle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A rounded, dark shape was squatting in the middle of the ancient lawn. Steam was coming out of it in little, noisome wisps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be a compost heap in the middle of the lawn, can it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Modo will be very upset."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean peered closer. "Er... especially because, I do believe, that's his feet poking out from under it..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap swivelled towards the wizards and made a glop, glop noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, then," said Ridcully, rubbing his hands together hopefully, "which of you fellows has got a spell about them at the moment?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards patted their pockets in an embarrassed fashion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I shall attract its attention while the Bursar and the Dean try to pull Modo out," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, good, " said the Dean faintly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you attract a compost heap's attention?" said the Senior Wrangler. "I shouldn't think it's even got one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully removed his hat and stepped gingerly forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Load of rubbish!" he roared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler groaned and put his hand over his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully flapped his hat in front of the heap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Biodegradable garbage!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Poor green trash?" said the Lecturer in Recent Runes helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the ticket," said the Archchancellor. "Try to infuriate the bugger. " (Behind him, a slightly different variety of mad waspy creature popped out of the air and buzzed away.)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap lunged at the hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Midden!" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I say," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, shocked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean and the Bursar crept forward, grabbed a gardener's foot each, and pulled. Modo slid out of the heap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It‘s eaten through his clothes!" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But is he all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's still breathing," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if he's lucky, he's lost his sense of smell, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap snapped at Ridcully's hat. There was a glop. The point of the hat had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, there was still almost half a bottle in there!" Ridcully roared. The Senior Wrangler grabbed his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Archchancellor!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap swivelled and lunged towards the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be intelligent, can it?" said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All it's doing is moving around slowly and eating things, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Put a pointy hat on it and it'd be a faculty member," said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap came after them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't call that moving slowly," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked expectantly at the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Run!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Portly though most of the faculty were, they hit a fair turn of speed up the cloisters, fought one another through the door, slammed it behind them and leaned on it. Very soon afterwards, there was a damp, heavy thud on the far side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're well out of that," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it's coming through the door, Archchancellor," he said, in a tiny voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be daft, man, we're all leanin' on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't mean through, I mean... through..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor sniffed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's burnin'?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your boots, Archchancellor," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked down. A greenish-yellow puddle was spreading under the door. The wood was charring, the flagstones were hissing, and the leather soles of his boots were definitely in trouble. He could feel himself getting lower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He fumbled with the laces, and then took a standing jump on to a dry flagstone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bursar!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Archchancellor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give me your boots!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dammit, man, I command you to give me your blasted boots!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time, a long creature with four pairs of wings, two at each end, and three eyes, popped into existence over Ridcully's head and dropped on to his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am your Archchancellor!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think the hinges are going," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked around desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll regroup in the Great Hall," he said. "We'll... strategically withdraw to previously prepared positions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who prepared them?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll prepare them when we get there," said the Archchancellor through gritted teeth. "Bursar! Your boots! Now!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached the double doors of the Great Hall just as the door behind them half-collapsed, half-dissolved. The Great Hall's doors were much sturdier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bolts and bars were dragged into place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Clear the tables and pile them up in front of the door," snapped Ridcully</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it eats through wood, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a moan from the small body of Modo, which had been propped against a chair. He opened his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quick!" said Ridcully. ‘How can we kill a compost heap?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um. I don't think you can, Mr. Ridcully, sir," said the gardener.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about fire? I could probably manage a small fireball, " said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It wouldn't work. Too soggy," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's right outside! It's eating away at the door! It's eating away at the door," sang the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards backed further away down the length of the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hope it doesn't eat too much wood," said the dazed Modo, radiating genuine concern. "They're a devil, excuse my Klatchian, if you get too much carbon in them. It's far too heating."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, this is exactly the right time for a lecture on the dynamics of compost making, Modo," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dwarfs do not know the meaning of the word "irony".</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, all right. Ahem. The correct balance of materials, correctly layered according to -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There goes the door," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, lumbering towards the rest of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mound of furniture started to move forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor stared desperately around the hall, at a loss. Then his eyes were drawn to a familiar, heavy bottle on one of the sideboards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Carbon," he said. ‘That's like charcoal, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How should I know? I'm not an alchemist," sniffed the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The compost heap emerged from the debris. Steam poured off it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor looked longingly at the bottle of Wow-Wow Sauce. He uncorked it. He took a deep sniff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The cooks here just can't make it properly, you know," he said. "It'll be weeks before I can get any more from home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tossed the bottle towards the advancing heap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It vanished into the seething mass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stinging nettles are always useful," said Modo, behind him. ‘They add iron. And comfrey, well, you can never get enough comfrey. For the minerals, you know. Myself, I've always reckoned that a small quantity of wild yarrow -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards peered over the top of an overturned table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heap had stopped moving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it just me, or is it getting bigger?" said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And looking happier," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It smells awful," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, well. And that was nearly a full bottle of sauce, too," said the Archchancellor sadly. "I'd hardly opened it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nature's a wonderful thing, when you come to think about it," said the Senior Wrangler. "You don't all have to glare at me like that, you know. I was only passing a remark."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are times when -' Ridcully began, and then the compost heap exploded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a bang or a boom. It was the dampest, most corpulent eruption in the history of terminal flatulence. Dark red flame, fringed with black, roared up to the ceiling. Pieces of heap rocketed across the hall and slapped wetly into the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards peered out from their barricade, which was now thick with tea-leaves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cabbage stalk dropped softly on to the Dean's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at a small, bubbling patch on the flagstones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face split slowly into a grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wow," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other wizards unfolded themselves. Adrenaline backwash worked its seductive spell. They grinned, too, and started playfully punching one another on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eat hot sauce!" roared the Archchancellor. ‘Up against the hedge, fermented rubbish!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we kick ass, or can we kick ass?" burbled the Dean happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean can't the second time, not can. And I'm not sure that a compost heap can be said to have an -' the Senior Wrangler began, but the tide of excitement was flowing against him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's one heap that won't mess with wizards again," said the Dean, who was getting carried away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're keen and mean and -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's three more of them out there, Modo says," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They fell silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We could go and pick up our staffs, couldn't we?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor prodded a piece of exploded heap with the toe of his boot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dead things coming alive," he murmured. "I don't like that. What's next? Walking statues?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards looked up at the statues of dead Archchancellors that lined the Great Hall and, indeed, most of the corridors of the University. The University had been in existence for thousands of years and the average Archchancellor remained in office for about eleven months, so there were plenty of statues.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, I really wish you hadn't said that, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was just a thought," said Ridcully. "Come on, let's have a look at the rest of those heaps."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah!" said the Dean, now in the grip of a wild, unwizardly machismo. "We're mean! Yeah! Are we mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor raised his eyebrows, and then turned to the rest of the wizards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are we mean?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er. I'm feeling reasonably mean," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm definitely very mean, I think," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's having no boots that does it," he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be mean if everyone else is," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor turned back to the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said, "it appears that we are all mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo what?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not a yo what, it's just a yo," said the Senior Wrangler, behind him. "It's a general street greeting and affirmative with convivial military ingroup and masculine bonding-ritual overtones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? What? Like "jolly good"?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose so," said the Senior Wrangler, reluctantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully was pleased. Ankh-Morpork had never offered very good prospects for hunting. He'd never thought it was possible to have so much fun in his own university.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, " he said. ‘Let's get those heaps!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo-yo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully sighed. "Bursar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Archchancellor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just try to understand, all right?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Clouds piled up over the mountains. Bill Door strode up and down the first field, using one of the ordinary farm scythes; the sharpest one had been temporarily stored at the back of the barn, in case it was blunted by air convection. Some of Miss Flitworth's tenants followed behind him, binding the sheaves and stacking them. Miss Flitworth had never employed more than one man full time, Bill Door learned; she bought in other help as she needed it, to save pennies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never seen a man cut corn with a scythe before," said one of them. "It's a sickle job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stopped for lunch, and ate it under the hedge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door had never paid a great deal of attention to the names and faces of people, beyond that necessary for business. Corn stretched over the hillside; it was made up of individual stalks and to the eye of one stalk another stalk might be quite an impressive stalk, with a dozen amusing and distinctive little mannerisms that set it apart from all other stalks. But to the reaper man, all stalks start off as... just stalks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now he was beginning to recognise the little differences.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was William Spigot and Gabby Wheels and Duke Bottomley. All old men, as far as Bill Door could judge, with skins like leather. There were young men and women in the village, but at a certain age they seemed to flip straight over to being old, without passing through any intermediate stage. And then they stayed old for a long time. Miss Flitworth had said that before they could start a graveyard in these parts they'd had to hit someone over the head with the shovel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">William Spigot was the one that sang when he worked, breaking into that long nasal whine which meant that folk song was about to be perpetrated. Gabby Wheels never said anything; this, Spigot had said, was why he had been called Gabby. Bill Door had failed to understand the logic of this, although it seemed transparent to the others.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Duke Bottomley had been named by parents with upwardly-mobile if rather simplistic ideas about class structure; his brothers were Squire, Earl and King.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now they sat in a row under the hedge, putting off the moment when they'd need to start work again. A glugging noise came from the end of the row.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not been a bad old summer, then," said Spigot. "And good harvest weather for a change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah... many a slip ‘twixt dress and drawers," said Duke. "Last night I saw a spider spinnin' its web backwards. That's a sure sign there's going to be a dretful storm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't see how spiders know things like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gabby Wheels passed a big earthenware jug to Bill Door. Something sloshed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT IS THIS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apple juice," said Spigot. The others laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH, said Bill Door. STRONG DISTILLED SPIRITS, GIVEN HUMOROUSLY TO THE UNSUSPECTING NEWCOMER, THUS TO AFFORD SIMPLE AMUSEMENT WHEN HE BECOMES INADVERTENTLY INEBRIATED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor," said Spigot. Bill Door took a long swig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I saw swallows flying low," said Duke. "And partridges are heading for the woods. And there's a lot of big snails about. And -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't reckon any of them buggers knows the first thing about meteorology," said Spigot. "I reckon you goes around telling ‘em. Eh, lads? Big storm comin', Mr. Spider, so get on and do somethin' folklorish."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door took another drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT IS THE NAME OF THE BLACKSMITH IN THE VILLAGE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Spigot nodded. ‘That's Ned Simnel, down by the green. O'course, he's real busy about now, what with the harvest and all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE SOME WORK FOR HIM.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door got up and strode away towards the gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped. YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can leave the brandy behind, then."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The village forge was dark and stifling in the heat. But Bill Door had very good eyesight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something moved among a complicated heap of metal. It turned out to be the lower half of a man. His upper body was somewhere in the machinery, from which came the occasional grunt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand shot out as Bill Door approached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. Give me three-eighths Gripley."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill looked around. A variety of tools were strewn around the forge. "Come on, come on," said a voice from somewhere in the machine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door selected a piece of shaped metal at random, and placed it in the hand. It was drawn inside. There was metallic noise, and a grunt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said a Gripley. This isn't a" - there was the scringeing noise of a piece of metal giving way – "my thumb, my thumb, you made me" - there was a clang – "aargh. That was my head. Now look what you've made me do. And the ratchet spring's snapped off the trunnion armature again, do you realise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. I AM SORRY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that you, young Egbert?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. IT IS ME, OLD BILL DOOR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a series of thumps and twanging noises as the top half of the human extricated itself from the machinery, and turned out to belong to a young man with black curly hair, a black face, black shirt, and black apron. He wiped a cloth across his face, leaving a pink smear, and blinked the sweat out of his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who're you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GOOD OLD BILL DOOR? WORKING FOR MISS FLITWORTH?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. The man in the fire? Hero of the hour, I heard. Put it there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He extended a black hand. Bill Door looked at it blankly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM SORRY. I STILL DO NOT KNOW WHAT A THREE-EIGHTHS GRIPLEY IS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean your hand, Mr. Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door hesitated, and then put his hand in the young man's palm. The oil-rimmed eyes glazed for a moment as the brain overruled the sense of touch, and then the smith smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The name's Simnel. What do you think, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S A GOOD NAME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I mean the machine. Pretty ingenious, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door reguarded it with polite incomprehension. It looked, at first sight, like a portable windmill that had been attacked by an enormous insect, and at second sight like a touring torture chamber for an Inquisition that wanted to get out and about a bit and enjoy the fresh air. Mysterious jointed arms stuck out at various angles. There were belts, and long springs. The whole thing was mounted on spiked metal wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course, you're not seeing it at its best when it's standing still," said Simnel. "It needs a horse to pull it. At the moment, anyway. I've got one or two rather radical ideas in that direction," he added dreamily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S A DEVICE OF SOME SORT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel looked mildly affronted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I prefer the term machine," he said. "It will revolutionise farming methods, and drag them kicking and screaming into the Century of the Fruitbat. My folk have had this forge for three hundred years, but Ned Simnel doesn't intend to spend the rest of his life nailing bits of bent metal on to horses, I call tell you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill looked at him blankly. Then he bent down and glanced under the machine. A dozen sickles were bolted to a big horizontal wheel. Ingenious linkages took power from the wheels, via a selection of pulleys, to a whirligig arrangement of metal arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He began to experience a horrible feeling about the thing in front of him, but he asked anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, the heart of it all is this cam shaft," said Simnel, gratified at the interest. ‘The power comes up via the pulley here, and the cams move the swaging arms - that's these things - and the combing gate, which is operated by the reciprocating mechanism, comes down just as the gripping shutter drops in this slot here, and of course at the same time the two brass balls go round and round and the flatting sheets carry off the straw while the grain drops with the aid of gravity down the riffling screw and into the hopper. Simple."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND THE THREE-EIGHTHS GRIPLEY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good job you reminded me. " Simnel fished around among the debris on the floor, picked up a small knurled object, and screwed it on to a protruding piece of the mechanism. "Very important job. It stops the elliptical cam gradually sliding up the beam shaft and catching on the flange rebate, with disastrous results as you can no doubt imagine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel stood back and wiped his hands on a cloth, making them slightly more oily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm calling it the Combination Harvester," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door felt very old. In fact he was very old. But he'd never felt it as much as this. Somewhere in the shadow of his soul he felt he knew, without the blacksmith explaining, what it was that the Combination Harvester was supposed to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going to give it a trial run this afternoon up in old Peedbury's big field. It looks very promising, I must say. What you're looking at now, Mr. Door, is the future."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door ran his hand over the framework.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND THE HARVEST ITSELF?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm? What about it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT WILL IT THINK OF IT? WILL IT KNOW?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel wrinkled his nose. "Know? Know? It won't know anything. Corn's corn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND SIXPENCE IS SIXPENCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly. " Simnel hesitated. "What was it you were wanting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall figure ran a disconsolate finger over the oily mechanism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PARDON? OH. YES. I HAD SOMETHING FOR YOU TO DO -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He strode out of the forge and returned almost immediately with something wrapped in silk. He unwrapped it carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd made a new handle for the blade - not a straight one, such as they used in the mountains, but the heavy doublecurved handle of the plains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want it beaten out? A new grass nail? Metalwork replacing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WANT IT KILLED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Killed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. TOTALLY. EVERY BIT DESTROYED. SO THAT IT IS ABSOLUTELY DEAD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice scythe," said Simnel. ‘Seems a shame. You've kept a good edge on it -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DON'T TOUCH IT!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel sucked his finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny," he said, "I could have sworn I didn't touch it. My hand was inches away. Well, it's sharp, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swished it through the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Pretty sharp</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused, stuck his little finger in his ear and swivelled it around a bit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sure you know what you want?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door solemnly repeated his request.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel shrugged. "Well, I suppose I could melt it and burn the handle," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, OK. It's your scythe. And you're basically right, of course. This is old technology now. Redundant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I FEAR YOU MAY BE RIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel jerked a grimy thumb towards the Combination Harvester. Bill Door knew it was made only of metal and canvas, and therefore couldn't possibly lurk. But it was lurking. Moreover, it was doing so with a chilling, metallic smugness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could get Miss Flitworth to buy you one of these, Mr. Door. It'd be just the job for a one-man farm like that. I can see you now, up there, up in the breeze, with the belts clacking away and the sparge arms oscillating -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on. She could afford it. They say she's got boxes full of treasure from the old days. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er -' Simnel hesitated. The last ‘No' contained a threat more certain than the creak of thin ice on a deep river. It said that going any further could be the most foolhardy thing Simnel would ever do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you know your own mind best," he mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then it'll just be, oh, call it a farthing for the scythe," Simnel gabbled. "Sorry about that, but it'll use a lot of coals, you see, and those dwarfs keep winding up the price of -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HERE. IT MUST BE DONE BY TONIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel didn't argue. Arguing would mean that Bill Door remained in the forge, and he was getting quite anxious that this should not be so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU UNDERSTAND?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. Right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FAREWELL, said Bill Door solemnly, and left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel shut the doors after him, and leaned against them. Whew. Nice man, of course, everyone was talking about him, it was just that after a couple of minutes in his presence you got a pins-and-needles sensation that someone was walking over your grave and it hadn't even been dug yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wandered across the oily floor, filled the tea kettle and wedged it on a corner of the forge. He picked up a spanner to do some final adjustments to the Combination Harvester, and spotted the scythe leaning against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tiptoed towards it, and realised that tiptoeing was an amazingly stupid thing to do. It wasn't alive. It couldn't hear. It just looked sharp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised the spanner, and felt guilty about it. By Mr. Door had said - well, Mr. Door had said something very odd, using the wrong sort of words to use in talking about a mere implement. But he could hardly object to this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel brought the spanner down hard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no resistance. He would have sworn, again, that the spanner sheared in two, as though it was made of bread, several inches from the edge of the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wondered if something could be so sharp that it began to possess, not just a sharp edge, but the very essence of sharpness itself, a field of absolute sharpness that actually extended beyond the last atoms of metal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloody hell "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he remembered that this was sloppy and superstitious thinking for a man who knew how to bevel a three eighths Gripley. You knew where you were with a reciprocating linkage. It either worked or it didn't. It certainly didn't present you with mysteries.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked proudly at the Combination Harvester. Of course, you needed a horse to pull it. That spoiled things a bit. Horses belonged to Yesterday; Tomorrow belonged to the Combination Harvester and its descendants, which would make the world a cleaner and better place. It was just a matter of taking the horse out of the equation. He'd tried clockwork, and that wasn't powerful enough. Maybe if he tried winding a -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind him, the kettle boiled over and put the fire out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel fought his way through the steam. That was the bloody trouble, every time. Whenever someone was trying to do a bit of sensible thinking, there was always some pointless distraction.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake drew the curtains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who exactly is One-Man-Bucket?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She lit a couple of candles and sat down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘e belonged to one of them heathen Howondaland tribes," she said shortly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very strange name, One-Man-Bucket," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not ‘is full name. " said Mrs. Cake darkly. ‘Now, we've got to ‘old ‘ands. " She looked at him speculatively. "We need someone else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could call Schleppel," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't ‘aving no bogey under my table trying to look up me drawers," said Mrs. Cake. ‘Ludmilla!" she shouted. After a moment or two the bead curtain leading into the kitchen was swept aside and the young woman who had originally opened the door to Windle came in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes mother?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sit down, girl. We need another one for the seancing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl smiled at Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is Ludmilla," said Mrs. Cake shortly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Charmed, I'm sure," said Windle. Ludmilla gave him the bright, crystalline smile perfected by people who had long ago learned not to let their feelings show.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have already met," said Windle. It must be at least a day since full moon, he thought. All the signs are nearly gone. Nearly. Well, well, well...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's my shame," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mother, you do go on," said Ludmilla, without rancour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Join hands, " said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They sat in the semi-darkness. Then Windle felt Mrs. Cake's hand being pulled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oi forgot about the glass," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought, Mrs. Cake, that you didn't hold with ouija boards and that sort of –" Windle began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a glugging noise from the sideboard. Mrs. Cake put a full glass on the tablecloth and sat down again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oi don't," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence descended again. Windle cleared his throat nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually Mrs. Cake said, "All right, One-Man-Bucket, oi knows you're there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glass moved. The amber liquid inside sloshed gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bodiless voice quavered, greetings, pale face, from the happy hunting ground -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You stop that," said Mrs. Cake. ‘Everyone knows you got run over by a cart in Treacle Street because you was drunk, One-Man-Bucket."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">s'not my fault. not my fault. is it my fault my great-grandad moved here? by rights I should have been mauled to death by a mountain lion or a giant mammoth or something. I bin denied my deathright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons here wants to ask you a question, One-Man-Bucket," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she is happy here and waiting for you to join her, said One-Man-Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who is?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This seemed to fox One-Man-Bucket. It was a line, that generally satisfied without further explanation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who would you like? he asked cautiously. can I have that ?cerink? now?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet, One-Man-Bucket," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">well, I need it. it's bloody crowded in here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Windle quickly. ‘With ghosts, you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there's hundreds of ‘em, said the voice of One-Man-Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle was disappointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only hundreds?" he said. "That doesn't sound a lot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not many people become ghosts," said Mrs. Cake. ‘To be a ghost, you got to have, like, serious unfinished business, or a terrible revenge to take, or a cosmic purpose in which you are just a pawn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or a cruel thirst, said One-Man-Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will you hark at him," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to stay in the spirit world. or even wire and beer. hngh. hngh. hngh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what happens to the life force if things stop living?" said Windle. ‘Is that what's causing all this trouble?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You tell the man," said Mrs. Cake, when One-Man-Bucket seemed reluctant to answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what trouble you talking about?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Things unscrewing. Clothes running around by themselves. Everyone feeling more alive. That sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that? that's nothing. see, the life force leaks back where it can. you don't need to worry about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle put his hand over the glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But there's something I should be worrying about, isn't there," he said flatly. "It's to do with the little glass souvenirs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't like to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do tell him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Ludmilla's voice - deep but, somehow, attractive. Lupine was watching her intently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle smiled. That was one of the advantages about being dead. You spotted things the living ignored.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Man-Bucket sounded shrill and petulant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what's he going to do if I tell him, then? I could get into heap big trouble for that sort of thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, can you tell me if I guess right?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ye-ess. maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to say anythin'," said Mrs. Cake. "Just knock twice for yes and once for no, like in the old days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">oh, all right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on, Mr. Poons," said Ludmilla. She had the kind of voice Windle wanted to stroke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cleared his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," he began, "that is, I think they're some sort of eggs. I thought... why breakfast? and then I thought... eggs..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Knock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Well, perhaps it was a rather silly idea..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sorry, was it once for yes or twice for yes ?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘voice!" snapped the medium.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">KNOCK. KNOCK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," breathed Windle. ‘And they hatch into something with wheels on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">twice for yes, was it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Roight!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">KNOCK. KNOCK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought so. I thought so! I found one under my floor that tried to hatch where there wasn't enough room!" crowed Windle. Then he frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But hatch into what?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum Ridcully trotted into his study and took his wizard's staff from its rack over the fireplace. He licked his finger and gingerly touched the top of the staff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a small octarine spark and a smell of greasy tin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He headed back for the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he turned around slowly, because his brain had just had time to analyse the study's cluttered contents and spot the oddity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell's that doin' there?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He prodded it with the tip of the staff. It gave a jingling noise and rolled a little way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked vaguely, but not very much, like the sort of thing the maids trundled around loaded with mops and fresh linen and whatever it was maids pushed around. Ridcully made a mental note to take it up with the housekeeper. Then he forgot about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn wire wheely things are gettin' everywhere," he muttered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Upon the word "damn", something like a large blue-bottle with cat-sized dentures flopped out of the air, fluttered madly as it took stock of its surroundings, and then flew after the unheeding Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words of wizards have power. And swearwords have power. And with life force practically crystallising out of the air, it had to find outlets wherever it could.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">cities. said One-Man-Bucket. I think they're city eggs.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The senior wizards gathered again in the Great Hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even the Senior Wrangler was feeling a certain excitement. It was considered bad form to use magic against fellow wizards, and using it against civilians was unsporting. It did you good to have a really righteous zap occasionally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor looked them over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dean, why have you got stripes all over your face?" he enquired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Camouflage, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Camouflage, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, well. So long as you feel happy in yourself, that's what matters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They crept out towards the patch of ground that had been Modo's little territory. At least, most of them crept. The Dean advanced in a series of spinning leaps, occasionally flattening himself against the wall, and saying ‘Hut! Hut! Hut!" under his breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was absolutely crestfallen when the other heaps turned out to be still where Modo had built them. The gardener, who had tagged along behind and had twice nearly been flattened by the Dean, fussed around them for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're just lying low," said the Dean. ‘I say we blow up the godsdamn -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not even warm yet," said Modo. "That one must have been the oldest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean we haven't got anything to fight?" said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground shook underfoot. And then there was a faint jangling noise, from the direction of the cloisters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone ‘s pushing those damn wire baskety things around again," he said. ‘There was one in my study tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh," said the Senior Wrangler. "There was one in my bedroom. I opened the wardrobe and there it was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In your wardrobe? What'd you put it in there for?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't. I told you. It was probably the students. It's their kind of humour. One of them put a hairbrush in my bed once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I fell over one earlier," said the Archchancellor, "and then when I looked round for it, someone had taken it away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jingling noise got closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, Mr. So-called Clever Dick Young-fella-me-lad," said Ridcully, tapping his staff once or twice on his palm in a meaningful way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards backed up against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The phantom trolley pusher was almost on them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully snarled, and leapt out of hiding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aha, my fine young - bloody hellfire!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be pullin' moi leg," said Mrs. Cake. "Cities ain't alive. I know people says they are, but they don't mean really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons turned one of the snowballs around in his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It must be laying thousands of them," he said. "But they wouldn't all survive, of course. Otherwise we'd be up to here in cities, yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You telling us that these little balls hatch out into huge places?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not straight away. there's the mobile stage first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something with wheels on," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that's right. i can see you know already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I knew," said Windle Poons, "but I didn't understand. And what happens after the mobile stage?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then it's time to find out, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced at Ludmilla and Lupine. Ah. Yes. And why not? If you can help somebody as you pass this way, Windle thought, then your living, or whatever, shall not be in vain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let himself fall into a stoop and let a little crackle enter his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I'm rather unsteady on my legs these days," he quavered. ‘It would really be a great favour if someone could help me along. Could you see me as far as the University, young lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ludmilla doesn't go out much these days because her health –" Mrs. Cake began briskly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is absolutely fine," said Ludmilla. ‘Mother, you know it's been a whole day since full moo -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ludmilla!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it has."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not safe for a young woman to walk the streets these days," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Mr. Poons' wonderful dog would frighten away the most dangerous criminal," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On cue, Lupine barked helpfully and begged. Mrs. Cake regarded him critically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's certainly a very obedient animal," she said, reluctantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's settled, then," said Ludmilla. ‘I'll fetch my shawl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine rolled over. Windle nudged him with a foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be good, " he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a meaningful cough from One-Man-Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, all right," said Mrs. Cake. She took a bundle of matches from the dresser, lit one absent-mindedly with her fingernail, and dropped it into the whisky glass. It burned with a blue flame, and somewhere in the spirit world the spectre of a stiff double lasted just long enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Windle Poons left the house, he thought he could hear a ghostly voice raised in song.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley stopped. It swivelled from side to side, as if observing the wizards. Then it did a fast three-point turn and trundled off at high speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get it!" bellowed the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He aimed his staff and got off a fireball which turned a small area of cobblestones into something yellow and bubbly. The speeding trolley rocked wildly but kept going, with one wheel rattling and squeaking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's from the Dungeon Dimensions!" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cream the basket!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor laid a steadying hand on his shoulder. "Don't be daft. Dungeon Things have a lot more tentacles and things. They don't look made."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned at the sound of another trolley. It rattled unconcernedly down a side passage, stopped when it saw or otherwise perceived the wizards, and did a creditable impression of a trolley that had just been left there by someone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar crept up to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's no use you looking like that," he said. ‘We know you can move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We all seed you," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley maintained a low profile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be thinking," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "There's no room for a brain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who says it's thinking?" said the Archchancellor. ‘All it does is move. Who needs brains for that?  Prawns move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran his fingers over the metalwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, prawns are quite intell –" the Senior Wrangler began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," said Ridcully. ‘Hmm. Is this made, though?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's wire," said the Senior Wrangler. ‘Wire's something that you have to make. And there's wheels. Hardly anything natural's got wheels."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's just that up close, it looks -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- all one thing, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, who had knelt down painfully to inspect it the better.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like one unit. Made all in one lump. Like a machine that's been grown. But that's ridiculous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. Isn't there a sort of cuckoo in the Ramtops that builds clocks to nest in?" said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but that's just courtship ritual," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes airily. "Besides, they keep lousy time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley leapt for a gap in the wizards and would have made it except that the gap was occupied by the Bursar, who gave a scream and pitched forward into the basket. The trolley didn't stop but rattled onwards, towards the gates.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean raised his staff. The Archchancellor grabbed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You might hit the Bursar," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just one small fireball?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's tempting, but no. Come on. After it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards lumbered in pursuit. Behind them, as yet unnoticed, a whole flock of the Archchancellor's swearwords fluttered and buzzed. And Windle Poons was leading a small deputation to the Library.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian of Unseen University knuckled his way hurriedly across the floor as the door shook to a thunderous knocking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you're in there," came the voice of Windle Poons. "You must let us in. It's vitally important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't open the doors?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you leave me no choice..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ancient blocks of masonry moved aside slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mortar crumbled. Then part of the wall fell in, leaving Windle Poons standing in a Windle Poons-shaped hole. He coughed on the dust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hate having to do that," he said. ‘I can't help feeling it's pandering to popular prejudice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian landed on his shoulders. To the orangutan's surprise, this made very little difference.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A 300-pound orangutan usually had a noticeable effect on a person's rate of progress, but Windle wore him like a collar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we need Ancient History," he said. "I wonder, could you stop trying to twist my head off?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian looked around wildly. It was a technique that normally never failed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then his nostrils flared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian hadn't always been an ape. A magical library is a dangerous place to work, and he'd been turned into an orangutan as a result of a magical explosion. He'd been a quite inoffensive human, although by now so many people had come to terms with his new shape that few people remembered it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But with the change had come the key to a whole bundle of senses and racial memories. And one of the deepest, most fundamental, most borne-in-the-bone of all of them was to do with shapes. It went back to the dawn of sapience. Shapes with muzzles, teeth and four legs were, in the evolving simian mind, definitely filed under Bad News.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A very large wolf had padded through the hole in the wall, followed by an attractive young woman. The Librarian's signal input was temporarily fused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Also," said Windle, "it is just possible that I could knot your arms behind you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eeek!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's not an ordinary wolf. You'd better believe it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle lowered his voice. "And she might not technically be a woman," he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian looked at Ludmilla. His nostrils flared again. His brow wrinkled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, I may have put that rather clumsily. Do let go, there's a good fellow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian released his grip very cautiously and sank to the floor, keeping Windle between himself and Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle brushed mortar fragments off the remains of his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We need to find out," he said, "about the lives of cities. Specifically, I need to know -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a faint jangling noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A wire basket rolled nonchalantly around the massive stack of the nearest bookcase. It was full of books. It stopped as soon as it realised that it had been seen and contrived to look as though it had never moved at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The mobile stage," breathed Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wire basket tried to inch backwards without appearing to move. Lupine growled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that what One-Man-Bucket was talking about?" said Ludmilla. The trolley vanished. The Librarian grunted, and went after it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. Something that would make itself useful," said Windle, suddenly almost maniacally cheerful. ‘That's how it'd work. First, something that you'd want to keep, and put away somewhere. Thousands wouldn't get the right conditions, but that wouldn't matter, because there would be thousands. And then the next stage would be something that would be handy, and get everywhere, and no-one would ever think it had got there by itself. But it's all happening at the wrong time!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But how can a city be alive? It's only made up of dead parts!" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So're people. Take it from me. I know. But you are right, I think. This shouldn't be happening. It's all this extra life force. It's... it's tipping the balance. It's turning something that isn't really real into a reality. And it's happening too early, and it's happening too quickly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, the poor thing! Look at him!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla rushed across the floor and knelt down by the stricken wolf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It went right over his paws, look!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And he's probably lost a couple of teeth," said Windle. He helped the Librarian up. There was a red glow in the ape's eyes. It had tried to steal his books.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was probably the best proof any wizard could require that the trolleys were brainless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached down and wrenched the wheels off the trolley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ole," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Not "with milk"," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine was having his head cradled in Ludmilla's lap. He had lost a tooth, and his fur was a mess. He opened one eye and fixed Windle with a conspiratorial yellow stare while his ears were stroked. There's a lucky dog, thought Windle, who's going to push his luck and hold up a paw and whine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," said Windle. ‘Now, Librarian... you were about to help us, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Poor brave dog," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine raised a paw pathetically, and whined.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Burdened by the screaming form of the Bursar, the other wire basket couldn't get up to the speed of its departed comrade. One wheel also trailed uselessly. It canted recklessly from side to side and nearly fell over as it shot through the gates, moving sideways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see it clear! I can see it clear!" screamed the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't! You might hit the Bursar!" bellowed Ridcully. ‘You might damage University property!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the Dean couldn't hear for the roar of unaccustomed testosterone. A searing green fireball struck the skewing trolley. The air was filled with flying wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You stupid!" he screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The word he uttered was unfamiliar to those wizards who had not had his robust country upbringing and knew nothing of the finer points of animal husbandry. But it plopped into existence a few inches from his face; it was fat, round, black and glossy, with horrible eyebrows. It blew him an insectile raspberry and flew up to join the little swarm of curses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell was that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A smaller thing flashed into existence by his ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully snatched at his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn!" - the swarm increased by one – "Something just bit me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A squadron of newly-hatched Blasteds made a valiant bid for freedom. He swatted at them ineffectually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get away, you b –" he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't say it!" said the Senior Wrangler. "Shut up!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People never told the Archchancellor to shut up. Shutting up was something that happened to other people. He shut up out of shock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean, every time you swear it comes alive," said the Senior Wrangler hurriedly. "Ghastly little winged things pop out of the air."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloody hellfire!" said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pop. Pop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar crawled dazed out of the tangled wreckage of the wire trolley. He found his pointy hat, dusted it off, tried it on, frowned, and took a wheel out of it. His colleagues didn't seem to be paying him much attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard the Archchancellor say, "But I've always done it! Nothing wrong with a good swear, it keeps the blood flowing. Watch out, Dean, one of the bug -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you say something else?" shouted the Senior Wrangler, above the buzz and whine of the swarm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like...oh...like...darn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Darn?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, or maybe poot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? You want me to say poot?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar crept up to the group. Arguing over petty details at times of dimensional emergency was a familiar wizardly trait.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs. Whitlow the housekeeper always says "Sugar!" when she drops something," he volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor turned on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She may say sugar," he growled, "but what she means, is shi-"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards ducked. Ridcully managed to stop himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, darn," he said miserably. The swearwords settled amiably on his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They like you," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're their daddy," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully scowled. "You b- boys can stop being silly at your Archchancellor's expense and da-jolly well find out what's going on," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards looked expectantly at the air. Nothing appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're doing fine," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "Keep it up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Darn darn darn," said the Archchancellor. "Sugar sugar sugar. Pooty pootity poot. " He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's no good, it doesn't relieve my feelings one bit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's cleared the air, at any rate," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They noticed his presence for the first time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at the remains of the trolley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Things zooming around," said Ridcully. "Things coming alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked up at a suddenly familiar squeaking noise. Two more wheeled baskets rattled across the square outside the gates. One was full of fruit. The other was half full of fruit and half full of small screaming child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards watched open-mouthed. A stream of people were galloping after the trolleys. Slightly in the lead, elbows scything through the air, a desperate and determined woman pounded past the University gates.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor grabbed a heavy-set man who was lumbering along gamely at the back of the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was just loading some peaches into that basket thing when it upped and ran away on me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the child?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Search me. This woman had one of the baskets and she bought some peaches off of me an' then -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all turned. A basket rattled out of the mouth of an alleyway, saw them, turned smartly and shot off across the square.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But why?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're so handy to put things in, right?" said the man. "I got to get them peaches. You know how they bruise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they're all going in the same direction," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "Anyone else notice that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After them!" screamed the Dean. The other wizards, too bewildered to argue, lumbered after him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No -'"Ridcully began, and realised that it was hopeless. And he was losing the initiative. He carefully formulated the most genteel battle cry in the history of bowdlerism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Darn them to Heck!" he yelled, and ran after the Dean.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door worked through the long heavy afternoon at the head of a trail of binders and stackers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Until there was a shout, and the men ran towards the hedge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peedbury's big field was right on the other side. His farmhands were wheeling the Combination Harvester through the gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill joined the others leaning over the hedge. The distant figure of Simnel could be seen, giving instructions. A frightened horse was backed into the shafts. The blacksmith climbed into the little metal seat in the middle of the machinery and took up the reins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The horse walked forward. The sparge arms unfolded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The canvas sheets started to revolve, and probably the riffling screw was turning, but that didn't matter because something somewhere went ‘clonk' and everything stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the crowd at the hedge there were shouts of ‘Get out and milk it!", "We had one but the end fell off!", "Tuppence more and up goes the donkey!" and other time-honoured witticisms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel got down, held a whispered conversation with Peedbury and his men, and then disappeared into the machinery for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll never fly!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Veal will be cheap tomorrow!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time the Combination Harvester got several feet before one of the rotating sheets split and folded up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By now some of the older men at the hedge were doubled up with laughter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any old iron, sixpence a load!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fetch the other one, this one's broke!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel got down again. Distant catcalls drifted towards him as he untied the sheet and replaced it with a new one; he ignored them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Without moving his gaze from the scene in the opposite field, Bill Door pulled a sharpening stone out of his pocket and began to hone his scythe, slowly and deliberately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Apart from the distant clink of the blacksmith's tools, the schip-schip of stone on metal was the only sound in the heavy air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simnel climbed back into the Harvester and nodded to the man leading the horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here we go again!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any more for the Skylark?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Put a sock in it..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cries trailed off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half a dozen pairs of eyes followed the Combination Harvester up the field, stared while it was turned around on the headland, watched it come back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It clicked past, reciprocating and oscillating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the bottom of the field it turned around neatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It whirred by again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while one of the watchers said, gloomily, "It'll never catch on, you mark my words."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right enough. Who's going to want a gadget like that?" said another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure and it's only like a big clock. Can't do anything more than go up and down a field -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- very fast -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- cutting the corn like that and stripping the grain off -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's done three rows already."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bugger me!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't hardly see the bits move! What do you think of that, Bill? Bill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was halfway up his second row, but accelerating.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth opened the door a fraction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she said, suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Bill Door, Miss FIitworth. We've brought him home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened the door wider.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened to him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two men shuffled in awkwardly, trying to support a figure a foot taller than they were. It raised its head and squinted muzzily at Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Duke Bottomley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a devil for working," said William.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know what come over him," said Spigot. ‘You're getting your money's worth out of him all right, Miss Flitworth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll be the first time, then, in these parts," she said sourly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Up and down the field like a madman, trying to better that contraption of Ned Simnel's. Took four of us to do the binding. He nearly beat it, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Put him down on the sofa."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We tole him he was doing too much in all that sun -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Duke craned his neck to see around the kitchen, just in case jewels and treasure were hanging out of the dresser drawers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth eclipsed his view.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you did. Thank you. Now I expect you'll be wanting to be off home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If there's anything we can do -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know where you live. And you ain't paid no rent there for five years, too. Goodbye. Mr. Spigot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ushered them to the door and shut it in their faces, then she turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell have you been doing, Mr. So-Called Bill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM TIRED AND IT WON'T STOP.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door clutched at his skull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALSO SPIGOT GAVE ME A HUMOROUS APPLE JUICE FERMENTED DRINK BECAUSE OF THE HEAT AND NOW I FEEL ILL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't surprised. He makes it up in the woods. Apples isn't the half of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE NEVER FELT ILL BEFORE. OR TIRED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all part of being alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND HOW DO HUMANS STAND IT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, fermented apple juice can help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door sat staring gloomily at the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT WE FINISHED THE FIELD, he said, with a hint of triumph. ALL STACKED IN STOOKS, OR POSSIBLY THE OTHER-WAY AROUND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He clutched at his skull again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AARCH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth disappeared into the scullery. There was the creaking of a pump. She returned with a damp flannel and a glass of water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE'S A NEWT IN IT!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shows it's fresh," said Miss Flitworth, fishing the amphibian out and releasing it on the flagstones, where it scuttled away into a crack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door tried to stand up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOW I ALMOST KNOW WHY SOME PEOPLE WISH TO DIE. he said. I HAD HEARD OF PAIN AND MISERY BUT I HAD NOT HITHERTO FULLY UNDERSTOOD WHAT THEY MEANT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth peered through the dusty window. The clouds that had been piling up all afternoon towered over the hills, grey with a menacing hint of yellow. The heat pressed down like a vice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a big storm coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WILL IT SPOIL MY HARVEST?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. It'll dry out after."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW IS THE CHILD?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door unfolded his palm. Miss Flitworth raised her eyebrows. The golden glass was there, the top bulb almost empty. But it simmered in and out of vision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How come you've got it? It's upstairs! She was holding it like," - she floundered – "like someone holds something very tightly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SHE STILL IS. BUT IT IS ALSO HERE. OR ANYWHERE. IT IS ONLY A METAPHOR. AFTER ALL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What she's holding looks real enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">JUST BECAUSE SOMETHING IS A METAPHOR DOESN'T MEAN IT CAN'T BE REAL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth was aware of a faint echo in the voice, as though the words were being spoken by two people almost, but not quite, in sync.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you got?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A MATTER OF HOURS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the scythe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I GAVE THE BLACKSMITH STRICT INSTRUCTIONS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She frowned. "I'm not saying young Simnel's a bad lad, but are you sure he'll do it? It's asking a lot of a man like him to destroy something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAD NO CHOICE. THE LITTLE FURNACE HERE ISN'T GOOD ENOUGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a wicked sharp scythe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I FEAR IT MAY NOT BE SHARP ENOUGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And no-one ever tried this on you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE IS A SAYING: YOU CAN'T TAKE IT WITH YOU?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE SERIOUSLY BELIEVED IT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember reading once," said Miss Flitworth. "about these heathen kings in the desert somewhere who build huge pyramids and put all sorts of stuff in them. Even boats. Even gels in transparent trousers and a couple of saucepan lids. You can't tell me that's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'VE NEVER BEEN VERY SURE ABOUT WHAT IS RIGHT, said Bill Door. I AM NOT SURE THERE IS SUCH A THING AS RIGHT. OR WRONG. JUST PLACES TO STAND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, right's right and wrong's wrong," said Miss FIitworth. "I was brought up to tell the difference."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BY A CONTRABANDISTOR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A MOVER OF CONTRABAND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing wrong with smuggling!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I MERELY POINT OUT THAT SOME PEOPLE THINK OTHERWISE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They don't count!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lightning struck, somewhere on the hill. The thunder-clap rocked the house; a few bricks from the chimney rattled into the grate. Then the windows shook to a fierce wind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door strode across the room and threw open the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hailstones the size of hens' eggs bounced off the doorstep and into the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH. DRAMA.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, hell!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth ducked under his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And where's the wind come from?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE SKY? said Bill Door, surprised at the sudden excitement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on!" She whirled back into the kitchen and scrabbled on the dresser for a candle lantern and some matches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT YOU SAID IT WOULD DRY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In a normal storm, yes. In this lot? It's going to be ruined! We'll find it spread all over the hill in the morning!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She fumbled the candle alight and ran back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked out into the storm. Straws whirred past, tumbling on the gale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">RUINED? MY HARVEST? He straightened up. BUGGER THAT.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The hail rumbled on the roof of the smithy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ned Simnel pumped the furnace bellows until the heart of the coals was white with the merest hint of yellow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been a good day. The Combination Harvester had worked better than he'd dared to hope; old Peedbury had insisted on keeping it to do another field tomorrow, so it had been left out with a tarpaulin over it, securely tied down. Tomorrow he could teach one of the men to use it, and start work on a new improved model. Success was assured. The future definitely lay ahead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was the matter of the scythe. He went to the wall where it had been hung. A bit of a mystery, that. Here was the most superb instrument of its kind he'd ever seen. You couldn't even blunt it. Its sharpness extended well beyond its actual edge. And yet he was supposed to destroy it. Where was the sense in that? Ned Simnel was a great believer in sense, of a certain specialised kind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe Bill Door just wanted to be rid of it, and that was understandable, because even now when it hung innocuously enough from the wall it seemed to radiate sharpness. There was a faint violet corona around the blade, caused by the draughts in the room driving luckless air molecules to their severed death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ned Simnel picked it up with great care.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Weird fellow, Bill Door. He'd said he wanted to be sure it was absolutely dead. As if you could kill a thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, how could anyone destroy it? Oh, the handle would burn and the metal would calcine and, if he worked hard enough, eventually there'd be nothing more than a little heap of dust and ashes. That was what the customer wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the other hand, presumably you could destroy it just by taking the blade off the handle... After all, it wouldn't be a scythe if you did that. It'd just be, well... bits. Certainly, you could make a scythe out of them, but you could probably do that with the dust and ashes if you knew how to do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ned Simnel was quite pleased with this line of argument.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, after all. Bill Door hadn't even asked for proof that the thing had been, er, killed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took sight carefully and then used the scythe to chop the end off the anvil. Uncanny. Total sharpness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave in. It was unfair. You couldn't ask someone like him to destroy something like this. It was a work of art.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was better than that. It was a work of craft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked across the room to a stack of timber and thrust the scythe well out of the way behind the heap. There was a brief, punctured squeak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, it would be all right. He'd give Bill his farthing back in the morning.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats materialised behind the heap in the forge, and trudged to the sad little heap of fur that had been a rat that got in the way of the scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its ghost was standing beside it, looking apprehensive. It didn't seem very pleased to see him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Squeak? Squeak?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK. the Death of Rats explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Squeak?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK, the Death of Rats confirmed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"[Preen whiskers] [twitch nose]?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats shook its head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rat was crestfallen. The Death of Rats laid a bony but not entirely unkind paw on its shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Squeak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rat nodded sadly. It had been a good life in the forge. Ned's housekeeping was almost non-existent, and he was probably the world champion absent-minded-leaver of unfinished sandwiches. It shrugged, and trooped after the small robed figure. It wasn't as if it had any choice.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">People were streaming through the streets. Most of them were chasing trolleys. Most of the trolleys were full of whatever people had found a trolley useful to carry - firewood, children, shopping.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And they were no longer dodging, but moving blindly, all in the same direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You could stop a trolley by turning it over, when its wheels spun madly and uselessly. The wizards saw a number of enthusiastic individuals trying to smash them, but the trolleys were practically indestructible - they bent but didn't break, and if they had even one wheel left they'd make a valiant attempt to keep going.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at that one!" said the Archchancellor. ‘It's got my laundry in it! My actual laundry! Darn that for a lark!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pushed his way through the crowds and rammed his staff into the trolley's wheels, toppling it over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can't get a clear shot at anything with all these civilians around," complained the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's hundreds of trolleys!" said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "It's just like vermine! Get away from me, you - you basket!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flailed at an importunate trolley with his staff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tide of wheeled baskets was flowing out of the city. The struggling humans gradually dropped out or fell under the wobbling wheels. Only the wizards stayed in the flowing tide, shouting at one another and attacking the silvery swarm with their staves. It wasn't that magic didn't work. It worked quite well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A good zap could turn a trolley into a thousand intricate little wire puzzles. But what good did that do? A moment later two others would trundle over their stricken sibling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Around the Dean trolleys were being splashed into metal droplets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's really getting the hang of it, isn't he?" said the Senior Wrangler, as he and the Bursar levered yet another basket on to its back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's certainly saying Yo a lot," said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean himself didn't know when he'd been happier. For sixty years he'd been obeying all the self-regulating rules of wizardry, and suddenly he was having the time of his life. He'd never realised that, deep down inside, what he really wanted to do was make things go splat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fire leapt from the tip of his staff. Handles and bits of wire and pathetically spinning wheels tinkled down around him. And what made it even better was that there was no end to the targets. A second wave of trolleys, crammed into a tighter space, was trying to advance over the tops of those still in actual contact with the ground. It wasn't working, but they were trying anyway. And trying desperately, because a third wave was already crunching and smashing its way over the top of them. Except that you couldn't use the word "trying". It suggested some sort of conscious effort, some sort of possibility that there might also be a state of ‘not trying'. Something about the relentless movement, the way they crushed one another in their surge, suggested that the wire baskets had as much choice in the matter as water has about flowing downhill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" shouted the Dean. Raw magic smacked into the grinding tangle of metal. It rained wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eat hot thaumaturgy, you m-," the Dean began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't swear! Don't swear!" shouted Ridcully above the noise. He tried to swat a Silly Bugger that was orbiting his hat. "There's no telling what it might turn into!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bother!" screamed the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's no good. We might as well be trying to hold back the sea," said the Senior Wrangler. "I vote we head back to the University and pick up some really tough spells."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea," said Ridcully. He looked up at the advancing wall of twisted wire. "Any idea how?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo! Scallywags!" said the Dean. He aimed his staff again. It made a sad little noise that, if it was written down, could only be spelled pfffft. A feeble spark fell off the end and on to the cobbles.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons slammed another book shut. The Librarian winced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing! Volcanoes, tidal waves, wrath of gods, meddling wizards... I don't want to know how other cities have been killed, I want to know how they ended..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian stacked another pile of books on the reading desk. Another plus about being dead, Windle was finding, was an ability with languages. He could see the sense in the words without knowing the actual meaning. Being dead wasn't like falling asleep after all. It was like waking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced across the Library to where Lupine was having his paw bandaged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Librarian?" he said softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've changed species in your time... what would you do if, for the sake of argument, you found a couple of people who... well, suppose there was a wolf that changed into a wolfman at the full moon, and a woman that changed into a wolfwoman at the full moon... you know, approaching the same shape but from opposite directions? And they'd met. What do you tell them? Do you let them sort it out for themselves?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook, " said the Librarian, instantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's tempting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs. Cake wouldn't like it, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eeek oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right. You could have put it a little less coarsely, but you're right. Everyone has to sort things out for themselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed, and turned the page. His eyes widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The city of Kahn Li," he said. "Ever heard of it? What's this book? "Stripfettle's Believe-It-Or-Not Grimoire. " Says here... "little carts... none knew from where they came... of such great use, men were employed to herd them and bring them into the city... of a sudden, like unto a rush of creatures... men followed them and behold, there was a new city outside the walls, a city as of merchants' booths wherein the carts ran"..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned the page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It seems to say..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I still haven't understood it properly, he told himself. One-Man-Bucket thinks we're talking about the breeding of cities. But that doesn't feel right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A city is alive. Supposing you were a great slow giant, like a Counting Pine, and looked down at a city?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You'd see buildings grow; you'd see attackers driven off; you'd see fires put out. You'd see the city was alive but you wouldn't see people, because they'd move too fast. The life of a city, the thing that drives it, isn't some sort of mysterious force. The life of a city is people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned the pages absently, not really looking...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So we have the cities - big, sedentary creatures, growing from one spot and hardly moving at all for thousands of years. They breed by sending out people to colonise new land. They themselves just lie there. They're alive, but only in the same way that a jelly fish is alive. Or a fairly bright vegetable. After all, we call Ankh-Morpork the Big Wahooni...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And where you get big slow living things, you get small fast things that eat them...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons felt the brain cells firing. Connections were made. Thought gushed along new channels. Had he ever really thought properly when he was alive? He doubted it. He'd just been a lot of complicated reactions attached to a lot of nerve endings, with everything from idle rumination about the next meal to random, distracting memories getting between him and real thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It'd grow inside the city, where it's warm and protected. And then it'd break out, outside the city, and build... something, not a real city, a false city... that pulls the people, the life, out of the host...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The word we're looking for here is predator.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean stared at his staff in disbelief. He gave it a shake, and aimed it again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time the sound would be spelled pfwt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up. A curling wave of trolleys, rooftop high, was poised to fall on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh... shucks," he said, and folded his arms over his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone grabbed the back of his robe and pulled him away as the trolleys crashed down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said Ridcully. ‘If we run we can keep ahead of ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm out of magic! I'm out of magic!" moaned the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll be out of a lot more if you don't hurry, " said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trying to keep together, bumping into one another, the wizards staggered ahead of the trolleys. Streams of them were surging out of the city and across the fields.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Know what this reminds me of?" said Ridcully, as they fought their way through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do tell, " muttered the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Salmon run, " said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not in the Ankh, of course," said Ridcully. "I don't reckon a salmon could get upstream in our river - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unless it walked," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- but I've seen ‘em thick as milk in some rivers," said Ridcully. "Fightin‘ to get ahead. The whole river just a mass of silver."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, fine," said the Senior Wrangler. ‘What'd they do that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... it's all to do with breeding."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Disgusting. And to think we have to drink water," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, we're in the open now, this is where we out-flank ‘em," said Ridcully. "We'll just aim for a clear space and - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Every direction was filled with an advancing, grinding, fighting wall of trolleys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're coming to get us! They're coming to get us!" wailed the Bursar. The Dean snatched his staff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, that's mine!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean pushed him away and blew off the wheels of a leading trolley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's my staff!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards stood back to back in a narrowing ring of metal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not right for this city, " said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know what you mean, " said Ridcully. "Alien."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose no-one's got a flying spell on them today?" the Senior Wrangler enquired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean took aim again and melted a basket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's my staff you're using, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, Bursar," said the Archchancellor. ‘And, Dean, you're getting nowhere picking them off one by one like that. OK, lads? We want to do them all as much damage as possible. Remember - wild, uncontrolled bursts..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolleys advanced.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ow. Ow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth staggered through the wet, rattling gloom. Hailstones crunched underfoot. Thunder cannonaded around the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They sting, don't they," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEY ECHO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door fielded a stook as it was blown past, and stacked it with the others. Miss Flitworth scuttled past him, bent double under a load of corn. The two of them worked steadily, crisscrossing the field in the teeth of the storm to snatch up the harvest before the wind and hail stole it away. Lightning flickered around the sky. It wasn't a normal storm. It was war.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's going to pour with rain in a minute. " screamed Miss Flitworth, above the noise. ‘We'll never get it down to the barn! Go and fetch a tarpaulin or something! That'll do for tonight!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door nodded, and ran through the squelching darkness towards the farm buildings. Lightning was striking so many times around the fields that the air itself was sizzling, and a corona danced along the top of the hedge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He saw it looming ahead of him, a crouched skeletal shape poised to spring, its robe flapping and rattling behind it in the wind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tightness gripped him, trying to force him to run while at the same time rooting him to the spot. It invaded his mind and froze there, blocking all thought save for the innermost, tiny voice which said, quite calmly: SO THlS IS TERROR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Death vanished as the lightning glow faded, reappeared as a tree was struck on the next hill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the quiet, internal voice added: BUT WHY DOESN'T IT MOVE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door let himself inch forward slightly. There was no response from the hunched thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it dawned on him that the thing on the other side of the hedge was only a robed assemblage of ribs and femurs and vertebrae if viewed from one point of view but, if looked at slightly differently, was equally just a complexity of sparging arms and reciprocating levers that had been covered by a tarpaulin which was now blowing off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Combination Harvester was in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door grinned horribly. Un-Bill Door thoughts rose up in his mind. He stepped forward.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wall of trolleys surrounded the wizards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The last flare from a staff melted a hole, which was instantly filled up by more trolleys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully turned to his fellow wizards. They were red in the face, their robes were torn, and several over-enthusiastic shots had resulted in singed beards and burnt hats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hasn't anyone got any more spells on them?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They thought feverishly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I can remember one," said the Bursar hesitantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on, man. Anything's worth trying at a time like this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar stretched out a hand. He shut his eyes. He muttered a few syllables under his breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief flicker of octarine light and -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, " said the Archchancellor. ‘And that's all of it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" "Eringyas' Surprising Bouquet"," said the Bursar, bright eyed and twitching. "I don't know why, but it's one I've always been able to do. Just a knack, I suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully eyed the huge bunch of flowers now gripped in the Bursar's fist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But not, I venture to point out, entirely useful at this time," he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar looked at the approaching walls and his smile faded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose not," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyone else got any ideas?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no reply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice roses, though," said the Dean.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was quick," said Miss Flitworth, when Bill Door arrived at the pile of stooks dragging a tarpaulin behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES, WASN'T IT, he mumbled noncommittally, as she helped him drag it over the stack and weigh it down with stones. The wind caught at it and tried to drag it out of his hands; it might as well have tried to blow a mountain over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rain swept over the fields, among shreds of mist that shimmered with blue electric energies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never known a night like it," Miss Flitworth said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another crack of thunder. Sheet lightning fluttered around the horizon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth clutched Bill Door's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't that... a figure on the hill?" she said. ‘Thought I saw a...shape."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, IT'S MERELY A MECHANICAL CONTRIVANCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another flash.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On a horse?" said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A third sheet seared across the sky. And this time there was no doubt about it. There was a mounted figure on the nearest hilltop. Hooded. Holding a scythe as proudly as a lance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">POSING. Bill Door turned towards Miss Flitworth. POSING. I NEVER DID ANYTHING LIKE THAT. WHY DO ANYTHING LIKE THAT? WHAT PURPOSE DOES IT SERVE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his palm. The gold timer appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How much longer have you got?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PERHAPS AN HOUR. PERHAPS MINUTES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, then!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door remained where he was, looking at the timer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said, come on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WON'T WORK. I WAS WRONG TO THINK THAT IT WOULD. BUT IT WON'T. THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT YOU CANNOT ESCAPE. YOU CANNOT LIVE FOREVER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked shocked. WHAT DO YOU MEAN?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why can't you live for ever?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T KNOW. COSMIC WISDOM?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does cosmic wisdom know about it? Now, will you come on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure on the hill hadn't moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rain had turned the dust into a fine mud. They slithered down the slope and hurried across the yard and into the house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SHOULD HAVE PREPARED MORE. I HAD PLANS -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But there was the harvest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there any way we can barricade the doors or something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE SAYING?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, think of something! Didn't anything ever work against you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, said Bill Door with a tiny touch of pride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth peered out of the window, and then flung herself dramatically against the wall on one side of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's gone!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT, said Bill Door. IT WON'T BE A HE YET.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's gone. It could be anywhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT CAN COME THROUGH THE WALL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She darted forward, and then glared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">VERY WELL. FETCH THE CHILD. I THINK WE SHOULD LEAVE HERE. A thought struck him. He brightened up a little bit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WE DO HAVE SOME TIME. WHAT IS THE HOUR?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. You go around stopping the clocks the whole time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT IT IS NOT YET MIDNIGHT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think it's more than a quarter past eleven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEN WE HAVE THREE-QUARTERS OF AN HOUR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you be sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BECAUSE OF DRAMA, MISS FLITWORTH. THE KIND OF DEATH WHO POSES AGAINST THE SKYLINE AND GETS LIT UP BY LIGHTNING FLASHES, said Bill Door, disapprovingly, DOESN'T TURN UP AT FIVE AND-TWENTY PAST ELEVEN IF HE CAN POSSIBLY TURN UP AT MIDNIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded, white-faced, and disappeared upstairs. After a minute or two she returned, with Sal wrapped up in a blanket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Still fast asleep," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT'S NOT SLEEP.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rain had stopped, but the storm still marched around the hills. The air sizzled, still seemed oven-hot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door led the way past the henhouse, where Cyril and his elderly harem were crouched back in the darkness, all trying to occupy the same few inches of perch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a pale green glow hovering around the farmhouse chimney.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We call that Mother Carey's Fire," said Miss Flitworth. "It's an omen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AN OMEN OF WHAT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh, don't ask me. Just an omen, I suppose. Just basic omenery. Where are we going?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">INTO THE TOWN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To be near the scythe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He disappeared into the barn. After a while he came out leading Binky, saddled and harnessed. He mounted up, then leaned down and pulled both her and the sleeping child on to the horse in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IF I'M WRONG, he added, THIS HORSE WILL TAKE YOU WHEREVER YOU WANT TO GO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shan't want to go anywhere except back home!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHEREVER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky broke into a trot as they turned on to the road to the town. Wind blew the leaves off the trees, which tumbled past them and on up the road. The occasional flash of lightning still hissed across the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth looked at the hill beyond the farm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I KNOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- it's there again -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I KNOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why isn't it chasing us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WE'RE SAFE UNTIL THE SAND RUNS OUT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you die when the sand runs out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. WHEN THE SAND RUNS OUT IS WHEN I SHOULD DIE. I WILL BE IN THE SPACE BETWEEN LIFE AND AFTERLIFE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill, it looked as though the thing it was riding... I thought it was a proper horse, just very skinny, but..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S A SKELETAL STEED. IMPRESSIVE BUT IMPRACTICAL. I HAD ONE ONCE BUT THE HEAD FELL OFF.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A bit like flogging a dead horse, I should think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HA. HA. MOST AMUSING, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that at a time like this you can stop calling me Miss Flitworth," said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">RENATA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked startled. ‘How did you know my name? Oh. You've probably seen it written down, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ENGRAVED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On one of them hourglasses?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With all them sands of time pouring through?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone's got one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you know how long I've -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It must be very odd, knowing... the kind of things you know..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO NOT ASK ME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not fair, you know. If we knew when we were going to die, people would live better lives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IF PEOPLE KNEW WHEN THEY WERE GOING TO DIE, I THINK THEY PROBABLY WOULDN'T LIVE AT ALL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, very gnomic. And what do you know about it, Bill Door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">EVERYTHING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky trotted up one of the town's meagre handful of streets and over the cobbles of the square. There was no-one else around. In cities like Ankh-Morpork midnight was just late evening, because there was no civic night at all, just evenings fading into dawns. But here people regulated their lives by things like sunsets and mispronounced cockcrows. Midnight meant what it said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even with the storm stalking the hills, the square itself was hushed. The ticking of the clock in its tower, unnoticeable at midday, now seemed to echo off the buildings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As they approached, something whirred deep in its cogwheeled innards. The minute hand moved with a clonk, and shuddered to a halt on the 9. A trapdoor opened in the clock face and two little mechanical figures whirred out self-importantly and tapped a small bell with great apparent effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ting-ting-ling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figures lined up and wobbled back into the clock.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've been there ever since I was a girl. Mr. Simnel's great-great-grandad made them," said Miss Flitworth. "I always wondered what they did between chimes, you know. I thought they had a little house in there, or something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T THINK SO. THEY'RE JUST A THING. THEY'RE NOT ALIVE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. Well, they've been there for hundreds of years. Maybe life is something you sort of acquire?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They waited in silence, except for the occasional thud as the minute hand climbed the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's been quite nice having you around the place, Bill Door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't reply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Helping me with the harvest and everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS... INTERESTING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was wrong of me to delay you, just for a lot of corn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. THE HARVEST IS IMPORTANT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door unfolded his palm. The timer appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I still can't work out how you do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT IS NOT DIFFICULT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hiss of the sand grew until it filled the square.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you got any last words?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. I DON'T WANT TO GO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. Succinct, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was amazed to find she was trying to hold his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above him the hands of midnight came together. There was a whirring from the clock. The door opened. The automata marched out. They clicked to a halt on either side of the hour bell, bowed to one another, and raised their hammers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was the sound of a horse trotting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth found the edge of her vision filling with purple and blue blotches, like the flashes of after-image with no image to come after.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If she jerked her head quickly and peered out of the tail of her eye, she could see small greyclad shapes hovering around the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Revenooers, she thought. They've come to make sure it all happens.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He closed his palm over the gold timer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOW IT STARTS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hoofbeats grew louder, and echoed off the buildings behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">REMEMBER: YOU ARE IN NO DANGER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door stepped back into the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he reappeared momentarily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PROBABLY, he added, and retreated into the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth sat down on the steps of the clock, cradling the body of the girl across her knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill?" she ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A mounted figure rode into the square.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, indeed on a skeletal horse. Blue flame crackled over the creature's bones as it trotted forward; Miss Flitworth found herself wondering whether it was a real skeleton, animated in some way, something that had once been the inside of a horse, or a skeletal creature in its own right. It was a ridiculous chain of thought to follow, but it was better than dwelling on the ghastly reality that was approaching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did it get rubbed down, or just given a good polish?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its rider dismounted. It was much taller than Bill Door had been, but the darkness of its robe hid any details; It held something that wasn't exactly a scythe but which might have had a scythe in its ancestry in the same way that even the most cunningly-fashioned surgical implement has a stick somewhere in its past. It was a long way from any implement that ever touched a straw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure stalked towards Miss Flitworth, scythe over its shoulder, and stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where is He?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know who you're talking about," said Miss Flitworth. "And if I was you, young man, I'd feed my horse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure appeared to have trouble digesting this information, but finally it seemed to reach a conclusion. It unshipped the scythe and looked down at the child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I will find Him, it said. But first -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stiffened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice behind it said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DROP THE SCYTHE. AND TURN AROUND SLOWLY.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Something within the city, Windle thought. Cities grow up full of people, but they're also full of commerce and shops and religions and...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is stupid, he told himself. They're just things. They're not alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe life is something you acquire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Parasites and predators, but not like the sort affecting animals and vegetables. They were some kind of big, slower, metaphorical lifeform, living off cities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But they incubate in the cities, like those, what are they? those icky newman wasp things. He could remember now, just as he could remember everything, reading as a student about creatures that laid their eggs inside other creatures. For months after he'd refused omelettes and caviar, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the eggs would... look like the city, in a way, so that citizens would carry them home. Like cuckoo eggs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wonder how many cities died in the past? Ringed by parasites, like a coral reef surrounded by starfish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd just become empty, they'd lose whatever spirit they had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's everyone gone, Librarian?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just like them. I'd have done that. Rush off without thinking. May the gods bless them and help them, if they can find the time from their eternal family squabbles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he thought: well, what now? I've thought, and what am I going to do? Rush off, of course. But slowly.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The centre of the heap of trolleys was no longer visible. Something was going on. A pale blue glow hung over the huge pyramid of twisted metal, and there were occasional flashes of lightning deep within the pile. Trolleys slammed into it like asteroids accreting around the core of a new planet, but a few arrivals did something else. They headed for tunnels that had opened within the structure, and disappeared into the glittering core.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was a movement at the tip of the mountain and something thrust its way up through the broken metal. It was a glistening spike, supporting a globe about two metres across. It did nothing very much for a minute or two and then, as the breeze dried it out, it split and crumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">White objects cascaded out, were caught by the wind, and fountained over Ankh-Morpork and the watching crowds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of them zig-zagged gently down across the rooftops and landed at the feet of Windle Poons as he lurched outside the Library.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was still damp, and there was writing on it. At least, an attempt at writing. It looked like the strange organic inscription of the snowflake balls - words created by something that was not at all at home with words:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">So\le   S~l~ I I  solre!~~</div>
   <div class="paragraph">d        b,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">S~Q~--%S to/70rro~*-,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle reached the University gateway. People were streaming past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle knew his fellow citizens. They'd go to look at anything. They were suckers for anything written down with more than one exclamation mark after it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt someone looking at him, and turned. A trolley was watching from an alleyway; it backed up and whizzed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening, Mr. Poons?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something unreal about the expression of the passers-by. They wore an expression of unbudgeable anticipation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You didn't have to be a wizard to know that something was wrong. And Windle's senses were whining like a dynamo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine leapt at a drifting sheet of paper and brought it to him.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">~\M,..i\09  recloctio~s ir)~l</div>
   <div class="paragraph">J             ~ooo,</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle shook his head sadly. Five exclamation marks, the sure sign of an insane mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he heard the music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine sat back on his haunches and howled.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the cellar under Mrs. Cake's house, Schleppel the bogeyman paused halfway through his third rat and listened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he finished his meal and reached for his door.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Count Arthur Winkings Notfaroutoe was working on the crypt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Personally, he could have lived, or re-lived, or un-lived, or whatever it was he was supposed to be doing, without a crypt. But you had to have a crypt. Doreen had been very definite about the crypt. It gave the place ton, she said. You had to have a crypt anal a vault, otherwise the rest of vampire society would look down their teeth at you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They never told you about that sort of thing when you started vampiring. They never told you to build your own crypt out of some cheap two-by-four from Challry the Troll's Wholesale Building Supplies. It wasn't something that happened to most vampires, Arthur reflected. Not your proper vampires. Your actual Count Jugular, for example. No, a toff like him'd have someone for it. When the villagers came to burn the place down, you wouldn't catch the Count his own self whipping down to the gate to drop the draw-bridge. Oh, no. He'd just say, "Igor' - as it might be - ‘Igor, just svort it out, chop chop'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Huh. Well, they'd had an advert in Mr. Keeble's job shop for months now. Bed, three meals a day, and hump provided if necessary. Not so much as an enquiry. And people said there was all this unemployment around. It made you livid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up another piece of wood and measured it, grimacing as he unfolded the ruler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Arthur's back ached from digging the moat. And that was another thing your posh vampire didn't have to worry about. The moat came with the job, style of thing. And it went all the way round, because other vampires didn't have the street out in front of them and old Mrs. Pivey complaining on one side and a family of trolls Doreen wasn't speaking to on the other and therefore they didn't end up with a moat that just went across the back yard. Arthur kept falling in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was the biting the necks of young women. Or rather, there wasn't. Arthur was always prepared to see the other person's point of view, but he felt certain that young women came into the vampiring somewhere, whatever Doreen said. In diaphanous pegnoyers. Arthur wasn't quite certain what a diaphanous pegnoyer was, but he'd read about them and he definitely felt that he'd like to see one before he died... or whatever...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And other vampires didn't suddenly find their wives talking with Vs instead of Ws. The reason being, your natural vampire talked like that anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Arthur sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was no life, or half-life or after-life or whatever it was, being a lower-middle-class wholesale fruit and vegetable merchant with an upper-class condition.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the music filtered in through the hole in the wall that he'd knocked out to put in the barred window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ow," he said, and clutched at his jaw. ‘Doreen?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe thumped his portable podium.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- and, let me see, we shall not lie back and let the grass grow over our heads," he bellowed. "So what is your seven-point plan for Equal Opportunities with the living, I hear you cry?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind blew the dried grasses in the cemetery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only creature apparently paying any attention to Reg was a solitary raven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe shrugged and lowered his voice. "You might at least make some effort," he said, to the next world at large. "Here's me wearing my fingers to the bone" - he flexed his hands to demonstrate – "and do I hear a word of thanks?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The raven, which was one of the extra large, fat ones that infested the rooftops of the University, put its head on one side and gave Reg Shoe a thoughtful look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said Reg, "sometimes I just feel like giving up -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The raven cleared its throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe spun around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You say one word, " he said, "just one bloody word..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he heard the music.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla risked removing her hands from her ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's horrible! What is it, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle tried to pull the remains of his hat over his ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know," he said. "It could be music. If you'd never heard music before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There weren't notes. There were strung-together noises that might have been intended to be notes, put together as one might draw a map of a country that one had never seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hnyip. Ynyip. Hulyomp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's coming from outside the city," said Ludmilla. ‘Where all the people... are... going... They can't like it, can they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't imagine why they should," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's just that... you remember the trouble with the rats last year? That man who said he had a pipe that played music only rats could hear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but that wasn't really true, it was all a fraud, it was just the Amazing Maurice and his Educated Rodents -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But supposing it could have been true?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Music to attract humans? Is that what you're getting at? But that can't be true. It's not attracting us. Quite the reverse, I assure you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but you're not human... exactly," said Ludmilla. "And –" She stopped, and went red in the face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle patted her on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good point. Good point," was all he could think of to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, don't you," she said, without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I don't think it's anything to be ashamed of, if that's any help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mother said it would be dreadful if anyone ever found out!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That probably depends on who it is," said Windle, glancing at Lupine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why is your dog staring at me like that?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's very intelligent," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle felt in his pocket, tipped out a couple of handfuls of soil, and unearthed his diary. Twenty days to next full moon. Still, it'd be something to look forward to.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The metal debris of the heap started to collapse. Trolleys whirred around it, and a large crowd of Ankh-Morpork's citizens were standing in a big circle, trying to peer inside. The unmusical music filled the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's Mr. Dibbler," said Ludmilla, as they pushed their way through the unresisting people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's he selling this time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think he's trying to sell anything, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's that bad? Then we're probably in lots of trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blue light shone out from one of the holes in the heap. Bits of broken trolley tinkled to the ground like metal leaves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle bent down stiffly and picked up a pointy hat. It was battered and had been run over by a lot of trolleys, but it was still recognisable as something that by rights should be on someone's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's wizards in there," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silver light glittered off the metal. It moved like oil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle reached out and a fat spark jumped across and grounded itself on his fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," he said. "Lot of potential, too -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he heard the cry of the vampires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo-ee, Mr. Poons!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned. The Notfaroutoes were bearing down on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We - I mean, Ve vould have been here sooner, only -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- I couldn't find the blasted collar stud," muttered Arthur, looking hot and flustered. He was wearing a collapsible opera hat, which was fine on the collapsible part but regrettably lacking in hatness, so that Arthur appeared to be looking at the world from under a concertina.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, hallo," said Windle. There was something dreadfully fascinating about the Winkings' dedication to accurate vampirism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unt who iss the yunk laty?" said Doreen, beaming at Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pardon?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Vot?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doreen - I mean, the Countess asked who she is," Arthur supplied, wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I understood what I said," snapped Doreen, in the more normal tones of one born and brought up in Ankh-Morpork rather than some tran-sylvanian fastness. "Honestly, if I left it to you, we'd have no standards at all -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name's Ludmilla, " said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Charmed," said the Countess Notfaroutoe graciously, extending a hand that would have been thin and pale if it had not been pink and stubby. "Alvays nice to meet fresh blood. If you ever fancy a dog biscuit when you're out and about, our door iss alwace open."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla turned to Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not written on my forehead, is it?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"These are a special kind of people. " said Windle gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should think so," said Ludmilla, levelly. "I hardly know anyone who wears an opera cloak the whole time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to have the cloak," said Count Arthur. "For the wings, you see. Like -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spread the cloak dramatically. There was a brief, implosive noise, and a small fat bat hung in the air. It looked down, gave an angry squeak, and nosedived on to the soil. Doreen picked it up by its feet and dusted it off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's having to sleep with the window open all night that I object to," she said vaguely. "I wish they'd stop that music! I'm getting a headache."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another whoomph. Arthur reappeared upside down and landed on his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the drop, you see," said Doreen. "It's like a run-up, sort of thing. If he doesn't get at least a one storey start he can't get up a proper airspeed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't get a proper airspeed," said Arthur, struggling to his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, " said Windle, "The music doesn't affect you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It puts my teeth on edge is what it does," said Arthur. "Which is not a good thing for a vampire, I prob'ly don't have to tell you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons thinks it does something to people," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sets everyone's teeth on edge?" said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked at the crowd. No-one was taking any notice of the Fresh Starters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They look as though they're waiting for something," said Doreen. "Vaiting, I mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's scary, " said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing wrong with scary," said Doreen. "We're scary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons wants to go inside the heap," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea. Get them to turn that damn music off," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you could get killed!" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle clapped his hands together, and rubbed them thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," he said, "that's where we're ahead of the game."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked into the glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd never seen such bright light. It seemed to emanate from everywhere, hunting down every last shadow and eradicating it ruthlessly. It was much brighter than daylight without being anything like it - there was a blue edge to it that cut vision like a knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right, Count?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, fine," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine growled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla pulled at a tangle of metal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's something under this, you know. It looks like... marble. Orange-coloured marble. " She ran her hand over it. "But warm. Marble shouldn't be warm, should it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be marble. There can't be this much marble in the whole world... vorld, " said Doreen. "We tried to get marble for the vault," she tasted the sound of the word and nodded to herself, "the vault, yes. Those dwarfs should be shot, the prices they charge. It's a disgrace."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think dwarfs built this," said Windle. He knelt down awkwardly to examine the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think so, the lazy little buggers. They wanted nearly seventy dollars to do our vault. Didn't they, Arthur?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nearly seventy dollars," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think anyone built it," said Windle quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cracks. There should be cracks, he thought. Edges and things, where one slab joins another. It shouldn't be all one piece. And slightly sticky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So Arthur did it himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I did it myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. Here was an edge. Well, not exactly an edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The marble became clear, like a window, looking into another brightly lit space. There were things in there, indistinct and melted-looking, but no way in to them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chatter of the Winkings flowed over him as he crepe forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- more of a vaultette, really. But he got a dungeon in, even if you have to go out into the hall to shut the door properly -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gentility meant all sorts of things, Windle thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To some people it was not being a vampire. To others it was a matched set of flying plaster bats on the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran his fingers over the clear substance. The world here was all rectangles. There were corners, and the corridor was lined on both sides with the clear panels. And the non-music played all the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It couldn't be alive, could it? Life was... more rounded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think, Lupine?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine barked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. Not a lot of help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla knelt down and put her hand on Windle's shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you mean, no-one built it?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle scratched his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure... but I think maybe it was... secreted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Secreted? From what? By what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked up. A trolley whirred out of the mouth of a side corridor and skidded away down another on the opposite side of the passage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Them?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think so. I think they're more like servants. Like ants. Bees in a hive, maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the honey?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not sure. But it's not ripe yet. I don't think things are quite finished. No-one touch anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They walked onward. The passage opened up into a wide, bright, domed area. Stairways led up and down to different floors, and there was a fountain and a grove of potted plants that looked too healthy to be real.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't it nice?" said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You keep thinking there should be people," said Ludmilla. "Lots of people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There should at least be wizards," muttered Windle Poons. "Half a dozen wizards don't just disappear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The five of them moved closer. Passages the size of the one they'd just walked down could have accommodated a couple of elephants walking abreast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you think it might be a good idea to go back outside?" said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What good would that do?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it'd get us out of here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle turned, counting. Five of the passages radiated equidistantly-out of the domed area.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And presumably it's the same above and below, " he said aloud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's very clean here, " Doreen said nervously. "Isn't it clean, Arthur?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's very clean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that noise?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What noise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That noise. Like someone sucking something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Arthur looked around with a certain amount of interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the stairs," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be silly, Mr. Poons. Stairs don't suck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"These do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were black, like a sloping river. As the dark substance flowed out from under the floor it humped itself into something resembling steps, which travelled up the slope until they disappeared under the floor again, somewhere above. When the steps emerged they made a slow, rhythmic shlup-shlup noise, like someone investigating a particularly annoying dental cavity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know," said Ludmilla, "that's quite possibly the most unpleasant thing I've ever seen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen worse," said Windle. "But it's pretty bad. Shall we go up or down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to stand on them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. But the wizards aren't on this floor and it's that or slide down the handrail. Have you looked closely at the handrail?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at the handrail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," said Doreen nervously, "that down is more us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They went down in silence. Arthur fell over at the point where the travelling stairs were sucked into the floor again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had this horrible feeling it was going to drag me under," he said apologetically, and then looked around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's big," he concluded. "Roomy. I could do wonders down here with some stone-effect wallpaper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla wandered over to the nearest wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," she said, "there's more glass than I've seen before, but these clear bits look a bit like shops. Does that make sense? A great big shop full of shops?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And not ripe yet," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just thinking aloud. Can you see what the merchandise is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla shaded her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It just looks like a lot of colour and glitter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me know if you see a wizard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or hear one, for example," Windle added. Lupine bounded off down a passageway. Windle lurched swiftly after him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone was on their back, trying desperately to fight off a couple of the trolleys. They were bigger than the ones Windle had seen before, with a golden sheen to them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey!" he yelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stopped trying to gore the prone figure and three-point-turned towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, " he said, as they got up speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first one dodged Lupine's jaws and butted Windle full in the knees, knocking him over. As the second passed over him he reached up wildly, grabbed randomly at the metal, and pulled hard. A wheel spun off and the trolley cartwheeled into the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He scrambled up in time to see Arthur hanging grimly on to the handle of the other trolley as the two of them whirred around in a mad centrifugal waltz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let go! Let go!" Doreen screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't! I can't!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, do something!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a pop of inrushing air. The trolley was suddenly not straining against the weight of a middle-aged wholesale, fruit and vegetable entrepreneur but only against a small terrified bat. It rocketed into a marble pillar, bounced off, hit a wall and landed on its back, wheels spinning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The wheels!" shouted Ludmilla. "Pull the wheels off!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll do that," said Windle. "You help Reg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that Reg down there?" said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle jerked his thumb towards the distant wall. The words "Better late than nev" ended in a desperate streak of paint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Show him a wall and a paint pot and he doesn't know what world he's in," said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's only got a choice of two," said Windle, throwing the trolley wheels across the floor. "Lupine, keep a look-out in case there's any more."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wheels had been sharp, like ice skates. He was definitely feeling tattered around the legs. Now, how did healing go?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe was helped into a sitting position.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?" he said. "No-one else was coming in, and I came down here to see where the music was coming from, and the next thing, there's these wheels -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Count Arthur returned to his approximately human form, looked around proudly, realised that no-one was paying him any attention, and sagged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They looked a lot tougher than the others," said Ludmilla. "Bigger and nastier and covered in sharp edges."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soldiers," said Windle. ‘We've seen the workers. And now there's soldiers. Just like ants."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had an ant farm when I was a lad," said Arthur, who had hit the floor rather heavily and was having temporary trouble with the nature of reality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hang on," said Ludmilla. "I know about ants. We have ants in the back yard. If you have workers and soldiers, then you must also have a -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. I know," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- mind you, they called it a farm, I never saw them doing any farming -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla leaned against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll be somewhere close," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think so, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does it look like, do you think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- what you do is, you get two bits of glass and some ants -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. How should I know? But the wizards will be somewhere near it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see vy you're bothering about them," said Doreen. ‘They buried you alive just because you vere dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked up at the sound of wheels. A dozen warrior baskets turned the corner and pulled up in formation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They thought they were doing it for the best," said Windle. "People often do. It's amazing, the things that seem a good idea at the time."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death straightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door stepped back, turned round, and ran for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, as he was wonderfully well placed to know, merely putting off the inevitable. But wasn't that what living was all about?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one had ever run away from him after they were dead. Many had tried it before they were dead, often with great ingenuity. But the normal reaction of a spirit, suddenly pitched from one world into the next, was to hang around hopefully. Why run, after all? It wasn't as if you knew where you were running to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ghost Bill Door knew where he was running to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ned Simnel's smithy was locked up for the night, although this did not present a problem. Not alive and not dead, the spirit Bill Door dived through the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fire was a barely-visible glow, settling in the forge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smithy was full of warm darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What it didn't contain was the ghost of a scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked around desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a small dark-robed figure sitting on a beam above him. It gestured frantically towards the corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He saw a dark handle sticking out from the load of timber. He tried to pull at it with fingers now as substantial as a shadow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HE SAID HE WOULD DESTROY IT FOR ME!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats shrugged sympathetically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death stepped through the wall, scythe held in both hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It advanced on Bill Door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a rustling. The grey robes were pouring into the smithy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door grinned in terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death stopped, posing dramatically in the glow from the forge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It swung.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It almost lost its balance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You‘re not supposed to duck!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door dived through the wall again and pounded across the square, skull down, spectral feet making no noise on the cobbles. He reached the little group by the clock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ON THE HORSE! GO!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening? What's happening!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT HASN'T WORKED!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth gave him a panicky look but put the unconscious child on Binky's back and climbed up after her. Then Bill Door brought his hand down hard on the horse's flank. There at least there was contact - Binky existed in all worlds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Go!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't look around but darted on up the road towards the farm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A weapon!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something he could hold!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only weapon in the undead world was in the hands of the new Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Bill Door ran he was aware of a faint, higher-pitched clicking noise. He looked down. The Death of Rats was keeping pace with him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It gave him an encouraging squeak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He skidded through the farm gate and flung himself against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the distant rumble of the storm. Apart from that, silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He relaxed slightly, and crept cautiously along the wall towards the back of the farmhouse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He caught a glimpse of something metallic. Leaning against the wall there where the men from the village had left it when they brought him back, was his scythe; not the one he'd carefully prepared but the one he'd used for the harvest. What edge it had had been achieved only by the whetstone and the caress of the stalks, but it was a familiar shape and he made a tentative grab at it. His hand passed right through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The further you run, the closer you get.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death stepped unhurriedly out of the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You should know that, it added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door straightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We will enjoy this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ENJOY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death advanced. Bill Door backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. The lacking of one Death is the same as achieving the end of a billion lesser lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LESSER LIVES? THIS IS NOT A GAME!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death hesitated. What is a game?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door felt the tiny flicker of hope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I COULD SHOW YOU -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The end of the scythe handle caught him under the chin and knocked him against the wall, where he slid to the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We deed a Crick. We do not listen. The reaper does not listen to the harvest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door tried to get up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scythe handle struck him again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We will not make the same mistakes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked up. The new Death was holding the golden timer; the top bulb was empty. Around both of them the landscape shifted, reddened, began to take on the unreal appearance of reality seen from the other side...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You ‘re out of Time, Mr. Bill Door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death raised his cowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no face there. There was not even a skull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Smoke curled formlessly between the robe and a golden crown.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door raised himself on his elbows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A CROWN? His voice shook with rage. I NEVER WORE A CROWN!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You never wanted to rule.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death swung the scythe back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it dawned on the old Death and the new Death that the hissing of passing time had not, in fact, stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death hesitated, and took out the golden glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It shook it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door looked into the empty face under the crown. There was an expression of puzzlement there, even with no features actually to wear it; the expression hung in the air all by itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He saw the crown turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth stood with her hands held a foot apart and her eyes closed. Between her hands, in the air in front of her hovered the faint outline of a lifetimer, its sand pouring away in a torrent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Deaths could just make out, on the glass the spidery name: Renata Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new Death's featureless expression became one of terminal puzzlement. It turned to Bill Door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For YOU?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Bill Door was already rising and unfolding like the wrath of kings. He reached behind him, growling, living on loaned time, and his hands closed around the harvest scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowned Death saw it coming and raised its own weapon but there was very possibly nothing in the world that would stop the worn blade as it snarled through the air, rage arid vengeance giving it an edge beyond any definition of sharpness. It passed through the metal without slowing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO CROWN, said Bill Door, looking directly into the smoke. NO CROWN. ONLY THE HARVEST.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The robe folded up around his blade. There was a thin wail, rising beyond the peak of hearing. A black column, like the negative of lightning, flashed up from the ground and disappeared into the clouds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death waited for a moment, and then gingerly gave the robe a prod with his foot. The crown, bent slightly out of shape, rolled out of it a little way before evaporating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, he said, dismissively. DRAMA. He walked over to Miss Flitworth and gently pressed her hands together. The image of the lifetimer disappeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blue-and-violet fog on the edge of sight faded as solid reality flowed back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in the town, the clock finished striking midnight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman was shivering. Death snapped his fingers in front of her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISS FLITWORTH? RENATA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I - I didn't know what to do and you said it wasn't difficult and -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death walked into the barn. When he came out, he was wearing his black robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was still standing there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know what to do," she repeated, possibly not to him. "What happened? Is it all over?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked around. The grey shapes were pouring into the yard. POSSIBLY NOT, he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">More trolleys appeared behind the row of soldiers. They looked like the small silvery workers with the occasional pale golden gleam of a warrior.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We should retreat back to the stairs," said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that's where they want us to go," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then that's fine by me. Anyway, I vouldn't think those wheels could manage steps, could they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you can't exactly fight to the death," said Ludmilla. Lupine was keeping close to her, yellow eyes fixed on the slowly advancing wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Chance would be a fine thing," said Windle. They reached the moving stairs. He looked up. Trolleys clustered around the top of the upward stair, but the way to the floor below looked clear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps we could find another way up?" said Ludmilla hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They shuffled on to the moving stair. Behind them, the trolleys moved in to block their return.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards were on the floor below. They werestanding so still among the potted plants and fountains that Windle passed them at first, assuming that they were some sort of statue or piece of esoteric furniture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor had a false red nose and was holding some balloons. Beside him, the Bursar was juggling coloured balls, but like a machine, his eyes staring blankly at nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Senior Wrangler was standing a little way off, wearing a pair of sandwich boards. The writing on them hadn't fully ripened yet, but Windle would have bet his afterlife that it would eventually say something like SALE!!!!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other wizards were clustered together like dolls whose clockwork hadn't been wound up. Each one had a large oblong badge on his robe. The familiar organic-looking writing was growing into a word that looked like:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I K Y</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">although why it was doing so was a complete mystery. The wizards certainly didn't look very secure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle snapped his fingers in front of the Dean's pale eyes. There was no response.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's not dead," said Reg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just resting," said Windle. "Switched off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reg gave the Dean a push. The wizard tottered forward, and then staggered to a precarious, swaying halt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we'll never get them out," said Arthur. "Not like that. Can't you wake them up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Light a feather under their nose," Doreen volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think that will work, " said Windle. He based the statement on the fact that Reg Shoe was very nearly under their noses, and anyone whose nasal equipment failed to register Mr. Shoe would certainly not react to a mere burning feather. Or a heavy weight dropped from a great height, if it came to that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I used to know a golem looked like him," said Reg Shoe. "Just like him. Great big chap, made out of clay. That's what your typical golem basically is. You just have to write a special holy word on ‘em to start ‘em up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, like "security"?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle peered at the Dean. ‘No," he said at last, "no-one's got that much clay." He looked around them. "We ought to find out where that blasted music's coming from."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where the musicians are hidden, you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think there are musicians."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to have musicians, brother," said Reg. "That's why it's called music."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Firstly, this isn't like any music I've ever heard, and secondly I always thought you've got to have oil lamps or candles to make light and there aren't any and there's still light shining everywhere," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Poons?" said Ludmilla again, prodding him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here come some trolleys again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were blocking all five passages leading off the central space.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no stairs down," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe it's - she's - in one of the glassy bits," said Ludmilla. ‘The shops?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so. They don't look finished. Anyway, that feels wrong - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lupine growled. Spikes glistened on the leading trolleys, but they weren't rushing to attack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They must have seen what we did to the others," said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. But how could they? That was upstairs," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe they talk to each other."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can they talk? How can they think? There can't be any brains in a lot of wire," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ants and bees don't think, if it comes to that," said Windle. "They're just controlled -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's coming from somewhere in the ceiling," he said. "We've got to find it right now!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's just panels of light," said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something else! Look for something it could be coming from!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's coming from everywhere!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever you're thinking of doing," said Doreen, picking up a potted plant and holding it like a club, "I hope you do it fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that round black thing up there?" said Arthur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There. " Arthur pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"OK, Reg and me will help you up, come on -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me? But I can't stand heights!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you could turn into a bat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but a very nervous one!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop complaining. Right - one foot here, now your hand here, now put your foot on Reg's shoulder -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And don't go through," said Reg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't like this!" Arthur moaned, as they hoisted him up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doreen stopped glaring at the creeping trolleys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Artor! Nobblyesse obligay!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Is that some sort of vampire code?" Reg whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It means something like: a count's gotta do what a count's gotta do," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Count!" snarled Arthur, swaying dangerously. "I never should have listened to that lawyer! I should have known nothing good ever comes in a long brown envelope! And I can't reach the bloody thing anyway!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you jump?" said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you drop dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I'm not jumping!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fly, then. Turn into a bat and fly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't get the airspeed!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could throw him up," said Ludmilla. "You know, like a paper dart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blow that! I'm a count!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just said you didn't want to be," said Windle mildly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On the ground I don't want to be, but when it comes to being chucked around like a frisbee -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Arthur! Do what Mr. Poons says!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see way -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Arthur!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Arthur as a bat was surprisingly heavy. Windle held him by the ears like a misshapen bowling ball and tried to take aim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember - I'm an endangered species!" the Count squeaked, as Windle brought his arm back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an accurate throw. Arthur fluttered to the disc in the ceiling and gripped it in his claws.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you move it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then hang on tight and change back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll catch you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Arthur!" screamed Doreen, prodding an advancing trolley with her makeshift club.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a momentary vision of Arthur Winkings clinging desperately to the ceiling, and then he dropped on Windle and Reg, the disc clasped to his chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The music stopped abruptly. Pink tubing poured out of the ravaged hole above them and coiled upon Arthur, making him look like a very cheap plate of spaghetti and meatballs. The fountains seemed to operate in reverse for a moment, and then dried up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolleys halted. The ones at the back ran into the ones at the front, and there was a chorus of pathetic clanking noises.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tubing still poured out of the hole. Windle picked up a bit. It was an unpleasant pink, and sticky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think it is?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," said Windle, "that we'd better get out of here now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The floor trembled. Steam gushed from the fountain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If not sooner," Windle added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a gasp from the Archchancellor. The Dean slumped forward. The other wizards remained upright, but only just.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're coming out of it," said Ludmilla. ‘But I don't think they'll manage the stairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think anyone should even think about trying to manage the stairs," said Windle. "Look at them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moving stairs weren't. The black steps glistened in the shadowless light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see what you mean," said Ludmilla. "I'd rather try and walk on quicksand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'd probably be safer," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe there's a ramp? There must be some way for the trolleys to get around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla eyed the trolleys. They were milling around aimlessly. "I think I might have an even better one... " she said, and grabbed a passing handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley fought for a moment and then, lacking any contrary instructions, settled down docilely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The ones that can walk'll walk, and the ones that can't walk'll get pushed. Come on, grandad. " This was to the Bursar, who was persuaded to flop across the trolley. He said ‘yo', faintly, and shut his eyes again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean was manhandled on top of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now where?" said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of floor tiles buckled upwards. A heavy grey vapour started to pour out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It must be somewhere at the end of a passage," said Ludmilla. "Come on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Arthur looked down at the mists coiling around his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wonder how you can do that?" he said. "It's amazingly difficult to get stuff that does that. We tried it, you know, to make our crypt more... more cryptic, but it just smokes up the place and sets fire to the curtains -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Artor. We are going."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't think we've done too much damage, do you? Perhaps we should leave a note -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I could write something on the wall if you like," said Reg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up a struggling worker trolley by its handle and, with some satisfaction, smashed it against a pillar until its wheels dropped off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle watched the Fresh Start Club head up the nearest passage, pushing a bargain assortment of wizardry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, well, well," he said. "As simple as that. That's all we had to do. Hardly any drama at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He went to move forward, and stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pink tubes were forcing their way through the floor and were already coiled tightly around his legs. More floor tiles leapt into the air. The stairways shattered, revealing the dark, serrated and above all living tissue that had powered them. The walls pulsed and caved inwards, the marble cracking to reveal purple and pinkness underneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, thought a tiny calm part of Windle's mind, none of this is really real. Buildings aren't really alive. It's all just a metaphor, only at the moment metaphors are like candles in a firework factory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That being said, what sort of creature is the Queen? Like a queen bee, except she's also the hive. Like a caddis fly, which builds, if I'm not mistaken, a shell out of bits of stone and things, to camouflage itself. Or like a nautilus, which adds on to its shell as it gets bigger. And very much, to judge by the way the floors are ripping up, like a very angry starfish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wonder how cities would defend themselves against this sort of thing? Creatures generally evolve some sort of defence against predators. Poisons and stings and spikes and things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here and now, that's probably me. Spiky old Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least I can try to see to it that the others get out all right. Let's make my presence felt...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached down, grabbed a double handful of pulsating tubes, and heaved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Queen's screech of rage was heard all the way to the University.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The storm clouds sped towards the hill. They piled up in a towering mass, very fast. Lightning flashed, somewhere in the core.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE'S TOO MUCH LIFE AROUND, said Death. NOT THAT I'M ONE TO COMPLAIN. WHERE'S THE CHILD?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I put her to bed. She's sleeping now. Just ordinary sleep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lightning struck on the hill, like a thunderbolt. It was followed by a clanking, grinding noise, somewhere in the middle distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH. MORE DRAMA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked around the barn, so that he could command a good view of the dark fields. Miss Flitworth followed very closely on his heels, using him as a shield against whatever terrors were out there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A blue glow crackled behind a distant hedge. It was moving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS THE COMBINATION HARVESTER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was? What is it now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death glanced at the clustering watchers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A POOR LOSER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Harvester tore across the soaking fields, cloth arms whirring, levers moving inside an electric blue nimbus. The shafts for the horse waved uselessly in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can it go without a horse? It had a horse yesterday!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT DOESN'T NEED ONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around at the grey watchers. There were ranks of them now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Binky's still in the yard. Come on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Combination Harvester accelerated towards them. The schip-schip of its blades became a whine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it angry because you stole its tarpaulin?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT'S NOT ALL I STOLE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death grinned at the watchers. He picked up his scythe, turned it over in his hands and then, when he was sure their gaze was fixed upon it, let it fall to the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he folded his arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth dragged at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think you're doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DRAMA.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Harvester reached the gate into the yard and came through in a cloud of sawdust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure we'll be all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. That's all right then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Harvester's wheels were a blur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PROBABLY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... something in the machinery went clonk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the Harvester was still travelling, but in pieces. Sparks fountained up from its axles. A few spindles and arms managed to hold together, jerking madly as they spun away from the whirling, slowing confusion. The circle of blades tore free, smashed up through the machine, and skimmed away across the fields.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a jangle, a clatter, and then the last isolated boing, which is the audible equivalent of the famous pair of smoking boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death reached down calmly and picked up a complicated-looking spindle as it pinwheeled towards his feet. It had been bent into a right-angle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth peered around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THINK THE ELLIPTICAL CAM HAS GRADUALLY SLID UP THE BEAM SHAFT AND CAUGHT ON THE FLANGE REBATE. WITH DISASTROUS RESULTS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death stared defiantly at the grey watchers. One by one, they began to disappear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND NOW I MUST GO, he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss FIitworth looked horrified. "What? Just like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. EXACTLY LIKE THAT. I HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO DO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I won't see you again? I mean -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH. YES. SOON. He sought for the right words, and gave up. THAT'S A PROMISE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death pulled up his robe and reached into the pocket of his Bill Door overall, which he was still wearing underneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHEN MR. SIMNEL COMES TO COLLECT THE BITS IN THE MORNING HE WILL PROBABLY BE LOOKING FOR THIS, he said, and dropped something small and bevelled into her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A THREE-EIGHTHS GRIPLEY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death walked over to his horse, and then remembered something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND HE OWES ME A FARTHING, TOO.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully opened one eye. People were milling around. There were lights and excitement. Lots of people were talking at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He seemed to be sitting in a very uncomfortable pram, with some strange insects buzzing around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could hear the Dean complaining, and there were groans that could only be coming from the Bursar, and the voice of a young woman. People were being ministered to, but no-one was paying him any attention. Well, if there was ministering going on, he was damn well going to get ministered to as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He coughed loudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could try," he said, to the cruel world in general, "forcing some brandy between m'lips."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An apparition appeared above him holding a lamp over its head. It was a size five face in a size thirteen skin; it said ‘Oook?" in a concerned way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, it's you," said Ridcully. He tried to sit up quickly just in case the Librarian tried the kiss of life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Confused memories wobbled across his brain. He could remember a wall of clanking metal, and then pinkness, and then... music. Endless music, designed to turn the living brain to cream cheese.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around. There was a building behind him, surrounded by crowds of people. It was squat and clung to the ground in a strangely animal way, as if it might be possible to lift up a wing of the building and hear the pop-pop-pop of suckers letting go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Light streamed out of it, and steam curled out of its doors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ridcully's woken up!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More faces appeared. Ridcully thought: it's not Soul Cake Night, so they're not wearing masks. Oh, blast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind them he heard the Dean say, "I vote we work up Herpetty's Seismic Reorganiser and lob it through the door. No more problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No! We're too close to the city walls! We just need to drop Quondum's Attractive Point in the right place -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or Sumpjumper's Incendiary Surprise, perhaps?" this was the Bursar's voice. "Burn it out, it's the best way -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Yeah? And what do you know about military tactics? You can't even say "yo" properly!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully gripped the sides of the trolley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would anyone mind tellin' me," he said, "what the - what the heck is goin' on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ludmilla pushed her way through the members of the Fresh Start Club.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to stop them, Archchancellor!" she said. ‘They're talking about destroying the big shop!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More nasty recollections settled on Ridcully's mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Mr. Poons is still in there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully tried to focus on the glowing building.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, dead Windle Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Arthur flew back when we realised he wasn't with us and he said Windle was fighting something that'd come out of the walls! We saw lots of trolleys but they weren't bothered about us! He let us get out!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, dead Windle Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't magic the place to bits with one of your wizards in there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, dead Windle Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he's dead," said Ridcully. "Isn't he? He said he was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ha!" said someone who had much less skin than Ridcully would have liked him to have. "That's typical. That's naked vitalism, that is. I bet they'd rescue someone in there if they happened to be alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he wanted... he wasn't keen on... he... " Ridcully hazarded. A lot of this was beyond him, but to people like Ridcully this didn't matter for very long. Ridcully was simple-minded. This doesn't mean stupid. It just meant that he could only think properly about things if he cut away all the complicated bits around the edges.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He concentrated on the single main fact. Someone who was technically a wizard was in trouble. He could relate to that. It struck a chord. The whole dead-or-alive business could wait.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another minor point that nagged at him, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... Arthur?... flew?..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully turned his head. He blinked slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice teeth YOU got there," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you," said Arthur Winkings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All your own, are they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazing. Of course, I expect you brush regularly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hygienic. That's the important thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what are you going to do?" said Ludmilla.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we'll just go and fetch him out, " said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was it about the girl? He felt a strange urge to pat her on the head. "We'll get some magic and get him out. Yes. Dean!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ‘re just going to go in there to get Windle out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said the Senior Wrangler. ‘You must be out of your mind!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully tried to look as dignified as possible, given his situation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember that I am your Archchancellor," he snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you must be out of your mind, Archchancellor!" said the Senior Wrangler. He lowered his voice. "Anyway, he's an undead. I don't see how you can save undeads. It's a sort of contradiction in terms."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A dichotomy, " said the Bursar helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I don't think surgery is involved."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, didn't we bury him?" said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now we dig him up again," said the Archchancellor. "It's probably a miracle of existence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like pickles," said the Bursar, happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even the Fresh Starters went blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They do that in parts of Howondaland," said the Bursar. "They make these big, big jars of special pickles and then they bury them in the ground for months to ferment and they get this lovely piquant -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me," Ludmilla whispered to Ridcully, "is this how wizards usually behave?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Senior Wrangler is an amazingly fine example," said Ridcully. "Got the same urgent grasp of reality as a cardboard cut-out. Proud to have him on the team." He rubbed his hands together. "OK, lads. Volunteers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo! Hut!" said the Dean, who was in an entirely different world now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would be remiss in my duty if I failed to help a brother," said Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You? We can't take you," said the Dean, glaring at the Librarian. "You don't know a thing about guerrilla warfare."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!" said the Librarian, and made a surprisingly comprehensive gesture to indicate that, on the other hand, what he didn't know about orangutan warfare could be written on the very small pounded-up remains of, for example, the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four of us should be enough," said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never even heard him say "Yo"," muttered the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He removed his hat, something a wizard doesn't ordinarily do unless he's about to pull something out of it, and handed it to the Bursar. Then he tore a thin strip off the bottom of his robe, held it dramatically in both hands, and tied it around his forehead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's part of the ethos," he said, in answer to their penetratingly unspoken question. ‘That's what the warriors on the Counter-weight Continent do before they go into battle. And you have to shout -' He tried to remember some far-off reading. "- er, bonsai. Yes. Bonsai!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought that meant chopping bits off trees to make them small," said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean hesitated. He wasn't too sure himself, if it came to it. But a good wizard never let uncertainty stand in his way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, it's definitely got to be bonsai," he said. He considered it some more and then brightened up. "On account of it all being part of bushido. Like... small trees. Bush-i-do. Yeah. Makes sense, when you think about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you can't shout "bonsai!" here," said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. "We've got a totally different cultural background. It'd be useless. No-one will know what you mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll work on it," said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He noticed Ludmilla standing with her mouth open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is wizard talk," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is, isn't it," said Ludmilla. "I never would have guessed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor had got out of the trolley and was wheeling it experimentally back and forth. It usually took quite a long time for a fresh idea to fully lodge in Ridcully's mind, but he felt instinctively that there were all sorts of uses for a wire basket on four wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are we going or are we standin' around all night bandagin' our heads?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" snapped the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo?" said Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was that a yo?" said the Dean, suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... all right, then."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sat on a mountaintop. It wasn't particularly high, or bare, or sinister. No witches held naked sabbats on it; Discworld witches, on the whole, didn't hold with taking off any more clothes than was absolutely necessary for the business in hand. No spectres haunted it. No naked little men sat on the summit dispensing wisdom, because the first thing the truly-wise man works out is that sitting around on mountaintops gives you not only haemorrhoids but frostbitten haemorrhoids.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally people would climb the mountain and add a stone or two to the cairn at the top, if only to prove that there is nothing really damn stupid that humans won't do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sat on the cairn and ran a stone down the blade of his scythe in long, deliberate strokes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a movement of air. Three grey servants popped into existence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, You think you have won?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, You think you have triumphed?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death turned the stone in his hand, to get a fresh surface and brought it slowly down the length of the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, We will inform Azrael.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, You are only, after all, a little Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death held the blade up to the moonlight, twisting it this way and that, noting the play of light on the tiny flecks of metal on its edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he stood up, in one quick movement. The servants backed away hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out with the speed of a snake and grasped a robe, pulling its empty hood level with his eye sockets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DO YOU KNOW WHY THE PRISONER IN THE TOWER WATCHES THE FLIGHT OF BIRDS? he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It said, Take your hands off me... oops...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blue flame flared for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death lowered his hand and looked around at the other two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, You haven't heard the last of this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death brushed a speck of ash off his robe, and then planted his feet squarely on the mountaintop. He raised the scythe over his head in both hands, and summoned all the lesser Deaths that had arisen in his absence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while they streamed up the mountain in a faint black wave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They flowed together like dark mercury.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It went on for a long time and then stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death lowered the scythe, and examined himself. Yes, all there. Once again, he was the Death, containing all the deaths of the world. Except for -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a moment he hesitated. There was one tiny area of emptiness somewhere, some fragment of his soul, something unaccounted for...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He couldn't be quite certain what it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. Doubtless he'd find out. In the meantime, there was a lot of work to be done...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rode away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Far off, in his den under the barn, the Death of Rats relaxed his determined grip on a beam.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons brought both feet down heavily on a tentacle snaking out from under the tiles, and lurched off through the steam. A slab of marble smashed down, showering him with fragments. Then he kicked the wall, savagely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was very probably no way out now, he realised, and even if there was he couldn't find it. Anyway, he was already inside the thing. It was shaking its own walls down in an effort to get at him. At least he could give it a really bad case of indigestion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He headed towards an orifice that had once been the entrance to a wide passage, and dived awkwardly through it just before it snapped shut. Silver fire crackled over the walls. There was so much life here it couldn't be contained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a few trolleys still here, skittering madly across the shaking floor, as lost as Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He set off along another likely-looking corridor, although most corridors he'd been down in the last one hundred and thirty years hadn't pulsated and dripped so much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another tentacle thrust through the wall and tripped him up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, it couldn't kill him. But it could make him bodiless. Like old One-Man-Bucket. A fate worse than death, probably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled himself up. The ceiling bounced down on him, flattening him against the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He counted under his breath and scampered forward. Steam washed over him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slipped again, and thrust out his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could feel himself losing control. There were too many things to operate. Never mind the spleen, just keeping heart and lungs going was taking too much effort...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Topiary!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the heck do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Topiary! Get it? Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked up through foggy eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. Obviously he was losing control of his brain, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A trolley came sideways out of the steam with shadowy figures clinging on to its sides. One hairy arm and one arm that was barely an arm any more reached down, picked him up bodily and dumped him into the basket. Four tiny wheels skidded on the floor, the trolley bounced off the wall, and then it righted itself and rattled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle was only vaguely aware of voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Off you go, Dean. I know you've been looking forward to it." That was the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll kill it totally? I don't think we want it ending up at the Fresh Start Club. I don't think it's a joiner." That was Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!" That was the Librarian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you worry, Windle. The Dean is going to do something military, apparently, " said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo! Hut!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, good grief."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle saw the Dean's hand float past with something glittering in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you going to use?" said Ridcully, as the trolley rocketed through the steam. "The Seismic Reorganiser, the Attractive Point or the Incendiary Surprise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo, " said the Dean, with satisfaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, all three at once?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's going a bit far, isn't it? And incidentally, if you say "yo" one more time, Dean, I will personally have you thrown out of the University, pursued to the rim of the world by the finest demons that thaumaturgy can conjure up, torn into extremely small pieces, minced, turned into a mixture reminiscent of steak tartare, and turned out into a dog bowl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Y –" The Dean caught Ridcully's eye. "Yes. Yes? Oh, go on, Archchancellor. What's the good of having mastery over cosmic balance and knowing the secrets of fate if you can't blow something up? Please? I've got them all ready. You know how it upsets the inventory if you don't use them after you've got them ready -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley whirred up a trembling slope and cornered on two wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right," said Ridcully. "If it means that much to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Y - sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean started to mutter urgently under his breath, and then screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've gone blind!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your bonsai bandage has slipped over your eyes, Dean. " Windle groaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are you feeling, brother Poons?" Reg Shoe's ravaged features occluded Windle's view.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, you know, " said Windle. "Could be better, could be worse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley ricocheted off a wall and jerked away in another direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are those spells coming along, Dean?" said Ridcully, through gritted teeth. "I'm having real difficulties controlling this thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean muttered a few more words, and then waved his hands dramatically. Octarine flame spurted from his fingertips and earthed itself somewhere in the mists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yee-haw!" he crowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Archchancellor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The comment I made recently about the Y-word..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes? Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can definitely include Yee-haw, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean hung his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Yes. Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And why hasn't everythin' gone boom?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I put a slight delay on it, Archchancellor. I thought perhaps we ought to get out before things happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good thinking, that man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soon have you out, Windle," said Reg Shoe. ‘We don't leave our people in there. Isn't this -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the floor erupted ahead of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing that arose from the shattered tiles was either formless or many forms at once. It writhed angrily, snapping its tubing at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley skewed to a halt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got any more magic, Dean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... no, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the spells you just said will go off... ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any second now, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So... whatever's going to happen... is going to happen to us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully patted Windle on the head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry about this," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle turned awkwardly to look down the passageway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something behind the Queen. It looked like a perfectly ordinary bedroom door, advancing in a series of small steps, as though someone was carefully pushing it along in front of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?" said Reg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle raised himself as far as he could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Schleppel!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on," said Reg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Schleppel!" shouted Windle. ‘Schleppel! It's us! Can you help us out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door paused. Then it was flung aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Schleppel unfolded himself to his full height.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo, Mr. Poons. Hallo, Reg," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stared at the hairy shape that nearly filled the passageway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, Schleppel... er... could you clear the way for us?" Windle quavered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No problem, Mr. Poons. Anything for a friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand the size of a wheelbarrow glided through the steam and tore into the blockage, ripping it out with incredible ease.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, look at me!" said Schleppel. "You're right. A bogeyman needs a door like a fish needs a bicycle! Say it now and say it loud, I'm -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now could you get out of the way, please?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Sure. Wow!" Schleppel took another swipe at the Queen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley shot forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you'd better come with us!" Windle shouted, as Schleppel disappeared in the mists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No he shouldn't," said the Archchancellor, as they sped along. "Believe me. What was it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a bogeyman," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you only get them in closets and things?" shouted Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's come out of the closet," said Reg Shoe proudly. "And he's found himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just so long as we can lose him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can't just leave him -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can! We can!" snapped Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sound behind them like an eruption of swamp gas. Green light streamed past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The spells are starting to go off!" shouted the Dean. ‘"Move it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley whirred out of the entrance and soared up into the cool of the night, wheels screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" bellowed Ridcully, as the crowd scattered ahead of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does that mean I can say yo too?" said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. Just once. Everyone can say it just once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" echoed Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oook!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" said Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" said Schleppel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">(Somewhere in the darkness, where the crowd was thinnest, the gaunt shape of Mr. Ixolite, the world's last surviving banshee, sidled up to the shaking building and bashfully shoved a note under the door. It said: OOOOeeeOOOeeeOOOeee.)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolley ploughed to a very definitive stop. No-one turned around. Reg said, slowly: "You're behind us, right?".</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right, Mr. Shoe, " said Schleppel happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should we worry when he's in front of us?" said Ridcully, "Or is it worse because we know he's behind us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! No more closets and cellars for this bogey," said Schleppel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a shame, because we've got some really big cellars at the University," said Windle Poons quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Schleppel was silent for a while. Then he said, in an exploratory tone of voice, "How big?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? With rats?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rats aren't the half of it. There's escaped demons and all sorts down there. Infested, they are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing?" hissed Ridcully. "That's our cellars you're talking about!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd prefer him under your bed, would you?" murmured Windle. ‘Or walking around behind you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully nodded briskly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wow, yes, those rats are getting really out of hand down there," he said loudly. "Some of them - oh, about two feet long, wouldn't you say, Dean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three feet, " said the Dean. "At least."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fat as butter, too," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Schleppel gave this some thought. ‘Well, all right," he said reluctantly. ‘Maybe I'll just wander in and have a look at them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big store exploded and imploded at the same time, something it is almost impossible to achieve without a huge special effects budget or three spells all working against one another. There was the impression of a vast cloud expanding but at the same time moving away so rapidly that the overall effect was of a shrinking point. Walls buckled and were sucked in. Soil ripped up from the ravaged fields and spiralled into the vortex. There was a violent burst of non-music, which died almost instantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then nothing, except a muddy field.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, floating down from the early morning sky like snow, thousands of white flakes. They slid silently through the air and landed lightly on the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not seeding, is it?" said Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle grabbed one of the flakes. It was a crude rectangle, uneven and blotchy. It was just about possible, with a certain amount of imagination, to make out the words:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">C)OS ~I'~ ~o~~o S\ae.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">v</div>
   <div class="paragraph">~3VQr~~hnia t7u~, O9 ,l</div>
   <div class="paragraph">c/         J o</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, " said Windle. ‘Probably not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lay back and smiled. It was never too late to have a good life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And when no-one was looking, the last surviving trolley on the Discworld rattled off sadly into the oblivion of the night, lost and alone.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pog-a-grodle-fig!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth sat in her kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Outside, she could hear the despondent clanking as Ned Simnel and his apprentice picked up the tangled remains of the Combination Harvester. A handful of other people were theoretically helping, but were really taking the opportunity to have a good look around. She'd made a tray of tea, and left them to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now she sat with her chin in her hands, staring at nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a knock at the open door. Spigot poked his red face into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please, Miss Flitworth -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please, Miss Flitworth, there's a skeleton of a horse walking around in the barn! It's eating hay!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it's all falling through!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really? We'll keep it, then. At least it'll be cheap to feed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Spigot hung around for a while, twisting his hat in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right. Miss Flitworth?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle stared at nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Windle?" said Reg Shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Archchancellor just asked if you wanted a drink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'd like a glass of distilled water," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, just water?" said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what he wants," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd like a glass of distilled water, please," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs. Cake looked smug. At least, as much of her as was visible looked smug, which was that part between the Hat and her handbag, which was a sort of counterpart of the hat and so big that when she sat clasping it on her lap she had to reach up to hold the handles. When she'd heard that her daughter had been invited to the University she'd come too. Mrs. Cake always assumed that an invitation to Ludmilla was an invitation to Ludmilla's mother as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mothers like her exist everywhere, and apparently nothing can be done about them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Fresh Starters were being entertained by the wizards, and trying to look as though they were enjoying it. It was one of those problematical occasions with long silences, sporadic coughs, and people saying isolated things like, "Well, isn't this nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You looked a bit lost there, Windle, for a moment," said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm just a bit tired, Archchancellor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you zombies never slept."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm still tired," said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You‘re sure you wouldn't like us to have another go with the burial and everything? We could do it properly this time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you all the same, but no. I'm just not cut out for the undead life, I think. " Windle looked at Reg Shoe. "Sorry about that. I don't know how you manage it. " He grinned apologetically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got every right to be alive or dead, just as you choose," said Reg severely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One-Man-Bucket says people are dying properly again," said Mrs. Cake. "So you could probably get an appointment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's taken your dog for a walk," said Mrs. Cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's Ludmilla?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle smiled awkwardly. Mrs. Cake's premonitions could be very wearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'd be nice to know that Lupine was being looked after if I... went," he said. "I wonder, could you take him in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... " said Mrs. Cake uncertainly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he's –" Reg Shoe began, and then saw Windle's expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I must admit it'd be a relief to have a dog around the place," said Mrs. Cake. "I'm always worrying about Ludmilla. There's a lot of strange people around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But your dau –" Reg began again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, Reg," said Doreen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's all settled, then," said Windle. "And have you got any trousers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any trousers in the house?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I suppose I've got some that belonged to the late Mr. Cake, but why -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry," said Windle. ‘My mind was wandering. Don't know what I'm saying, half the time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," said Reg, brightly, "I see. What you're saying is that when he -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doreen nudged him viciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," said Reg. ‘Sorry. Don't mind me. I'd forget my own head if it wasn't sewn on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle leaned back, and shut his eyes. He could hear the occasional scrap of conversation. He could hear Arthur Winkings asking the Archchancellor who did his decorating, and where the University got its vegetables. He heard the Bursar moaning about the cost of exterminating all the curse-words, which had somehow survived the recent changes and had taken up residence in the darkness of the roof. He could even, if he strained his perfect hearing, hear the whoops of Schleppel in the distant cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't need him. At last. The world didn't need Windle Poons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He got up quietly and lurched to the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm just going out," he said. "I may be some time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully gave him a half-hearted nod, and concentrated on what Arthur had to say about how the Great Hall could be entirely transformed with some pine-effect wallpaper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle shut the door behind him and leaned against the thick, cool wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, yes. There was one other thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you there, One-Man-Bucket?" he said softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how did you know?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're generally around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">heh heh, you've caused some real trouble there! you know what's going to happen next full moon ?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I do. And I think, somehow, that they do too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but he'll become a wolfman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. And she'll become a wolfwoman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all right, but what kind of relationship can people have one week in four?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe at least as good a chance of happiness as most people get. Life isn't perfect, One-Man-Bucket."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're telling me?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, can I ask you a personal question?" said Windle. ‘I mean I've just got to know..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">huh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After all, you've got the astral plane to yourself again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">oh, all right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you called One -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is that all? I thought you could work that one out, a clever man like you. in my tribe we're traditionally named after the First thing the mother sees when she looks out of the teepee after the birth. it's short for One-Man-Pouring-a-Bucket-of-Water-over-Two-Dogs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's pretty unfortunate, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it's not too bad, said One-Man-Bucket. it was my twin brother you had to feel sorry for. she looked out ten seconds before me to give him his name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons thought about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me, let me guess," he said. ‘Two-Dogs-Fighting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two-Dogs-Fighting a Two-Dogs-Fighting? said One-Man-Bucket. Wow, he'd have given his right arm to be called Two-Dogs-Fighting.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was later that the story of Windle Poons really came to an end, if "story" means all that he did and caused and set in motion. In the Ramtop village where they dance the real Morris dance, for example, they believe that no-one is finally dead until the ripples they cause in the world die away - until the clock he wound up winds down, until the wine she made has finished its ferment, until the crop they planted is harvested. The span of someone's life, they say, is only the core of their actual existence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As he walked through the foggy city to an appointment he had been awaiting ever since he was born, Windle felt that he could predict that final end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would be in a few weeks‘ time, when the moon was full again. A sort of codicil or addendum to the life of Windle Poons - born in the year of the Significant Triangle in the Century of the Three Lice (he'd always preferred the old calendar with its ancient names to all this new-fangled numbering they did today) and died in the year of the Notional Serpent in the Century of the Fruitbat, more or less.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There'd be two figures running across the high moorland under the moon. Not entirely wolves, not entirely human. With any luck, they'd have best of both worlds. Not just feeling... but knowing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Always best to have both worlds.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sat in his chair in his dark study, his hands steepled in front of his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally he'd swivel the chair backwards and forwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert brought him in a cup of tea and exited with diplomatic soundlessness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was one lifetimer left on Death's desk. He stared at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Swivel, swivel. Swivel, swivel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the hall outside, the great clock ticked on, killing time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death drummed his skeletal fingers on the desk's scarred woodwork. In front of him, stacked up with impromptu bookmarks in their pages, were the lives of some of the Discworld's great lovers. Their fairly repetitive experiences hadn't been any help at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He got up and stalked to a window and stared out at his dark domain, his hands clenching and unclenching behind his back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he snatched up the lifetimer and strode out of the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky was waiting in the warm fug of the stables. Death saddled him quickly and led him out into the courtyard, and then rode up into the night, towards the distant glittering jewel of the Discworld.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched down silently in the farmyard, at sunset.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drifted through a wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached the foot of the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised the hourglass and watched the draining of Time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he paused. There was something he had to know. Bill Door had been curious about things, and he could remember everything about being Bill Door. He could look at emotions laid out like trapped butterflies, pinned on cork, under glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bill Door was dead, or at least had ceased his brief existence. But - what was it? - someone's actual life was only the core of their real existence? Bill Door had gone, but he had left echoes. The memory of Bill Door was owed something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death had always wondered why people put flowers on graves. It made no sense to him. The dead had gone beyond the scent of roses, after all. But now... it wasn't that he felt he understood, but at least he felt that there was something there capable of understanding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the curtained blackness of Miss Flitworth's parlour a darker shape moved through the darkness, heading towards the three chests on the dresser.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death opened one of the smaller ones. It was full of gold coins. They had an untouched look about them. He tried the other small chest. It was also full of gold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd expected something more from Miss Flitworth, although probably not even Bill Door would have known what.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried the large chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a layer of tissue paper. Under the paper, some white silky thing, some sort of a veil, now yellowed and brittle with age. He gave it an uncomprehending stare and laid it aside. There were some white shoes. Quite impractical for farm wear, he felt. No wonder they'd been packed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was more paper; a bundle of letters tied together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put them on top of the veil. There was never anything to be gained from observing what humans said to one another - language was just there to hide their thoughts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was, right at the bottom, a smaller box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled it out and turned it over and over in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he unclicked the little latch and lifted the lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Clockwork whirred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tune wasn't particularly good. Death had heard all the music that had ever been written, and almost all of it had been better than this tune. It had a plinkety plonkety quality. a tinny little one-two-three rhythm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the musical box, over the busily spinning gears, two wooden dancers jerked around in a parody of a waltz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death watched them until the clockwork ran down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he read the inscription.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been a present.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Beside him, the lifetimer poured its grains into the bottom bulb. He ignored it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the clockwork ran down, he wound it up again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two figures, spinning through time. And when the music stopped, all you needed was to turn the key.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When it ran down again, he sat in the silence and the dark, and reached a decision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were only seconds left. Seconds had meant a lot to Bill Door, because he'd had a limited supply. They meant nothing at all to Death, who'd never had any.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He left the sleeping house, mounted up, and rode away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The journey took an instant that would have taken mere light three hundred million years, but Death travels inside that space where Time has no meaning. Light thinks it travels faster than anything but it is wrong. No matter how fast light travels it finds the darkness has always got there first, and is waiting for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was company on the ride - galaxies, stars, ribbons of shining matter, streaming and eventually spiralling towards the distant goal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death on his pale horse moved down the darkness like a bubble on a river.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And every river flows somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, below, a plain. Distance was as meaningless here as time. but there was a sense of hugeness. The plain could have been a mile away, or a million miles; it was marked by long valleys or rills which flowed away to either side as he got closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And landed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dismounted, and stood in the silence. Then he went down on one knee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Change the perspective. The furrowed landscape falls away into immense distances, curves at the edges, becomes a fingertip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Azrael raised his finger to a face that filled the sky, lit by the faint glow of dying galaxies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are a billion Deaths, but they are all aspects of the one Death: Azrael, the Great Attractor, the Death of Universes, the beginning and end of time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of the universe is made up of dark matter, and only Azrael knows who it is.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eyes so big that a supernova would be a mere suggestion of a gleam on the iris turned slowly and focused on the tiny figure on the immense whorled plains of his fingertips. Beside Azrael the big Clock hung in the centre of the entire web of the dimensions, and ticked onward. Stars glittered in Azrael's eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of the Discworld stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LORD, I ASK FOR -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three of the servants of oblivion slid into existence alongside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, Do not listen. He stands accused of meddling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, And morticide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, And pride. And living with intent to survive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One said, And fighting with chaos against good order.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Azrael raised an eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The servants drifted away from Death, expectantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LORD, WE KNOW THERE IS NO GOOD ORDER EXCEPT THAT WHICH WE CREATE...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Azrael's expression did not change.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE IS NO HOPE BUT US. THERE IS NO MERCY BUT US. THERE IS NO JUSTICE. THERE IS JUST US.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dark, sad face filled the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALL THINGS THAT ARE, ARE OURS. BUT WE MUST CARE. FOR IF WE DO NOT CARE, WE DO NOT EXIST. IF WE DO NOT EXIST, THEN THERE IS NOTHING BUT BLIND OBLIVION. AND EVEN OBLIVION MUST END SOME DAY. LORD, WILL YOU GRANT ME JUST A LITTLE TIME? FOR THE PROPER BALANCE OF THINGS. TO RETURN WHAT WAS GIVEN. FOR THE SAKE OF PRISONERS AND THE FLIGHT OF BIRDS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death took a step backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was impossible to read expression in Azrael's features.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death glanced sideways at the servants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LORD, WHAT CAN THE HARVEST HOPE FOR, IF NOT FOR THE CARE OF THE REAPER MAN?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LORD? said Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the time it took to answer, several galaxies unfolded, whirled around Azrael like paper streamers, impacted, and were gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Azrael said:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">T</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">1</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">l~                  ~C) I</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And another finger reached out across the darkness towards the Clock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were faint screams of rage from the servants, and then screams of realisation, and then three brief, blue flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All other clocks, even the handless clock of Death, were reflections of the Clock. Exactly reflections of the Clock; they told the universe what the time was, but the Clock told Time what time is. It was the mainspring from which all time poured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the design d the Clock was this: that the biggest hand only went around once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The second hand whirred along a circular path that even light would take days to travel, forever chased by the minutes, hours, days, months, years, centuries and ages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the Universe hand went around once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least, until someone wound up the clockwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Death returned home with a handful of Time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shop bell jangled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Druto Pole, florist, looked over a spray of floribunda Mrs. Shooer. Someone was standing among the vases of flowers. They looked slightly indistinct; in fact, even afterwards, Druto was never sure who had been in his shop and how his words had actually sounded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He oiled forward, rubbing his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How may I hel -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FLOWERS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Druto hesitated only for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the, er, destination for these -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A LADY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And do you have any pref -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LILIES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah? Are you sure that lilies are -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I LIKE LILIES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um... it's just that lilies are a little bit sombre -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I LIKE SOMB -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT DO YOU RECOMMEND?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Druto slipped smoothly into gear. "Roses are always very well received," he said. ‘Or orchids. Many gentlemen these days tell me that ladies find a single specimen orchid more acceptable than a bunch of roses -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GIVE ME LOTS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would that be orchids or roses?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BOTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Druto's fingers twined sinuously, like eels in grease.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I wonder if I could interest you in these marvellous sprays of Neroousa GIoriosa -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LOTS OF THEM.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if Sir's budget would stretch, may I suggest a single specimen of the extremely rare -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And possibly -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. EVERYTHING. WITH A RIBBON.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the shop bell had jangled the purchaser out, Druto looked at the coins in his hand. Many of them were corroded, all of them were strange, and one or two were golden.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," he said. ‘That will do nicely..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He became aware of a soft pattering sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Around him, all over the shop, petals were falling like rain.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">AND THESE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's our De Luxe assortment," said the lady in the chocolate shop. It was such a highclass establishment that it sold, not sweets, but confectionery - often in the form of individual gold-wrapped swirly things that made even larger holes in a bank balance than they did in a tooth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall dark customer picked up a box that was about two feet square. On a lid like a satin cushion it had a picture of a couple of hopelessly cross-eyed kittens looking out of a boot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT FOR IS THIS BOX PADDED? IS IT TO BE SAT ON? CAN IT BE THAT IT IS CAT-FLAVOURED? he added, his tone taking on a definite menace, or rather more menace than it had already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um, no. That's our Supreme Assortment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The customer tossed it aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper looked both ways and then pulled open a drawer under the counter, at the same time lowering her voice to a conspiratorial whisper. ‘Of course," she said, "for that very special occasion..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was quite a small box. It was also entirely black, except for the name of the contents in small white letters; cats, even in pink ribbons, wouldn't be allowed within a mile of a box like this. To deliver a box of chocolates like this, dark strangers drop from chairlifts and abseil down buildings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dark stranger peered at the lettering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"DARK ENCHANTMENTS," he said. I LIKE IT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For those intimate moments," said the lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The customer appeared to consider the relevance of this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. THAT SEEMS APPROPRIATE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper beamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shall I wrap them up, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. WITH A RIBBON.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And will there be anything else, sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The customer seemed to panic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ELSE? SHOULD THERE BE ANYTHING ELSE? IS THERE SOMETHING ELSE? WHAT IS IT THAT SHOULD BE DONE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A PRESENT FOR A LADY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper was left a little adrift by this sudden turning of the tide of conversation. She swam towards a reliable cliche.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, they do say, don't they, that diamonds are a girl's best friend?" she said brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DIAMONDS? OH. DIAMONDS. IS THAT SO?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">They glittered like bits of starlight on a black velvet sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This one. " said the merchant, "is a particularly excellent stone, don't you think? Note the fire, the exceptional -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW FRIENDLY IS IT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The merchant hesitated. He knew about carats, about adamantine lustre, about "water" and "make" and "fire", but he'd never before been called upon to judge gems in terms of general affability.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quite well-disposed?" he hazarded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The merchant's fingers seized on another splinter of frozen light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now this," he said, confidence flowing back into his voice, "is from the famous Shortshanks mine. May I draw your attention to the exquisite -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt the penetrating stare drill through the back of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But not, I must admit, noted for its friendliness," he said lamely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dark customer looked disapprovingly around the shop. In the gloom, behind troll-proof bars, gems glowed like the eyes of dragons in the back of a cave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ARE ANY OF THESE FRIENDLY? he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir, I think I can say, without fear of contradiction, that we have never based our purchasing policy on the amiability of the stones in question," said the merchant. He was uncomfortably aware that things were wrong, and that somewhere in the back of his mind he knew what was wrong with them, and that somehow his mind was not letting him make that final link. And it was getting on his nerves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHERE IS THE BIGGEST DIAMOND IN THE WORLD?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The biggest? That's easy. It's the Tear of Offler, it's in the innermost sanctuary of the Lost Jewelled Temple of Doom of Offler the Crocodile God in darkest Howandaland, and it weighs eight hundred and fifty carats. And, sir, to forestall your next question, I personally would go to bed with it."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the nice things about being a priest in the Lost Jewelled Temple of Doom of Offler the Crocodile God was that you got to go home early most afternoons. This was because it was lost. Most worshippers never found their way there. They were the lucky ones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Traditionally, only two people ever went into the innermost sanctuary. They were the High Priest and the other priest who wasn't High. They had been there for years, and took turns at being the high one. It was an undemanding job, given that most prospective worshippers were impaled, squashed, poisoned or sliced by booby-traps even before making it as far as the little box and the jolly drawing of a thermometer outside the vestry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were playing Cripple Mr. Onion on the high altar, beneath the very shadow of the jewel-encrusted statue of Offler Himself, when they heard the distant creak of the main door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The High Priest didn't look up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"‘Lost Jewelled Temple Roof Repair Fund! Only 6,000 gold pieces to go!! Please Give Generously!! Thank you!!!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Heyup." he said. "Another one for the big rolling ball, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a thump and a rumbling, grinding sound. And then a very final bang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now," said the High Priest. "What was the stake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two pebbles," said the low priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." The High Priest peered at his cards. "OK, I'll see your two peb-"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the faint sound of footsteps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Chap with a whip got as far as the big sharp spikes last week," said the low priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sound like the flushing of a very old dry lavatory. The footsteps stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The High Priest smiled to himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," he said. "See your two pebbles and raise you two pebbles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The low priest threw down his cards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Double Onion' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The High Priest looked down suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The low priest consulted a scrap of paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's three hundred thousand, nine hundred and sixty-four pebbles you owe me," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of footsteps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priests exchanged glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haven't had one for poisoned dart alley for quite some time," said the High Priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Five says he makes it," said the low priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a faint clatter of metal points on stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a shame to take your pebbles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were footsteps again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, but there's still the –" a creak, a splash " - the crocodile tank."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were footsteps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one's ever got past the dreaded guardian of the portals -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priests looked into one another's horrified faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey," said the one who was not High. "You don't think it could be -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here? Oh, come on. We're in the middle of a godsdamn jungle. " The High Priest tried to smile. ‘There's no way it could be -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The footsteps got nearer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priests clutched at one another in terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs. Cake!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The doors exploded inwards. A dark wind drove into the room, blowing out the candles and scattering the cards like polka of snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priests heard the chink of a very large diamond being lifted out of its socket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while, when nothing else seemed to be happening, the priest who wasn't High managed to find a tinder box and, after several false starts, got a candle alight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two priests looked up through the dancing shadows at the statue, where a hole now gaped that should have contained a very large diamond.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while, the High Priest sighed and said, "Well, look at it like this: apart from us, who's going to know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Never thought of it like that. Hey, can I be High Priest tomorrow?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not your turn until Thursday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The High Priest shrugged, and removed his High Priesting hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's very depressing, this kind of thing," he said, glancing up at the ravaged statue. ‘Some people just don't know how to behave in a house of religion."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sped across the world, landing once again in the farmyard. The sun was on the horizon when he knocked on the kitchen door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth opened it, wiping her hands on her apron. She grimaced short-sightedly at the visitor, and then took a step back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill Door? You gave me quite a start -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE BROUGHT YOU SOME FLOWERS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the dry, dead stems.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALSO SOME CHOCOLATE ASSORTMENT, THE SORT LADIES LIKE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the black box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALSO HERE IS A DIAMOND TO BE FRIENDS WITH YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It caught the last rays of the setting sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth finally found her voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bill Door, what are you thinking of?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE COME TO TAKE YOU AWAY FROM ALL THIS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have? Where to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death hadn't thought this far.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't proposing to go anywhere tonight except to the dance," said Miss Flitworth firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death hadn't planned for this, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT IS THIS DANCE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Harvest dance. You know? It's tradition. When the harvest is in. It's a sort of celebration, and like a thanksgiving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANKSGIVING TO WHO?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dunno. No-one in particular, I reckon. Just general thankfulness, I suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAD PLANNED TO SHOW YOU MARVELS. FINE CITIES. ANYTHING YOU WANTED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we're going to the dance, Bill Door. I always go every year. They rely on me. You know how it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out and took her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, you mean now?" she said, "I'm not ready -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LOOK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down at what she was suddenly wearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not my dress. It's got all glitter on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sighed. The great lovers of history had never encountered Miss Flitworth. Casanunder would have handed in his stepladder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEY'RE DIAMONDS. A KING'S RANSOM IN DIAMONDS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which king?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ANY KING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky walked easily along the road to the town. After the length of infinity, a mere dusty road was a bit of a relief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sitting side-saddle behind Death, Miss Flitworth explored the rustling contents of the box of Dark Enchantments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here," she said, "someone's had all the rum truffles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another crackle of paper. ‘And from the bottom layer, too. I hate that, people starting the bottom layer before the top one's been properly finished. And I can tell you've been doing it because there's a little map in the lid and by rights there should be rum truffles. Bill Door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M SORRY, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This big diamond's a bit heavy. Nice, though," she added, grudgingly. "Where'd you get it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FROM PEOPLE WHO THOUGHT IT WAS THE TEAR OF A GOD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. GODS NEVER WEEP. IT IS COMMON CARBON THAT HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO GREAT HEAT AND PRESSURE. THAT IS ALL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Inside every lump of coal there's a diamond waiting to get out, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound for a while, except the clipclop of Binky's hoofs. Then Miss Flitworth said, archly:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do know what's going on, you know. I saw how much sand there was. And so you thought "She's not a bad old stick, I'll show her a good time for a few hours, and then when she's not expecting it, it'll be time for the old cut-de-grass, am I right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am right, aren't I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I CAN'T HIDE ANYTHING FROM YOU, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh. I suppose I should be flattered. Yes? I expect you've got a lot of calls on your time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MORE THAN YOU COULD POSSIBLY IMAGINE, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the circumstances, then, you might as well go back to calling me Renata again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a bonfire in the meadow beyond the archery field. Death could see figures moving in front of it. An occasional tortured squeak suggested that someone was tuning up a fiddle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always come along to the harvest dance," said Miss Flitworth, conversationally. "Not to dance, of course. I generally look after the food and so on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, someone's got to look after the food."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I MEANT WHY DON'T YOU DANCE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos I'm old, that's why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU ARE AS OLD AS YOU THINK YOU ARE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh! Yeah? Really? That's the kind of stupid thing people always say. They always say, My word, you're looking well. They say, There's life in the old dog yet. Many a good tune played on an old fiddle. That kind of stuff. It's all stupid. As if being old was some kind of thing you should be glad about! As if being philosophical about it will earn you marks! My head knows how to think young, but my knees aren't that good at it. Or my back. Or my teeth. Try telling my knees they're as old as they think they are and see what good it does you. Or them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT MAY BE WORTH A TRY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More figures moved in front of the firelight. Death could see striped poles strung with bunting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The lads usually bring a couple of barn doors down here and nail ‘em together for a proper floor," observed Miss Flitworth. "Then everyone can join in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FOLK DANCING? said Death, wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. We have some pride, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SORRY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, it's Bill Door, isn't it?" said a figure looming out of the dusk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's good old Bill!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Bill!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked at a circle of guileless faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HALLO. MY FRIENDS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We heard you'd gone away," said Duke Bottomley. He glanced at Miss Flitworth, as Death helped her down from the horse. His voice faltered a bit as he tried to analyse the situation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're looking very... sparkly... tonight, Miss Flitworth," he finished, gallantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air smelled of warm, damp grass. An amateur orchestra was still setting up under an awning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were trestle tables covered with the kind of food that's normally associated with the word "repast" - pork pies like varnished military fortifications, vats of demonical pickled onions, jacket potatoes wallowing in a cholesterol ocean of melted butter. Some of the local elders had already established themselves on the benches provided, and were chewing stoically if toothlessly through the food with the air of people determined to sit there all night, if necessary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice to see the old people enjoying themselves," said Miss Flitworth. Death looked at the eaters. Most of them were younger than Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a giggle from somewhere in the scented darkness beyond the firelight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the young people," Miss Flitworth added, evenly. "We used to have a saying about this time of year. Let's see... something like "Corn be ripe, nuts be brown, petticoats up... " something." She sighed. "Don't time fly, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, Bill Door, maybe you were right about the power of positive thinking. I feel a lot better tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth looked speculatively at the dance floor. "I used to be a great dancer when I was a gel. I could dance anyone off their feet. I could dance down the moon. I could dance the sun up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached up and removed the bands that held her hair in its tight bun, and shook it out in a waterfall of white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I take it you do dance, Mr. Bill Door?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FAMED FOR IT, MISS FLITWORTH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under the band's awning, the lead fiddler nodded to his fellow musicians, stuck his fiddle under his chin, and pounded on the boards with his foot -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hwun! Htwo! Hwun htwo three four..."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a landscape. with the orange light of a crescent moon drifting across it. And, down below, a circle of fire-light in the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were the old favourites - the square dances, the reels, the whirling, intricate measures which, if the dancers had carried lights, would have traced out topological complexities beyond the reach of ordinary physics, and the sort of dances that lead perfectly sane people to shout out things like ‘Do-si-do!" and ‘Och-aye!" without feeling massively ashamed for quite a long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the casualties were cleared away the survivors went on to polka, mazurka, fox-trot, turkey-trot and trot a variety of other plants and beasts, and then to those dances where people form an arch and other people dance down it, which are incidentally generally based on folk memories of executions, and other dances where people form a circle, which are generally based on folk memories of plagues.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Through it all two figures whirled as though there was no tomorrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lead fiddler was dimly aware that, when he paused for breath, a spinning figure tapdanced a storm out of the floor and a voice by his ear said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU WILL CONTINUE, I PROMISE YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he flagged a second time a diamond as big as his fist landed on the boards in front of him. A smaller figure sashayed out of the dancers and said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you boys don't go on playing, William Spigot. I will personally make sure your life becomes absolutely foul."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it returned to the press of bodies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fiddler looked down at the diamond. It could have ransomed any five kings the world would care to name. He kicked it hurriedly behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More power to your elbow, eh?" said the drummer, grinning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up and play!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was aware that tunes were turning up at the ends of his fingers that his brain had never known. The drummer and the piper felt it too. Music was pouring in from somewhere. They weren't playing it. It was playing them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT IS TIME FOR A NEW DANCE TO BEGIN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Duurrrump-da-dum-dum," hummed the fiddler, the sweat running off his chin as he was caught up in a different tune.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dancers milled around uncertainly, unsure about the steps. But one pair moved purposefully through them at a predatory crouch, arms clasped ahead of them like the bowsprit of a killer galleon. At the end of the floor they turned in a flurry of limbs that appeared to defy normal anatomy and began the angular advance back through the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's this one called?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TANGO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you get put in prison for it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T BELIEVE SO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The music changed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know this one! It's the Quirmish bullfight dance! Oh-lay!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WITH MILK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A high-speed fusillade of hollow snapping noises suddenly kept time with the music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's playing the maracas?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MARACAS? I DON'T NEED... MARACAS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it was now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon was a ghost of itself on one horizon. On the other there was already the distant glow of the advancing day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They left the dance floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever had been propelling the band through the hours of the night drained slowly away. They looked at one another. Spigot the fiddler glanced down at the jewel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was still there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drummer tried to massage some life back into his wrists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Spigot stared helplessly at the exhausted dancers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, then... " he said, and raised the fiddle one more time.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth and her companion listened from the mists that were threading around the field in the dawn light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death recognised the slow, insistent beat. It made him think of wooden figures, whirling through Time until the spring unwound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T KNOW THAT ONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the last waltz."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SUSPECT THERE'S NO SUCH THING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said Miss Flitworth, "I've been wondering all evening how it's going to happen. How you're going to do it. I mean, people have to die of something, don't they? I thought maybe it was going to be of exhaustion, but I've never felt better. I've had the time of my life and I'm not even out of breath. In fact it's been a real tonic, Bill Door. And I -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not breathing, am I." It wasn't a question. She held a hand in front of her face and huffed on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see. I've never enjoyed myself so much in all my life... ha! So... when -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU KNOW WHEN YOU SAID THAT SEEING ME GAVE YOU QUITE A START?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I GAVE YOU QUITE A STOP.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Miss Flitworth didn't appear to hear him. She kept turning her hand backwards and forwards, as if she'd never seen it before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see you made a few changes, Bill Door," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. IT IS LIFE THAT MAKES MANY CHANGES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean that I appear to be younger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT'S WHAT I MEANT ALSO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snapped his fingers. Binky stopped his grazing by the hedge and trotted over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said Miss Flitworth, "I've often thought... I often thought that everyone has their, you know, natural age. You see children of ten who act as though they're thirty-five. Some people are born middle-aged, even. It'd be nice to think I've been... " she looked down at herself, "oh, let's say eighteen... all my life. Inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death said nothing. He helped her up on to the horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I see what life does to people, you know, you don't seem so bad. " she said nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death made a clicking noise with his teeth. Binky walked forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've never met Life, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I CAN SAY IN ALL HONESTY THAT I HAVE NOT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably some great white crackling thing. Like an electric storm in trousers," said Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I THINK NOT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky rose up into the morning sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway... death to all tyrants," said Miss FIitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are we going?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Binky was galloping, but the landscape did not move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a pretty good horse you've got there," said Miss Flitworth. her voice shaking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But what is he doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GETTING UP SPEED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we're not going anywhere -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They vanished.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">They reappeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The landscape was snow and green ice on broken mountains. These weren't old mountains, worn down by time and weather and full of gentle ski slopes, but young, sulky, adolescent mountains. They held secret ravines and merciless crevices. One yodel out of place would attract, not the jolly echo of a lonely goat herd, but fifty tons of express-delivery snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The horse landed on a snowbank that should not, by rights, have been able to support it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death dismounted and helped Miss Flitworth down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They walked over the snow to a frozen muddy track that hugged the mountain side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are we here?" said the spirit of Miss Flitworth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DO NOT SPECULATE ON COSMIC MATTERS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean here on this mountain. Here on this geography," said Miss Flitworth patiently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT IS NOT GEOGRAPHY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HISTORY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They rounded a bend in the track. There was a pony there, eating a bush, with a pack on its back. The track ended in a wall of suspiciously clean snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death removed a lifetimer from the recesses of his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now, he said, and stepped into the snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched it for a moment, wondering if she could have done that too. Solidity was an awfully hard habit to give up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then she didn't have to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone came out.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Death adjusted Binky's bridle, and mounted up. He paused for a moment to watch the two figures by the avalanche.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had faded almost to invisibility, their voices no more than textured air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All he said was "WHEREVER YOU GO, YOU GO TOGETHER. " I said where? He said he didn't know. What's happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rufus - you're going to find this very hard to believe, my love -"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And who was that masked man?" They both looked around. There was no-one there.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the village in the Ramtops where they understand what the Morris dance is all about, they dance it just once, at dawn, on the first day of spring. They don't dance it after that, all through the summer. After all, what would be the point? What use would it be?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But on a certain day when the nights are drawing in, the dancers leave work early and take, from attics and cupboards, the other costume, the black one, and the other bells. And they go by separate ways to a valley among the leafless trees. They don't speak. There is no music. It's very hard to imagine what kind there could be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bells don't ring. They're made of octiron, a magic metal. But they're not, precisely, silent bells. Silence is merely the absence of noise. They make the opposite of noise, a sort of heavily textured silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And in the cold afternoon, as the light drains from the sky, among the frosty leaves and in the damp air, they dance the other Morris. Because of the balance of things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You've got to dance both, they say. Otherwise you can't dance either.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons wandered across the Brass Bridge. It was the time in Ankh-Morpork's day when the night people were going to bed and the day people were waking up. For once, there weren't many of either around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle had felt moved to be here, at this place, on this night, now. It wasn't exactly the feeling he'd had when he knew he was going to die. It was more the feeling that a cogwheel gets inside a clock - things turn, the spring unwinds, and this is where you've got to be...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped, and leaned over. The dark water, or at least very runny mud, sucked at the stone supports.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an old legend... what was it, now? If you threw a coin into the Ankh from the Brass Bridge you'd be sure to return? Or was it if you just threw wood into the Ankh? Probably the former. Most of the citizens, if they dropped a coin into the river, would be sure to come back if only to look for the coin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure loomed out of the mist. He tensed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Morning, Mr. Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle let himself relax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Sergeant Colon? I thought you were someone else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just me, your lordship," said the watchman cheerfully. "Turning up like a bad copper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see the bridge has got through another night without being stolen, sergeant. Well done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be too careful, I always say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure we citizens can sleep safely in one another's beds knowing that no-one can make off with a five-thousand-ton bridge overnight, " said Windle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unlike Modo the dwarf, Sergeant Colon did know the meaning of the word ‘irony'. He thought it meant "sort of like iron". He gave Windle a respectful grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have to think quick to keep ahead of today's international criminal, Mr. Poons," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good man. Er. You haven't, er, seen anyone else around, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dead quiet tonight," said the sergeant. He remembered himself and added, "No offence meant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be moving along, then," said the sergeant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine. Fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you all right, Mr. Poons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine. Fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not going to throw yourself in the river again?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Well. Good night, then. " He hesitated. "Forget my own head next," he said. "Chap over there asked me to give this to you. " He held out a grubby envelope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle peered into the mists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What chap?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That ch- oh, he's gone. Tall chap. Bit odd-looking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle unfolded the scrap of paper, on which was written: OOoooEeeeOooEeeeOOOeee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bad news?" said the sergeant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That depends," said Windle, "on your point of view."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Right. Fine. Well... good night, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Goodbye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon hesitated for a moment, and then shrugged and strolled on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As he wandered away, the shadow behind him moved and grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WINDLE POONS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle didn't look around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out of the corner of his eye Windle saw a pair of bony arms rest themselves on the parapet. There was the faint sound of a figure trying to make itself comfortable, and then a restful silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," said Windle. "I suppose you'll want to be getting along?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO RUSH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were always so punctual."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES, A FEW MINUTES MORE WILL NOT MAKE A LOT OF DIFFERENCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle nodded. They stood side by side in silence, while around them was the muted roar of the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said Windle, "it's a wonderful afterlife. Where were you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WAS BUSY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle wasn't really listening. "I've met people I never even knew existed. I've done all sorts of things. I've really got to know who Windle Poons is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHO IS HE, THEN?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Windle Poons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I CAN SEE WHERE THAT MUST HAVE COME AS A SHOCK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALL THESE YEARS AND YOU NEVER SUSPECTED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle Poons did know exactly what irony meant, and he could spot sarcasm too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all very well for you," he mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PERHAPS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked down at the river again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's been great," he said. "After all this time. Being needed is important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. BUT WHY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle looked surprised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. How should I know? Because we're all in this together, I suppose. Because we don't leave our people in there. Because you're a long time dead. Because anything is better than being alone. Because humans are human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AND SIXPENCE IS SIXPENCE. BUT CORN IS NOT JUST CORN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It isn't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windle leaned back. The stone of the bridge was still warm from the day's heat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To his surprise, Death leaned back as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BECAUSE YOU'RE ALL YOU'VE GOT, said Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. Yes. That as well. It's a great big cold universe out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU'D BE AMAZED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One lifetime just isn't enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, I DON'T KNOW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WINDLE POONS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT WAS YOUR LIFE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, with great relief, and general optimism, and a feeling that on the whole everything could have been much worse, Windle Poons died.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere in the night, Reg Shoe looked both ways, took a furtive paintbrush and small pot of paint from inside his jacket, and painted on a handy wall: Inside Every Living Person is a Dead Person Waiting to Get Out...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it was all over. The end.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Death stood at the window of his dark study, looking out on to his garden. Nothing moved in that still domain. Dark lilies bloomed by the trout pool, where little plaster skeleton gnomes fished. There were distant mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was his own world. It appeared on no map.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But now, somehow, it lacked something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death selected a scythe from the rack in the huge hall. He strode past the huge clock without hands and went outside. He stalked through the black orchard, where Albert was busy about the beehives, and on until he climbed a small mound on the edge of the garden.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Beyond, to the mountains, was unformed land - it would bear weight, it had an existence of sorts, but there had never been any reason to define it further.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Until now, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Albert came up behind him, a few dark bees still buzzing around his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing, master?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">REMEMBERING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I REMEMBER WHEN ALL THIS WAS STARS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was it? Oh, yes...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snapped his fingers. Fields appeared, following the gentle curves of the land.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Golden," said Albert. ‘That's nice. I've always thought we could do with a bit more colour around here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death shook his head. It wasn't quite right yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he realised what it was. The lifetimers, the great room filled with the roar of disappearing lives, was efficient and necessary; you needed something like that for good order. But...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snapped his fingers again and a breeze sprang up. The cornfields moved, billow after billow unfolding across the slopes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALBERT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, master?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HAVE YOU NOT GOT SOMETHING TO DO? SOME LITTLE JOB?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so," said Albert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AWAY FROM HERE, IS WHAT I MEAN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. What you mean is, you want to be alone," said Albert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM ALWAYS ALONE. BUT JUST NOW I WANT TO BE ALONE BY MYSELF.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. I'll just go and, uh, do some little jobs back at the house, then," said Albert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU DO THAT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death stood alone, watching the wheat dance in the wind. Of course, it was only a metaphor. People were more than corn. They whirled through tiny crowded lives, driven literally by clock work, filling their days from edge to edge with the sheer effort of living. And all lives were exactly the same length. Even the very long and very short ones. From the point of view of eternity, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere, the tiny voice of Bill Door said: from the point of view of the owner, longer ones are best.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small figure was standing by his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached down and picked it up, held it up to an investigative eye socket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I KNEW I'D MISSED SOMEONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, I CAN'T LET YOU REMAIN, he said. IT'S NOT AS THOUGH I'M RUNNING A FRANCHISE OR SOMETHING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ARE YOU THE ONLY ONE LEFT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats opened a tiny skeletal hand. The tiny Death of Fleas stood up, looking embarrassed but hopeful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. THIS SHALL NOT BE. I AM IMPLACABLE. I AM DEATH... ALONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at the Death of Rats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He remembered Azrael in his tower of loneliness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ALONE...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Death of Rats looked back at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture a tall, dark figure, surrounded by cornfields...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. YOU CAN'T RIDE A CAT. WHO EVER HEARD OF THE DEATH OF RATS RIDING A CAT? THE DEATH OF RATS WOULD RIDE SOME KIND OF DOG.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Picture more fields, a great horizon-spanning network of fields, rolling in gentle waves...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DON'T ASK ME I DON'T KNOW. SOME KIND OF TERRIER, MAYBE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... fields of corn, alive, whispering in the breeze...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">RIGHT, AND THE DEATH OF FLEAS CAN RIDE IT TOO. THAT WAY YOU KILL TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... awaiting the clockwork of the seasons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">METAPHORICALLY.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And at the end of all stories Azrael, who knew the secret, thought:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I REMEMBER WHEN ALL THIS WILL BE AGAIN.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE END</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

