---
layout: page
title: "Hall of Mirrors"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/zelazny-hall-of-mirrors_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216753">Roger Zelazny</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Roger Zelazny <br class="calibre6"/>
  Hall of Mirrors <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216928" class="calibre7"></div>

<div class="paragraph">Neither of us realized there had been  a  change until a halfdozen guys
tried an ambush.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We had spent the night in the Dancing Mountains, Shask and I, where I'd
witnessed a bizarre game between Dworkin and Suhuy. I'd heard strange  tales
about things that happened to people who spent the night there, but I hadn't
had a hell of a lot  of  choice in the matter. It  had been storming,  I was
tired, and my  mount had become a statue. I  don't know how that game turned
out,  though  I  was  mentioned obliquely  as  a participant  and I'm  still
wondering.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next  morning  my blue horse  Shask and  I had crossed  the  Shadow
Divide 'twixt Amber and  Chaos. Shask  was a Shadow  mount my son Merlin had
found  for me  in the royal stables of the Courts. At the moment,  Shask was
traveling under the guise of a giant blue lizard, and we were  singing songs
from various times and places.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Two  men  rose on  either  side of  the  trail  from amid  rocky cover,
pointing crossbows at us. Two more stepped out before  usone with a bow, the
other  bearing  a  rather  beautiful  looking   blade,   doubtless   stolen,
considering the guy's obvious profession.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Halt! and no harm'll happen," said the swordsman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I drew rein.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When it comes to money, I'm pretty much broke right now," I said, "and
I doubt any of you could ride my mount, or would care to."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well now, maybe and maybe not," said the leader, "but it's a rough way
to make a living, so we take whatever we can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's  not a good idea  to  leave a  man  with nothing," I said.  "Some
people hold grudges."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Most of them can't walk out of here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sounds like a death sentence to me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That sword of yours looks pretty fancy," he said. "Let's see it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think that's a good idea," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If I draw it, I may wind up killing you," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can take  it  off  your body," he  said, glancing to his right  and
left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's see it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you insist."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I drew Grayswandir with a singing note. It  persisted, and the eyes  of
the swordsman before me widened as it went on to describe an arc  calculated
to  intersect with his neck.  His own weapon came out as mine passed through
his neck and continued. His cut toward Shask and passed through the animal's
shoulder. Neither blow did any damage whatsoever.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You a sorcerer?"  he  asked  as I swung again, delivering  a blow that
might have removed his arm. Instead, it passed harmlessly by.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not the kind who does things like this. You?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," he answered, striking again. "What's going on?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I slammed Grayswandir back into the scabbard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing," I said. "Go bother someone else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook the reins, and Shask moved forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shoot him down!" the man cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The men on either side of the trail released their  crossbow  bolts, as
did  the other  man before me. All  four bolts from the sides passed through
Shask, three of the men injuring or killing  their opposite numbers. The one
from ahead passed through me without pain or discomfort. An attempted  sword
blow achieved nothing for my first assailant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ride on," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shask did so and we ignored their swearing as we went.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We seem to have come into a strange situation," I observed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The beast nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"At least it kept us out of some trouble," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Funny. I'd a feeling you would have welcomed trouble," Shask said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I chuckled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Perhaps, perhaps not," I replied. "I wonder how long the spell lasts?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe it has to be lifted."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shit! That's always a pain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Beats being insubstantial."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"True."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Surely someone back at Amber will know what to do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hope so."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We rode on, and we encountered  no one else that day.  I felt the rocks
beneath me when I wrapped myself in my cloak  to sleep that night. Why did I
feel  them when I didn't feel  a sword or  a crossbow  bolt? Too late to ask
Shask  whether  he had felt anything, for he  had turned  to stone  for  the
night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I yawned  and stretched.  A partly  unsheathed Grayswandir felt  normal
beneath my fingers. I pushed it back in and went to sleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Following my morning ablutions, we rode again. Shask was taking well to
hellrides, as  well as most Amber mounts did. Better, in some ways. We raced
through a wildly changing landscape. I thought ahead to Amber, and I thought
back  to  the time  I'd  spent imprisoned  in  the Courts. I  had  honed  my
sensitivity to  a very high degree through meditation, and I began to wonder
whether that, coupled with other  strange disciplines I'd  undertaken, could
have led to my intangibility. I supposed it might have contributed, but  I'd
a feeling the Dancing Mountains were the largest donor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I wonder what it represents and where it came from?" I said aloud.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your homeland, I'd bet," Shask replied, "left especially for you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why did you read it that way?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've been telling me about your family as we  rode along. I wouldn't
trust them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those days are past."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who knows  what might have  happened  while you were away? Old  habits
return easily."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One would need a reason for something like that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"For all you know, one of them has a very good one."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Possibly. But  it doesn't seem likely. I've been  away for some  time,
and few know I'm free at last."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then question those few."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'll see."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just trying to be helpful."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't stop. Say, what do you want to do after we get to Amber?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Haven't made up my mind yet. I've been something of a wanderer."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're  a beast after my own heart. In that  your  sentiments are most
unbeastlike, how can I repay you for this transport?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wait. I've a feeling the Fates will take care of that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So be it. In the meantime, though, if you happen to think of something
special, let me know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a privilege to help you, Lord Corwin. Let it go at that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right. Thanks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We  passed through shadow after shadow.  Suns  ran  backward and storms
assailed us out of beautiful  skies. We toyed with  night,  which might have
trapped  a less adroit pair than us, found a twilight,  and took our rations
there. Shortly thereafter, Shask  turned back to  stone. Nothing attacked us
that night, and my dreams were hardly worth dreaming.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Next day we  were  on our  way early, and I used every trick I knew  to
shortcut  us through Shadow on our  way home. Home... It did feel good to be
headed  back, despite Shask's comments on my  relatives. I'd no idea I would
miss  Amber  as  much  as  I  had. I'd  been away  far  longer  on countless
occasions, but  usually I had at least a rough  idea as  to when  I might be
heading back. A prison in the Courts, though, was not a place from which one
might make such estimates.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So we tore on, wind across a plain, fire in the mountains, water down a
steep ravine. That evening I felt the resistance begin, the resistance which
comes when one enters that area of Shadow near to Amber. I tried to  make it
all the  way but  failed. We  spent that night  at a place near to where the
Black Road used to run. There was no trace of it now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next day the going was slower, but, more and more, familiar shadows
cropped  up.  That night we slept  in Arden,  but Julian  did not find us. I
either dreamed his hunting horn or heard it in the distance as I slept;  and
though it is often prelude to  death and destruction, it merely made me feel
nostalgic. I was finally near to home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next morning I  woke before sunup. Shask,  of course,  was  still a
blue lizard curled  at the base  of a giant tree. So I  made tea and ate  an
apple afterward. We were low on provisions but should soon be in the land of
plenty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shask slowly  unwound as the sun came up.  I fed him  the  rest of  the
apples and gathered my possessions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We  were riding  before too long, slow  and easy,  since there would be
some hard  climbing up  the  back route  I favored. During our first break I
asked  him  to become once  more a horse, and he obliged. It didn't  seem to
make that  much  difference, and  I  requested  he maintain it. I wanted  to
display his beauty in that form.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will you be heading right back after you've seen me here?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've been  meaning to talk to you about  that,"  he responded. "Things
have been slow back in the Courts, and I'm no one's assigned mount."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're going to need a good mount, Lord Corwin."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, I'm sure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd like to apply for the job, for an indefinite period."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd be honored," I said. "You're very special."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, I am."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We were atop Kolvir that afternoon and onto the grounds of Amber Palace
within hours after that.  I found Shask a good stall, groomed him, fed  him,
and left him to turn to stone at his leisure. I found a nameplate, scratched
Shasko's name and my own upon it, and tacked it to his door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See you later," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whatever, Lord. Whatever."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I departed the stables and headed for the palace. It was a damp, cloudy
day, with a chill breeze from the direction of the  sea. So far,  no one had
spotted me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I entered by way of the kitchen, where there was new help on duty. None
of them recognized me, though they obviously  realized that I  belonged.  At
least, they returned my greeting with due respect and did not object to some
fruit I pocketed. They did ask whether I cared to have something sent to one
of  the rooms, and I answered "yes" and told  them to send a bottle  of wine
and a chicken along with it. The afternoon head chef--a redhaired lady named
Clare--began studying  me more closely, and more than once her gaze  drifted
toward the silver rose on my cloak.  I did not want to  announce my identity
just then, and I thought they'd be a little  afraid to guess ahead at it, at
least for a few hours. I did want the time to rest a bit  and just enjoy the
pleasure  of  being  back. So, "Thanks," I said, and I  went on my way to my
quarters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I started up the back stairs the servants use for being unobtrusive and
the rest of us for being sneaky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Partway up, I realized that the way was blocked by sawhorses. Tools lay
scattered  about  the  stairs though there were no workmen in  sight--and  I
couldn't tell whether a section of old stair had simply given way or whether
some other force had been brought to bear upon it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I returned, cut around to the front, and took the big stairway up. As I
made my way, I saw signs of exterior repair work, including entire walls and
sections  of flooring.  Any  number  of  apartments were  open to viewing. I
hurried to make sure that mine was not among their number.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fortunately, it  was  not.  I was  about  to let myself  in when  a big
redhaired fellow turned a  corner  and  headed toward  me.  I shrugged. Some
visiting dignitary, no doubt...</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin!" he called out. "What are you doing here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">As he drew nearer, I saw that he was studying me most intently. I  gave
him the same treatment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't believe I've had the pleasure," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aw, come on, Corwin," he said. "You surprised me. Thought you were off
by your Pattern and the '57 Chevy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not sure what you're talking about," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He narrowed his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're not a Pattern ghost?" he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Merlin told  me  something about them," I  said, "after he effected my
release at the Courts. But I don't believe I've ever met one."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I rolled up my left sleeve.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cut me. I bleed," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As he studied my arm, his gaze appeared more than a little serious. For
a moment, I thought he'd actually take me up on it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," he said then. "Just a nick. For security purposes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I still don't know who I'm talking to," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He bowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry. I am Luke of Kashfa, sometimes known as Rinaldo I, its king. If
you are who  you say you  are, I  am  your nephew. My dad was  your  brother
Brand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Studying him, I saw the resemblance. I thrust my arm farther forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do it," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're serious."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dead right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He drew a  Bowie knife  from his  belt then and looked into my  eyes. I
nodded. He moved to touch my forearm with its tip and nothing happened. That
is  to say,  something  happened,  but  it  was  neither desired nor  wholly
anticipated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The point of his blade seemed to sink  a halfinch or so into my arm. It
kept going then, finally passing all the way through. But no blood came.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He tried again. Nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Damn," he said. "I don't understand. If you were a Pattern ghost, we'd
at least get a flare. But there's not even a mark on you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"May I borrow the blade?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He  passed it to me.  I took it in my hand and studied it, I pushed  it
into my arm and drew  it along  for perhaps threequarters of an inch.  Blood
oozed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll be damned," Luke said. "What's going on?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd say it's a spell I picked up when  I spent  a night in the Dancing
Mountains recently," I replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hm," Luke mused,  "I've never had the pleasure, but I've heard stories
of the place.  I don't know any  simple ways to break its  spells. My room's
off toward  the front." He gestured  southward. "If you'd care  to stop  by,
I'll  see what I can figure out about it. I studied Chaos magic with my dad,
and with my mother, Jasra."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This  is my room right here," I said, "and I've a chicken and a bottle
of wine on the way  up. Let's do the diagnosis  in here, and  I'll split the
meal with you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Best offer I've had  all day," he  said.  "But let  me stop back at my
room for some tools of the trade."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right. I'll  walk you back,  so I'll know  the way  in case I need
it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He nodded and turned. We headed up the hall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Turning  the  corner,  we  moved  from  west  to east, passing  Flora's
apartments  and  moving  in the direction  of some of the  better  visitors'
quarters.  Luke  halted  before  one  room  and  reached  into  his  pocket,
presumably after the key. Then he halted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, Corwin?" he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?" I responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those two big  cobrashaped candle holders," he said, gesturing  up the
hall. "Bronze, I believe."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Most likely. What of them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought they were just hall decorations."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's what they are."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The  last  time I looked  at them,  they  kind  of bracketed  a  small
painting or tapestry," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My recollection, too," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, there seems to be a corridor between them now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, that can't be. There's a  proper hallway just a little beyond--" I
began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then I shut up because I knew. I began walking toward it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" Luke asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's calling me," I said. "I've got to go and see what it wants."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Hall of Mirrors. It comes  and goes. It brings  sometimes  useful,
sometimes ambiguous messages to the one it calls."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is it calling us both, or just you?" Luke said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dunno,"  I  replied. "I  feel it calling me, as it  has in  the  past.
You're welcome to come with me. Maybe it has some goodies for you, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You ever hear of two people taking it at once?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, but there's a first time for everything," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke nodded slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What the hell," he said, "I'm game."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He followed me to the place of the snakes, and we peered up it. Candles
flared  along  its  walls, at either hand. And  the walls glittered from the
countless mirrors which hung upon them. I stepped forward. Luke followed, at
my left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mirror frames were of every shape imaginable. I walked very slowly,
observing the contents of each one. I told Luke to do the  same. For several
paces, the mirrors seemed simply  to be  giving back what  was before  them.
Then Luke stiffened and halted, head turning to the left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mom!" he said explosively.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The reflection  of an  attractive  red-haired woman  occupied a  mirror
framed in green-tinged copper in the shape of an Ouroboros serpent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So glad you did the right thing, taking the throne," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You really mean that?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," she replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thought you might be mad. Thought you wanted it," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I did once, but those damned Kashfans never  appreciated me.  I've got
the  Keep now, though, and I feel like doing a few years' research here--and
it's full of sentimental values  as well. So as  long as Kashfa stays in the
family, I wanted you to know I was pleased."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why--uh--glad to hear that, Mom. Very glad. I'll hang onto it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do," she said, and vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned to me, a small ironic smile flickering across his lips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's  one  of the rare  times  in  my  life  when  she's approved of
something  I've  done," he said. "Doubtless  for all the wrong reasons,  but
still... How real are  these things? What  exactly  did  we see? Was that  a
conscious communication on her part? Was--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're real,"  I said. "I don't know  how  or why or what part of the
other is actually present. They may be stylized,  surreal, may even suck you
in. But in some way they're really real. That's all I know. Holy cow!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">From  the huge  gold-framed  mirror,  ahead  and to  my right, the grim
visage of my father Oberon peered forth. I advanced a pace.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin," he said.  "You  were  my chosen, but you always had  a way of
disappointing me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the breaks," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"True.  And  one  should not speak  of  you as  a child after all these
years. You've made your choices.  Of some  I have been proud. You  have been
valiant."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, thank you--sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I bid you do something immediately."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Draw your dagger and stab Luke."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin," Luke  said.  "It could be something  like your proving you're
not a Pattern ghost."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But I don't give a damn whether you're a Pattern ghost," I said. "It's
nothing to me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not that," Oberon interjected. "This is of a different order."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What, then?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Easier to show than to tell," Oberon replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So nick my arm," he said. "Big deal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right. Let's see how the show beats the tell."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I  drew a stiletto from my boot sheath. He pulled  back his sleeve  and
extended his arm. I stabbed lightly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My blade passed through his arm as if the limb were made of smoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shit," Luke said. "It's contagious."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Oberon responded. "It is a thing of very special scope."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That is to say?" Luke asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Would you draw your sword, please?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke nodded and drew a familiar-looking golden blade. It emitted a high
keening sound, causing all of the candle flames  in the vicinity to flicker.
Then I knew it for what it was--my brother Brand's blade, Werewindle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Haven't seen that in a long while," I said, as the keening continued.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke, would you cut Corwin with your blade, please?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke raised his eyes, met my gaze. I nodded. He moved the blade, scored
my arm with its point. I bled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin--If you would...?" Oberon said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I drew Grayswandir and it, too,  ventured into  fighting song--as I had
only  heard it do on great battlefields  in  the past. The two tones  joined
together into a devastating duet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cut Luke."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke  nodded and I sliced the  back  of  his hand with Grayswandir.  An
incision line occurred,  reddening immediately. The sounds from  our  blades
rose and fell. I sheathed Grayswandir to shut her up. Luke did the same with
Werewindle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's a  lesson  there somewhere," Luke said. "Damned  If I can  see
what it is, though."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're brother and sister weapons, you know, with a certain magic  in
common. In  fact, they've a  powerful secret in common," Oberon said.  "Tell
him, Corwin."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a dangerous secret, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The time has come for it to be known. You may tell him,"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said.  "Back in the early days of creation, the gods had
a series of rings their champions used in the stabilization of Shadow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know of them," Luke said. "Merlin wears a spikard."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Really," I  said. "They each have the power to draw on many sources in
many shadows. They're all different."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So Merlin said."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ours were turned into swords, and so they remain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh?" Luke said. "What do you know?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What  do  you deduce  from the fact that  they can  do you  harm  when
another weapon cannot?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Looks as if they're somehow involved in our enchantment," I ventured.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's  right,"  Oberon said. "In  whatever  conflict  lies  ahead--no
matter what side you  are on--you will  need exotic  protection  against the
oddball power of someone like Jurt."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Jurt?" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Later," Luke told me. "I'll fill you in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just how is this protection to be employed. How do we lot back to full
permeability?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I will not say," he replied, "but someone along the way here should be
able  to tell you. And  whatever happens, my blessing--which is probably  no
longer worth much--lies on both of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We bowed and said thanks. When we looked up again, he was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Great,"  I said.  "Back for less than an  hour  and  involved in Amber
ambiguity."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Chaos  and Kashfa  seem  just  as bad, though,"  he said.  "Maybe  the
state's highest function is to grind out insoluble problems."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I  chuckled  as we moved on, regarding  ourselves in dozens of pools of
light. For several paces nothing happened,  then a familiar face appeared in
a red-framed oval to my left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin, what a pleasure," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dara!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It seems that my unconscious will must be stronger than that of anyone
else who  wishes you ill," she said. "So I get  to deliver the best piece of
news of all."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes?" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see one of you lying pierced by the blade of the other. What joy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've no intention of killing this guy," I told her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Goes both ways," Luke said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah, but that is the deadly  beauty of it,"  she said. "One of you must
be  run  through  by the  other for the survivor  to regain that  element of
permeability he has lost."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, but I'll find another way,"  Luke  said. "My mom,  Jasra, is a
pretty good sorceress."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her laughter sounded like the breaking of one of the mirrors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Jasra! She was one of my maids," she said. "She picked up whatever she
knows  of the Art by  eavesdropping on my work. Not without  talent, but she
never received full training."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My dad completed her training," Luke said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As she studied Luke, the merriment went out of her face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," she said. "I'll level with you, son of Brand. I can't  see
any way to resolve it other than the way I stated. As I have nothing against
you, I hope to see you victorious."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," he said, "but I've no intention of fighting my uncle. Someone
must be able to lift this thing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The tools themselves have drawn you  into this," she said.  "They will
force you to fight. They are stronger than mortal sorcery."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks for the advice," he said. "Some of  it  may come in handy," and
he winked  at her. She blushed, hardly a response I'd have anticipated, then
she was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't like the tenor this has acquired," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me neither. Can't we just turn around and go back?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It  sucks you in,"  I  told him. "Just get everything you  can  out of
it--that's the best advice I ever got on the thing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We walked on for perhaps ten feet, past some absolutely lovely examples
of mirror making as well as some battered old looking glasses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A yellow-lacquered one on Luke's side, embossed with Chinese characters
and chipped here and there, froze us in our tracks as  the  booming voice of
my late brother Eric rang out:</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see your  fates,"  he said with a rumbling laugh. "And I can see the
killing ground where you are destined to enact them. It will be interesting,
brother. If you hear laughter as you lie dying, it will be mine."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, you  always were  a great kidder," I said. "By the  way,  rest  in
peace. You're a hero, you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He studied my face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Crazy brother," he said, and he turned his head away and was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was Eric, who reigned briefly as king here?" Luke asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Crazy brother," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We moved forward  and a slim  hand emerged  from a steel-framed  mirror
patterned with roses of rust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I halted, then turned quickly, somehow knowing  even before I  saw  her
who I would behold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Deirdre..." I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin," she replied softly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you know what's been going on as we walked along?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How much is bullshit and how much is true?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't  know, but I don't  think any of the others do either--not for
sure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks. I'll take all the reassurances I can get. What now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you  will take hold of the other's arm, it will make the  transport
easier."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What transport?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You  may  not leave  this hall  on your own motion. You will be  taken
direct to the killing ground."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"By you, love?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've no choice in the matter."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded. I took hold of Luke's arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you think?" I asked him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I  think  we should go," he said, "offering no resistance--and when we
find out who's behind this, we take him apart with hot irons."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I like the way you think," I said. "Deirdre, show us the way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've bad feelings about this one, Corwin."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If, as  you  said, we've no choice in the matter, what difference does
it make? Lead on, lady. Lead on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She took my hand. The world began to spin around us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somebody owed me a chicken and a bottle of wine. I would collect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I awoke  lying in  what seemed a glade under  a  moonlit sky. I kept my
eyes half-lidded and did not move. No sense in giving away my wakefulness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Very  slowly,  I moved  my eyes.  Deirdre  was  nowhere  in  sight.  My
rightside peripheral  vision informed  me that there might  be a bonfire  in
that direction, with some folks seated around it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I  rolled my eyes to the left and got a glimpse  of Luke.  No one  else
seemed to be nearby.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You awake?" I whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah," he replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No one near," I  said, rising, "except  maybe for a few around  a fire
off to the right. We might be able to  find a  way out and take  it--Trumps,
Shadowalk--and thus break the ritual. Or we might be trapped."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke  put a  finger into his  mouth, removed it,  and raised  it, as if
testing the wind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We're caught up in a sequence I think we need," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To the death?" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't  know. But  I don't really  think we can escape this  one," he
replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He rose to his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ain't the fighting, it's the familiarity," I said. "I begrudge knowing
you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too. Want to flip a coin?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Heads, we walk away. Tails, we go over and see what the story is."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fine with me."  He  plunged  his  hand  into  a  pocket,  pulled out a
quarter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do the honors," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He flipped it. We both dropped to our knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tails," he said. "Best two out of three?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Naw," I said. "Let's go."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke pocketed his quarter, and we turned and walked toward the fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Only a dozen people or so. We can take them," Luke said softly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They don't look particularly hostile," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"True."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded as we approached and addressed them in Thari:</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hello,"  I said. "I'm Corwin  of Amber and this is Rinaldo  I, King of
Kashfa, also known as Luke. Are we by any chance expected here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">An older man, who had been seated before the fire and poking at it with
a stick, rose to his feet and bowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My name is Reis," he said, "and we are witnesses."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"For whom?" Luke said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We do not know their names. There were two and they wore hoods. One, I
think,  was a  woman.  --We  may offer  you  food  and drink  before  things
begin..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said, "I'm out a meal because of this. Feed me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too," Luke added, and the  man and a couple of his cohorts brought
meat, apples, cheese, bread, and cups of red wine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As we ate, I asked Reis, "Can you tell me how this thing works?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," he  said. "They told me. When you're  finished  eating, if
you two will move to the other side of the fire, the cues will come to you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I laughed and then I shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finished dining, I looked at Luke. He smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If we've got to sing  for our  supper," Luke said, "let's  give them a
ten-minute demonstration and call it a draw."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sounds good to me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We put aside our plates, rose, moved to the fire, and passed behind it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready?" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure. Why not?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">We drew our weapons, stepped back, and  saluted. We  both  laughed when
the music began. Suddenly, I found myself attacking, though I had decided to
await the attack and  put my first energies into  its  counter. The movement
had been thoughtless, though quite deft and speedy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke," I said as he parried, "it got away from me. Be careful. There's
something odd going on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I  know," he said  as  he  delivered a formidable  attack.  "I  wasn't
planning that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I parried it and came back even faster. He retreated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not bad," he said, as I felt something loosened in  my arm. Suddenly I
was fencing on my own again, voluntarily, with no apparent control but  with
fear that it might be reasserted at any moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly,  I  knew  that  we  were fairly free and it scared  me. If  I
weren't sufficiently  vicious,  I  might be  taken  over  again.  If I were,
someone might slip  in an  unsolicited  move at  the  wrong moment.  I  grew
somewhat afraid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke, if what's happening  to you is similar to what's been  happening
to me, I don't like this show a bit," I told him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me neither," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced  back  across the  fire. A pair  of hooded individuals  stood
among the others. They were not  overlarge and there was a certain whiteness
within the cowl of the nearer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We've more audience," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Luke glanced back; it was only  with  great difficulty that I  halted a
cowardly attack as he turned away. When we returned to hard combat, he shook
his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Couldn't recognize either of them," he said. "This seems a little more
serious than I thought."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can both take quite a beating and recover."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"True."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Our blades rattled on. Occasionally, one  or the other of us received a
cheer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What say we injure each  other," Luke said, "then throw ourselves down
and wait for  their  judgment on whatever's  been accomplished. If either of
them come near enough, we take them out just for laughs."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay,"  I said.  "If you  can  expose  your left  shoulder  a bit, I'm
willing to take a midline cut. Let's give them lots of gore  before we flop,
though. Head and forearm cuts. Anything easy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay. And 'simultaneity' is the word."</div>
<div class="paragraph">So  we fought. I stood off a bit, going faster  and faster. Why not? It
was kind of a game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, my body executed a move I had not  ordered it to. Luke's eyes
widened  as the blood spurted  and Grayswandir passed  entirely  through his
shoulder. Moments later, Werewindle pierced my vitals.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry,"  Luke said.  "Listen, Corwin.  If you live and I  don't, you'd
better know that there's too  much crazy  stuff  involving mirrors  going on
around the castle.  The  night before you  came back, Flora  and I  fought a
creature  that  came  out  of  a   mirror.   And  there's  an  odd  sorcerer
involved--has a crush on Flora.  Nobody  knows his name. Has something to do
with Chaos,  though, I'd judge. Could it be that for the first time Amber is
starting to reflect Shadow, rather than the other way around?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hello," said a familiar voice. "The deed is done."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Indeed," said another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It  was the two cowled figures who had spoken. One was Fiona, the other
Mandor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"However it be resolved, good night, sweet prince," said Fiona.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I tried to rise. So  did Luke. Tried also to raise my blade. Could not.
Again,  the world  grew dim,  and this time I  was  leaking precious  bodily
fluids.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm going to live--and come after you," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin," I  heard her say faintly.  "We are not as culpable as you may
think. This was--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"--all for  my own good, I'll  bet," I muttered  before the world  went
dark,  growling  with  the realization that I hadn't gotten to  use my death
curse. One of these days....</div>
<div class="paragraph">I woke up in the dispensary in Amber, Luke in the next bed. We both had
IVs dripping into us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're going to live," Flora said, lowering  my wrist  from taking  my
pulse. "Care to tell me your story now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They just found us in the hall?" Luke asked. "The Hall  of Mirrors was
nowhere in sight?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't want to mention any names yet," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Corwin," Luke said, "Did  the Hall of Mirrors  show up a lot when  you
were a kid?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hardly ever, when I was growing  up either," Flora said. "It's only in
recent  years that it's become  this active. Almost  as  if the  place  were
waking up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The place?" Luke said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Almost as if there's another player in the game," she responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who?" I demanded, causing a pain in my gut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, the castle itself, of course," she said.</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

