---
layout: page
title: "Interesting Times"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-interesting-times_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216766">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre6"/>
  Interesting Times <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216752" class="calibre7"></div>

  
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There is a curse.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">They say:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">May You Live in Interesting Times</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This is where the gods play games with the lives of men, on a board which is <em class="calibre8">at one and the same time</em> a simple playing area and the whole world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Fate always wins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate always wins. Most of the gods throw dice but Fate plays chess, and you don't find out until too late that he's been using two queens all along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate wins. At least, so it is claimed. Whatever happens, they say afterwards, it must have been Fate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gods can take any form, but the one aspect of themselves they cannot change is their eyes, which show their nature. The eyes of Fate are hardly eyes at all - just dark holes into an infinity speckled with what may be stars or, there again, may be other things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked them, smiled at his fellow players in the smug way winners do just before they become winners, and said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I accuse the High Priest of the Green Robe in the library with the double-handed axe.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he won.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He beamed at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No-one likesh a poor winner,' grumbled Offler the I Crocodile God, through his fangs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It seems that I am favouring myself today,' said Fate. 'Anyone fancy something else?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The gods shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mad Kings?' said Fate pleasantly. 'Star-Crossed Lovers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think we've lost the rules for that one,' said Blind Io, chief of the gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or Tempest-Wrecked Mariners?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You always win,' said Io.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Floods and Droughts?' said Fate. 'That's an easy one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow fell across the gaming table. The gods looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Fate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let a game begin,' said the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was always an argument about whether the newcomer was a goddess at all. Certainly no-one ever got anywhere by worshipping her, and she tended to turn up only where she was least expected, such as now. And people who trusted in her seldom survived. Any temples built to her would surely be struck by lightning. Better to juggle axes on a tightrope than say her name. Just call her the waitress in the Last Chance saloon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was generally referred to as the Lady, and her eyes were green; not as the eyes of humans are green, but emerald green from edge to edge. It was said to be her favourite colour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Fate again. 'And what game will it be?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down opposite him. The watching gods looked sidelong at one another. This looked interesting. These two were ancient enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about...' she paused,'... Mighty Empires?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I <em class="calibre8">hate</em> that one,' said Offler, breaking the sudden silence. 'Everyone dief at the end.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Fate, 'I believe they do.' He nodded at the Lady, and in much the same voice as professional gamblers say 'Aces high?' said, 'The Fall of Great Houses? Destinies of Nations Hanging by a Thread?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">good</em>.' Fate waved a hand across the board. The Discworld appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And where shall we play?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Counterweight Continent,' said the Lady. Where five noble families have fought one another Jor centuries.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Which families are these?' said Io. He had little involvement with individual humans. He generally looked after thunder and lightning, so from his point of view the only purpose of humanity was to get wet or, in occasional cases, charred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Hongs, the Sungs, the Tangs, the McSweeneys and the Fangs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Them? I didn't know they were noble,' said Io.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're all very rich and have had millions of people butchered or tortured to death merely for reasons of expediency and pride,' said the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The watching gods nodded solemnly. That was certainly noble behaviour. That was exactly what they would have done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">McFweeneyf</em>?' said Offler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very old established family,' said Fate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And they wrestle one another for the Empire,' said Fate. 'Very good. Which will you be?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady looked at the history stretched out in front of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Hongs are the most powerful. Even as we speak, they have taken yet more cities,' she said. 'I see they are fated to win.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So, no doubt, you'll pick a weaker family.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate waved his hand again. The playing pieces appeared, and started to move around the board as if they had a life of their own, which was of course the case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But,' he said, 'we shall play without dice. I don't trust you with dice. You throw them where I can't see them. We will play with steel, and tactics, and politics, and war.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate looked across at his opponent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And your move?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled. 'I've already made it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down. 'But I don't see your pieces on the board.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're not on the board yet,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something black and yellow on her palm. She blew on it, and it unfolded its wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate always wins...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least, when people stick to the rules.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">According to the philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle, chaos is found in greatest abundance wherever order is being sought. It always defeats order, because it is better organized.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This is the butterfly of the storms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">See the wings, slightly more ragged than those of the common fritillary. In reality, thanks to the fractal nature of the universe, this means that those ragged edges are infinite - in the same way that the edge of any rugged coastline, when measured to the ultimate microscopic level, is infinitely long - or, if not infinite, then at least so close to it that Infinity can be seen on a clear day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And therefore, if their edges are infinitely long, the wings must logically be infinitely big.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They may <em class="calibre8">look</em> about the right size for a butterfly's wings, but that's only because human beings have always preferred common sense to logic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Quantum Weather Butterfly <em class="calibre8">(Papilio tempestae)</em> is an undistinguished yellow colour, although the mandelbrot patterns on the wings are of considerable interest. Its outstanding feature is its ability to create weather.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This presumably began as a survival trait, since even an extremely hungry bird would find itself incon-venienced by a nasty localized tornado. From there it possibly became a secondary sexual characteristic, like the plumage of birds or the throat sacs of certain frogs. Look at <em class="calibre8">me</em>, the male says, flapping his wings lazily in the canopy of the rain forest. I may be an undistinguished yellow colour but in a fortnight's tone, a thousand miles away, Freak Gales Cause Road Chaos.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is the butterly of the storms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It flaps its wings...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">This</em> is the Discworld, which goes through space on the back of a giant turtle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most worlds do, at some time in their perception. It's a cosmological view the human brain seems preprogrammed to take.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On veldt and plain, in cloud jungle and silent red desert, in swamp and reed marsh, in fact in any place where something goes 'plop' off a floating log as you approach, variations on the following take place at a crucial early point in the development of the tribal mythology...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see dat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It just went plop off dat log.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah? Well?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon... I reckon... like, I <em class="calibre8">reckon</em> der world is carried on der back of one of dem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment of silence while this astrophysical hypothesis is considered, and then...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The whole world?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course, when I say one of dem, I mean a <em class="calibre8">big</em> one of dem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'd have to be, yeah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like... really big.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S funny, but... I see what you mean.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Makes sense, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Makes sense, yeah. Thing is...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just hope it never goes plop.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But this <em class="calibre8">is</em> the Discworld, which has not only the turtle but also the four giant elephants on which the wide, slowly turning wheel of the world revolves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">There</em> is the Circle Sea, approximately halfway between the Hub and the Rim. Around it are those countries which, according to History, constitute the civilized world, i.e., a world that can support histor-ians: Ephebe, Tsort, Omnia, Klatch and the sprawling city state of Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is a story that starts somewhere else, where a man is lying on a raft in a blue lagoon under a sunny sky. His head is resting on his arms. He is happy - in his case, a mental state so rare as to be almost unprecedented. He is whistling an amiable little tune, and dangling his feet in the crystal clear water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They're pink feet with ten toes that look like little piggy-wiggies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the point of view of a shark, skimming over the reef, they look like lunch, dinner and tea.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, as always, a matter of protocol. Of discretion. Of careful etiquette. Of, ultimately, alcohol. Or at least the illusion of alcohol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari, as supreme ruler of Ankh-Morpork, could in theory summon the Archchancellor of Unseen University to his presence and, indeed, have him executed if he failed to obey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the other hand Mustrum Ridcully, as head of the college of wizards, had made it clear in polite but firm ways that <em class="calibre8">he</em> could turn <em class="calibre8">him</em> into a small amphibian and, indeed, start jumping around the room on a pogo stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Alcohol bridged the diplomatic gap nicely. Sometimes Lord Vetinari invited the Archchancellor to the palace for a convivial drink. And of course the Archchancellor went, because it would be <em class="calibre8">bad manners</em> not to. And everyone understood the position, and everyone was on their best behaviour, and thus civil unrest and slime on the carpet were averted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a beautiful afternoon. Lord Vetinari was sitting in the palace gardens, watching the butterflies with an expression of mild annoyance. He found something very slightly offensive about the way they just fluttered around enjoying themselves in an unprofitable way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Archchancellor,' he said. 'So good to see you. Do sit down. I trust you are well?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed,' said Mustrum Ridcully. 'And yourself? You are in good health?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never better. The weather, I see, has turned out nice again.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought yesterday was particularly fine, certainly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tomorrow, I am told, could well be even better.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We could certainly do with a fine spell.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched the butterflies. A butler brought long, cool drinks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is it they actually do with the flowers?' said Lord Vetinari.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician shrugged. 'Never mind. It was not at all important. But - since you are here, Archchancellor, having dropped by on your way to something infinitely more important, I am sure, most kind - I wonder if you could tell me: who is the Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully considered this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Dean, possibly,' he said. 'He must be all of twenty stone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Somehow I feel that is not perhaps the right answer,' said Lord Vetinari. 'I suspect from context that "great" means superior.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not the Dean, then,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari tried to recollect the faculty of Unseen University. The mental picture that emerged was of a small range of foothills in pointy hats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The context does not, I feel, suggest the Dean,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... what context would this be?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician picked up his walking stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come this way,' he said. 'I suppose you had better see for yourself. It is very vexing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked around with interest as he followed Lord Vetinari. He did not often have a chance to see the gardens, which had been written up in the 'How Not To Do It' section of gardening manuals everywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had been laid out, and a truer phrase was never used, by the renowned or at least notorious landscape gardener and all round inventor 'Bloody Stupid' Johnson, whose absent-mindedness and blindness to elementary mathematics made every step a walk with danger. His genius... well, as far as Ridcully understood it, his genius was exactly the opposite of whatever kind of genius it was that built earthworks that tapped the secret yet beneficent forces of the leylines.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one was quite certain what forces Bloody Stupid's designs tapped, but the chiming sundial frequently exploded, the crazy paving had committed suicide and the cast iron garden furniture was known so have melted on three occasions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician led the way through a gate and into something like a dovecot. A creaking wooden stairway led around the inside. A few of Ankh-Morpork's indestructible feral pigeons muttered and sniggered in the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's this?' said Ridcully, as the stairs groaned under him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician took a key out of his pocket. 'I have always understood that Mr Johnson originally planned this to be a beehive,' he said. 'However, in the absence of bees ten feet long we have found... other uses.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He unlocked a door to a wide, square room with a big unglazed window in each wall. Each rectangle was surrounded by a wooden arrangement to which was affixed a bell on a spring. It was apparent that anything large enough, entering by one of the windows, would cause the bell to ring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the centre of the room, standing on a table, was the largest bird Ridcully had ever seen. It turned and fixed him with a beady yellow eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician reached into a pocket and took out a jar of anchovies. 'This one caught us rather unexpectedly,' he said. 'It must be almost ten years since a message last arrived. We used to keep a few fresh mackerel on ice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't that a Pointless Albatross?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed,' said Lord Vetinari. 'And a highly trained one. It will return this evening. Six thousand miles on one jar of anchovies and a bottle of fish paste my clerk Drumknott found in the kitchens. Amazing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry?' said Ridcully. 'Return to where?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari turned to face him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Not</em>, let me make it clear, to the Counterweight Continent,' he said. 'This is <em class="calibre8">not</em> one of those birds the Agatean Empire uses for its message services. It is a well-known fact that we have no contact with that mysterious land. And this bird is <em class="calibre8">not</em> the first to arrive here for many years, and it did <em class="calibre8">not</em> bring a strange and puzzling message. Do I make myself clear?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is not an albatross?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician smiled. 'Ah, I can see you're getting the hang of it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mustrum Ridcully, though possessed of a large and efficient brain, was not at home with duplicity. He looked at the long vicious beak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like a bloody albatross to me,' he said. 'And you just said it was. I said, isn't that a—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician waved a hand irritably. 'Leaving aside our ornithological studies,' he said, 'the point is that this bird had, in its message pouch, the following piece of paper—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean did <em class="calibre8">not</em> have the following piece of paper?' said Ridcully, struggling for a grip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes. Of course, that is what I mean. And this isn't it. Observe.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed a single small sheet to the Arch-chacellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like paintin',' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Those are Agatean pictograms,' said the Patrician.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean they're <em class="calibre8">not</em> Agatean pictograms?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, certainly,' sighed the Patrician, 'I can see you are well alongside the essential business of diplomacy. Now... your views, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like slosh, slosh, slosh, slosh, Wizzard,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And from that you deduce... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He took Art because he wasn't any good at spelling I mean, who wrote it? Painted it, I mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. The Grand Viziers used to send the occasional message, but I gather there has been some turmoil in recent years. It is unsigned, you notice. However, I cannot ignore it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wizzard, wizzard,' said Ridcully, thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The pictograms mean "Send Us Instantly The Great",' said Lord Vetinari.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... wizzard...' said Ridcully to himself, tapping the paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Patrician tossed an anchovy to the albatross, which swallowed it greedily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Empire has a million men under arms,' he said. 'Happily, it suits the rulers to pretend that everywhere outside the Empire is a valueless howling waste peopled only by vampires and ghosts. They usually have no interest whatsoever in our affairs. This is fortunate for us, because they are both cunning, rich and powerful. Frankly, I had hoped they had forgotten about us altogether. And now this. I was hoping to be able to dispatch the wretched person and forget about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... wizzard,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps you would like a holiday?' said the Patrician, a hint of hope in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me? No. Can't abide foreign food,' said Ridculy quickly. He repeated, half to himself, 'Wizzard...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The word seems to fascinate you,' said Lord Vetinari.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seen it spelled like that before,' said Ridcully 'Can't remember where.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure you <em class="calibre8">will</em> remember. And will be in position to send the Great Wizard, however he spelled, to the Empire by teatime.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully's jaw dropped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Six thousand miles? By magic? Do you know hov hard that is?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I cherish my ignorance on the subject,' said Lord Vetinari.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Besides,' Ridcully went on, 'they're, well... foreign over there. I thought they had enough wizards of their own.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I really couldn't say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We don't know why they want this wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. But I'm sure there is someone you could spare. There seems to be such a lot of you down there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, it could be for some terrible foreign purj pose,' said Ridcully. For some reason the face of the Dean waddled across his mind, and he brightened upj 'They might be happy with a great wizard, do you think?' he mused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I leave that entirely to you. But by tonight I would like to be able to send back a message saying that the Great Wizzard is duly on his way. And then we can forget about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course, it would be very hard to bring the chap back,' said Ridcully. He thought of the Dean again. 'Practically impossible,' he added, in an inappropriately happy way. 'I expect we'd try for months and months without succeeding. I expect we'd attempt everything with no fuck. Damn it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can see you are agog to rise to this challenge,' said the Patrician. 'Let me not detain you from rushing back to the University and putting measures in hand.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... "wizzard"...' Ridcully murmured. 'Rings a faint bell, that. Think I've seen it before, somewhere.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The shark didn't think much. Sharks don't. Their thought processes can largely be represented by '='. You see it = you eat it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But, as it arrowed through the waters of the lagoon, its tiny brain began to receive little packages of selachian existential dread that could only be called doubts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It knew it was the biggest shark around. All the challengers had fled, or run up against good old '='.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yet its body told it that something was coming up fast behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It turned gracefully, and the first thing it saw was <em class="calibre8">hundreds</em> of legs and <em class="calibre8">thousands</em> of toes, a whole pork pie factory of piggy-wiggies.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Many things went on at Unseen University and, regrettably, teaching had to be one of them. The faculty had long ago confronted this fact and had perfected various devices for avoiding it. But this was perfectly all right because, to be fair, so had the students.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The system worked quite well and, as happens in such cases, had taken on the status of a tradition, Lectures clearly took place, because they were down there on the timetable in black and white. The fact that no-one attended was an irrelevant detail. It was occasionally maintained that this meant that the lectures did not in fact happen at all, but no-one ever attended them to find out if this was true. Anyway, it was argued (by the Reader in Woolly Thinking) that lectures had taken place <em class="calibre8">in essence</em>, so that was all right, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And therefore education at the University mostly worked by the age-old method of putting a lot of young people in the vicinity of a lot of books and hoping that something would pass from one to the other, while the actual young people put themselves in the vicinity of inns and taverns for exactly the same reason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the middle of the afternoon. The Chair of Indefinite Studies was giving a lecture in room 3B and therefore his presence asleep in front of the fire in the Uncommon Room was a technicality upon which no diplomatic man would comment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully kicked him on the shins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry to interrupt, Chair,' said Ridcully, in a very perfunctory way. 'God help me, I need the Council of Wizards. Where is everybody?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Chair of Indefinite Studies rubbed his leg. 'I know the Lecturer in Recent Runes is giving a lecture in 3B,' he said. 'But I don't know where he <em class="calibre8">is</em>. You know, that really hurt—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Round everyone up. My study. Ten minutes,' said Ridcully. He was a great believer in this approach. A less direct Archchancellor would have wandered around looking for everyone. His policy was to find one person and make their life difficult until every-thing happened the way he wanted it to.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing in nature had that many feet. True, some things had that many <em class="calibre8">legs</em> - damp, wriggling things that live under rocks - but those weren't legs with feet, they were just legs that ended without ceremony.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something brighter than the shark might have been wary But '=' swung treacherously into play and shot it forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was its first mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In these circumstances, one mistake = oblivion.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully was waiting impatiently when, one by one, the senior wizards filed in from serious lecturing in room 3B. Senior wizards needed a lot of lecturing in order to digest their food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone here?' he said. 'Right. Sit down. Listen carefully. Now... Vetinari hasn't had an albatross. It hasn't come all the way from the Counterweight Continent, and there isn't a strange message that we've got to obey, apparently. Follow me so far?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The senior wizards exchanged glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think we may be a shade unclear on the detail,' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was using diplomatic language.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could you, perhaps, try to be a little more indiscreet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got to send a wizard to the Counterweight Continent,' said Ridcully. 'And we've got to do it by teatime. Someone's asked for a Great Wizard and it seems we've got to send one. Only they spell it Wizzard—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oook?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Librarian?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unseen University's Librarian, who had been doz-ing with his head on the table, was suddenly sitting bolt upright. Then he pushed back his chair and, arms waving wildly for balance, left the room at a bow-legged run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably remembered an overdue book,' said the Dean. He lowered his voice. 'Am I alone in thinking, by the way, that it doesn't add to the status of this University to have an ape on the faculty?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Ridcully flatly. 'You are. We've got the only librarian who can rip off your arm with his leg. People respect that. Only the other day the head of the Thieves' Guild was asking me if we could turn <em class="calibre8">their</em> librarian into an ape and, besides, he's the only one of you buggers who stays awake more'n an hour a day. Anyway—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I find it embarrassing,' said the Dean. 'Also, he's not a proper orang-utan. I've been reading a book. It says a dominant male should have huge cheek pads. Has he got huge cheek pads? I don't thrnk so. And—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up, Dean,' said Ridcully, 'or I won't let you go to the Counterweight Continent.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't see what raising a perfectly valid - What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're asking for the Great Wizzard,' said Ridcully. 'And I immediately thought of you.' As the only man I know who can sit on two chairs at the same time, he added silently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Empire?' squeaked the Dean. 'Me? But they hate foreigners!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So do you. You should get on famously.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's six thousand miles!' said the Dean, trying a new tack. 'Everyone knows you can't get that far by magic.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. As a matter of fact you can, I think,' said a voice from the other end of the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked at Ponder Stibbons, the youngest and most depressingly keen member of the faculty He was holding a complicated mechanism of sliding wooden bars and peering at the other wizards over the top of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Shouldn't be too much of a problem,' he added. 'People used to think it was, but I'm pretty sure it's all a matter of energy absorption and attention to relative velocities.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The statement was followed with the kind of mystified and suspicious silence that generally succeeded one of his remarks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Relative velocities,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Archchancellor.' Ponder looked down at his prototype slide rule and waited. He <em class="calibre8">knew</em> that Ridcully would feel it necessary to add a comment at this point in order to demonstrate that he'd grasped something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My mother could move like lightning when—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean how fast things are going when compared to other things,' Ponder said quickly, but not quite quickly enough. 'We should be able to work it out quite easily. Er. On Hex.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, pushing his chair back. 'Not that. That's meddling with things you don't understand.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well we <em class="calibre8">are</em> wizards,' said Ridcully. 'We're supposed to meddle with things we don't understand. If we hung around waitin' till we understood things we'd never get anything done.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, I don't mind summoning some demon and asking it,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. 'That's normal. But building some mechanical contrivance to do your thinking for you, that's... against Nature. Besides,' he added in slightly less foreboding tones, 'last time you did a big problem on it the wretched thing broke and we had ants all over the place.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've sorted that out,' said Ponder. 'We—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I must admit there was a ram's skull in the middle of it last time I looked,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We had to add that to do occult transformations,' said Ponder, 'but—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And cogwheels and springs,' the Archchancellor went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, the ants aren't very good at differential analysis, so—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that strange wobbly thing with the cuckoo?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The unreal time clock,' said Ponder. 'Yes, we think that's essential for working out—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, it's all quite immaterial, because I certainly have no intention of going anywhere,' said the Dean. 'Send a student, if you must. We've got a lot spare ones.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good so be would you if, duff plum of helping second A,' said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The table fell silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone understand that?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar was not technically insane. He had passed through the rapids of insanity some time previously, and was now sculling around in some peaceful pool on the other side. He was often quite coherent, although not by normal human standards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um, he's going through yesterday again,' said the Senior Wrangler. 'Backwards, this time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We should send the Bursar,' said the Dean firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly not! You probably can't get dried frog pills there—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oook!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian re-entered the study at a bandy-legged run, waving something in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was red, or at least had at some time been red. It might well once have been a pointy hat, but the point had crumpled and most of the brim was burned away. A word had been embroidered on it in sequins. Many had been burned off, but:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WIZZARD</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... could just be made out as pale letters on the scorched cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">knew</em> I'd seen it before,' said Ridcully. 'On a shelf in the Library, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oook.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor inspected the remnant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wizzard?' he said. 'What kind of sad, hopeless person needs to write WIZZARD on their hat?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A few bubbles broke the surface of the sea, causing the raft to rock a little. After a while, a couple of pieces of shark skin floated up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed and put down his fishing rod. The rest of the shark would be dragged ashore later, he knew it. He couldn't imagine why. It wasn't as if they were good eating. They tasted like old boots soaked in urine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up a makeshift oar and set out for the beach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a bad little island. Storms seemed to pass it by. So did ships. But there were coconuts, and breadfruit, and some sort of wild fig. Even his experiments in alcohol had been quite successful, although he hadn't been able to walk properly for two days. The lagoon provided prawns and shrimps and oysters and crabs and lobsters, and in the deep green water out beyond the reef big silver fish fought each other for the privilege of biting a piece of bent wire on the end of a bit of string. After six months on the island, in fact, there was only one thing Rincewind lacked. He'd never really thought about it before. Now he thought about it - or, more correctly, <em class="calibre8">them</em> - all the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was odd. He'd hardly ever thought about them in Ankh-Morpork, because they were there if ever he wanted them. Now they weren't, and he <em class="calibre8">craved</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His raft bumped the white sand at about the same moment as a large canoe rounded the reef and entered the lagoon.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully was sitting at his desk now, surrounded by his senior wizards. They were trying to tell him things, despite the known danger of trying to tell Ridcully things, which was that he picked up the facts he liked and let the others take a running jump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So,' he said, '<em class="calibre8">not a</em> kind of cheese.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">No</em>, Archchancellor,' said the Chair of Indefinite Studies. 'Rincewind is a kind of wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not a cheese,' said Ridcully, unwilling to let go of a fact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds a sort of name you'd associate with cheese, I mean, a pound of Mature Rincewind, it rolls off the tongue...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Godsdammit</em>, Rincewind is not a cheese!' shouted the Dean, his temper briefly cracking. 'Rincewind is not a yoghurt or any kind of sour milk derivative! Rincewind is a bloody nuisance! A complete and utter disgrace to wizardry! A fool! A failure! Anyway, he hasn't been seen here since that... unpleasantness with the Sourcerer, years ago.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?' said Ridcully, with a certain kind of nasty politeness. 'A lot of wizards behaved very badly then, I understand.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, scowling at the Dean, who bridled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know anything about that, Runes. I wasn't Dean at the time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, but you were very senior.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps, but it just so happens that at the time I was visiting my aunt, for your information.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They nearly blew up the whole city!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She lives in Quirm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">And</em> Quirm was heavily involved, as I recall.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">—near</em> Quirm. <em class="calibre8">Near</em> Quirm. Not all that near, actually. Quite a way along the coast—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, <em class="calibre8">you</em> seem to be very well informed, eh, Runes?' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I - What? - I - was studying hard at the time. Hardly knew what was going on—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Half the University was blown down!' The Dean remembered himself and added, 'That is, so I heard. Later. After getting back from my aunt's.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but I've got a very thick door—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I happen to <em class="calibre8">know</em> the Senior Wrangler was here, because—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—with that heavy green baize stuff you can hardly hear any—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nap my for time it's think I.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Will you all shut up right now this minute</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully glared at his faculty with the clear, innocent glare of someone who was blessed at birth with no imagination whatsoever, and who had genuinely been hundreds of miles away during the University's recent embarrassing history.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' he said, when they had quietened down. 'This Rincewind. Bit of an idiot, yes? You talk, Dean. Everyone else will shut up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean looked uncertain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, er... I mean, it makes no sense, Archchancellor. He couldn't even do proper magic. What good would he be to anyone? Besides... where Rincewind went' - he lowered his voice - '<em class="calibre8">trouble followed behind</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully noticed that the wizards drew a little closer together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds all right to me,' he said. 'Best place for trouble behind. You certainly don't want it in front.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't understand, Archchancellor,' said the Dean. 'It followed behind on hundreds of little legs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor's smile stayed where it was while the rest of his face went solid behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You been on the Bursar's pills, Dean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I assure you, Mustrum—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then don't talk rubbish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very <em class="calibre8">well</em>, Archchancellor. But you do realize, don't you, that it might take years to find him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' said Ponder, 'if we can work out his thaumic signature, I think Hex could probably do it in a day...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean glared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's not magic!' he snapped. 'That's just... engineering!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind trudged through the shallows and used a sharp rock to hack the top off a coconut that had been cooling in a convenient shady rock pool. He put it to his lips.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow fell across him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It said, 'Er, hello?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was possible, if you kept on talking at the Arch-chancellor for long enough, that some facts might squeeze through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So what you're <em class="calibre8">tellin</em>' me,' said Ridcully, eventually, 'is that this Rincewind fella has been chased by just about every army in the world, has been bounced around life like a pea on a drum, and probably is the one wizard who knows anything about the Agatean Empire on account of once being friends with,' he glanced at his notes,' "a strange little man in glasses" who came from there and gave him this funny thing with the legs you all keep alluding to. And he can speak the lingo. Am I right so far?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Exactly, Archchancellor. Call me an idiot if you like,' said the Dean, 'but why would anyone want him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked down at his notes again. '<em class="calibre8">You've</em> decided to go, then?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, of course not—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What I don't think you've spotted here, Dean,' he said, breaking into a determinedly cheery grin, 'is what I might call the common denominator. Chap stays alive. Talented. Find him. And bring him here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wherever he is. Poor chap could be facing something <em class="calibre8">dreadful</em>.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The coconut stayed where it was, but Rincewind' s eyes swivelled madly from side to side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three figures stepped into his line of vision. They were obviously female. They were <em class="calibre8">abundantly</em> female. They were not wearing a great deal of clothing and seemed to be altogether too fresh-from-the-haidressers for people who have just been paddling a large war canoe, but this is often the case with beautiful Amazonian warriors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thin trickle of coconut milk began to dribble off the end of Rincewind's beard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The leading woman brushed aside her long blonde hair and gave him a bright smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know this sounds a little unlikely,' she said, 'but I and my sisters here represent a hitherto undiscovered tribe whose menfolk were recently destroyed in a deadly but short-lived and highly specific plague. Now we have been searching these islands for a man to enable us to carry on our line.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">How much do you think he weighs</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's eyebrows raised. The woman looked down shyly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You may be wondering why we are all blonde and white-skinned when everyone else in the islands around here is dark,' she said. 'It just seems to be one of those genetic things.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">About 120, 125 pounds. Put another pound or two of junk on the heap. Er. Can you detect... you</em> know... <em class="calibre8">IT</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">This is all going to go wrong, Mr Stibbons, I just know it</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He's only six hundred miles away and we know where</em> we <em class="calibre8">are, and he's on the right half of the Disc. Anyway, I've worked this out on Hex so nothing can possibly go wrong</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Yes, but can anyone</em> see... <em class="calibre8">that... you know</em>... <em class="calibre8">with the... feet</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's eyebrows waggled. A sort of choking noise came from his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Can't</em> see... <em class="calibre8">it. Will you lot stop huffing on my crystal</em> 
    <em class="calibre8">ball</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And, of course, if you were to come with us we could promise you... earthly and sensual pleasures such as those of which you may have dreamed...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">All right. On the count of three—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coconut dropped away. Rincewind swallowed. There was a hungry, dreamy look in his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can I have them mashed?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">NOW</em>!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">First there was the sensation of pressure. The world opened up in front of Rincewind and sucked him into it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it stretched out thin and went <em class="calibre8">twang</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cloud rushed past him, blurred by speed. When he dared open his eyes again it was to see, far ahead of him, a tiny black dot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It got bigger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It resolved itself into a tight cloud of objects. There were a couple of heavy saucepans, a large brass candlestick, a few bricks, a chair and a large brass blancmange mould in the shape of a castle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They hit him one after the other, the blancmange mould making a humorous clang as it bounced off his head, and then whirled away behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The next thing ahead of him was an octagon. A chalked one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hit it.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully stared down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A shade less than 125 pounds, I fancy,' he said. 'All the same... well done, gentlemen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dishevelled scarecrow in the centre of the circle staggered to its feet and beat out one or two small fires in its clothing. Then it looked around blearily and said, 'Hehehe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He could be a little disorientated,' the Archchancellor went on. 'More than six hundred miles in two seconds, after all. Don't give him a nasty shock.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like sleepwalkers, you mean?' said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, sleepwalkers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you wake sleepwalkers, their legs drop off. So my grandmother used to aver.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And are we <em class="calibre8">sure</em> it's Rincewind?' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> it's Rincewind,' said the Senior Wrangler. 'We spent <em class="calibre8">hours</em> looking for him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It could be some dangerous occult creature,' said the Dean stubbornly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'With that hat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a pointy hat. In a way. A kind of cargo-cult pointy hat, made out of split bamboo and coconut leaves, in the hope of attracting passing wizardliness. Picked out on it, in seashells held in place with grass, was the word WIZZARD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its wearer gazed right through the wizards and, as if driven by some sudden recollection of purpose, lurched abruptly out of the octagon and headed towards the door of the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards followed cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not sure I believe her. How many times did she see it happen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. She never said.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Bursar sleepwalks most nights, you know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does he? Tempting...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind, if that was the creature's name, headed out into Sator Square.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was crowded. The air shimmered over the braziers of chestnut sellers and hot potato merchants and echoed with the traditional street cries of Old Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure sidled up to a skinny man in a huge overcoat who was frying something over a little oil-heater in a wide tray around his neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The possibly-Rincewind grabbed the edge of the tray.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got... any... potatoes?' it growled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Potatoes? No, squire. Got some sausages inna bun.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The possibly-Rincewind froze. And then it burst into tears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sausage inna <em class="calibre8">buuunnnnnl</em>' it bawled. 'Dear old sausage inna inna inna buuunnn! Gimme saussaaage inna <em class="calibre8">buunnnnn</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It grabbed three off the tray and tried to eat them all at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief!' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure half ran, half capered away, fragments of bun and pork-product debris cascading from its unkempt beard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've never seen anyone eat three of Throat Dibbler's sausages inna bun and look so happy,' said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I've</em> never seen someone eat three of Throat Dibbler's sausages inna bun and loo|c so upright,' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've never seen anyone eat anything of Dibbler's and get away without paying,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure spun happily around the square, tears streaming down its face. The gyrations took it past an alley mouth, whereupon a smaller figure stepped out behind it and with some difficulty hit it on the back of the head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sausage-eater fell to his knees, saying, to the world in general, 'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No<em class="calibre8">no</em>no<em class="calibre8">no</em>no<em class="calibre8">no</em>no!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A rather older man stepped out and removed the cosh from the young man's hesitant hands, while the victim knelt and moaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think you ought to apologize to the poor gentleman,' said the older man. 'I don't know, what's he going to think? I mean, look at him, he made it so easy for you and what does he get? I mean, what did you think you were doing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mumblemumble, Mr Boggis,' said the boy, looking at his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What was that again? Speak up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Overarm Belter, Mr Boggis.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">That</em> was an Overarm Belter? You call that an Overarm Belter? That was an Overarm Belter, was it? <em class="calibre8">This</em> - excuse me, sir, we'll just have you up on your feet for a moment, sorry about this - <em class="calibre8">this</em> is an Overarm Belter—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!' shouted the victim and then, to the surprise of all concerned, he added: 'Hahahaha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What <em class="calibre8">you</em> did was - sorry to impose again, sir, this won't take a minute - what you did was <em class="calibre8">this—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow! Hahahaha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, you lot, you saw that? Come on, gather round...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half a dozen other youths slouched out of the alleyway and formed a ragged audience around Mr Boggis, the luckless student and the victim, who was staggering in a circle and making little 'oomph oomph' sounds but still, for some reason, apparently enjoying himself immensely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now,' said Mr Boggis, with the air of an old skilled craftsman imparting his professional expertise to an ungrateful posterity, 'when inconveniencing a customer from your basic alley entrance, the correct procedure is - Oh, hello, Mr Ridcully, didn't see you there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor gave him a friendly nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't mind us, Mr Boggis. Thieves' Guild training, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Boggis rolled his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno what they teaches 'em at school,' he said. 'It's jus' nothing but reading and writing all the time. When I was a lad school was where you learned somethin' <em class="calibre8">useful</em>. Right - you, Wilkins, stop that giggling, you have a go, excuse us just another moment, sir—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No<em class="calibre8">no</em>no<em class="calibre8">no</em>no<em class="calibre8">no</em>! My old granny could do better than that! Now <em class="calibre8">look</em>, you steps up trimly, places one hand on his shoulder here, for control... go on, you do it... and then smartly—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, can anyone tell me what he was doing wrong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure crawled away unnoticed, except by the wizards, while Mr Boggis was demonstrating the finer points of head percussion on Wilkins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It staggered to his feet and plunged on along the road, still moving like one hypnotized.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's crying,' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not surprising,' said the Archchancellor. 'But why's he grinnin' at the same time?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Curiouser and curiouser,' said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bruised and possibly poisoned, the figure headed back for the University, the wizards still trailing behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You must mean "curious and more curious", surely? And even then it doesn't make much sense—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It entered the gates but, this time, hurried jerkily through the main hall and into the Library.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian was waiting, holding - with something of a smirk on his face, and an orang-utan can really smirk - the battered hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazin',' said Ridcully. 'It's true! A wizard <em class="calibre8">will</em> always come back for his hat!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure grabbed the hat, evicted some spiders, threw away the sad affair made of leaves and put the hat on his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind blinked at the puzzled faculty. A light came on behind his eyes for the first time, as if up to now he'd merely been operating by reflex action.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. What have I just eaten?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Three of Mr Dibbler's finest sausages,' said Ridcully. 'Well, when I say finest, I mean "most typical", don'tcheknow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I see. And who just hit me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thieves' Guild apprentices out trainin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind blinked. 'This is Ankh-Morpork, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought so.' Rincewind blinked, slowly. 'Well,' he said, just as he fell forward, 'I'm back.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was flying a kite. It was something he did perfectly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong did everything perfectly. His water-colours were perfect. His poetry was perfect. When he folded paper, every crease was perfect. Imaginative, original , and definitely perfect. Lord Hong had long ago ceased pursuing perfection because he already had it nailed up in a dungeon somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was twenty-six, and thin, and handsome. He wore very small, very circular steel-rimmed spectacles. When asked to describe him, people often used the word 'smooth' or even 'lacquered'. And he had risen to the leadership of one of the most influential families in the Empire by relentless application, total focusing of his mental powers, and six well-executed deaths. The last one had been that of his father, who'd died happy in the knowledge that his son was maintaining an old family tradition. The senior families venerated their ancestors, and saw no harm in prematurely adding to their number.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now his kite, the black kite with the two big eyes, plunged out of the sky. He'd calculated the angle, needless to say, perfectly. Its string, coated with glue and ground glass, sawed through those of his fellow contestants and sent their kites tumbling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was genteel applause from the bystanders. People generally found it advisable to applaud Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed the string to a servant, nodded curtly at the fellow flyers, and strode towards his tent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once inside, he sat down and looked at his visitor. 'Well?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We sent the message,' said the visitor. 'No-one saw us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On the contrary,' said Lord Hong. 'Twenty people saw you. Do you know how hard it is for a guard to look straight ahead and see nothing when people are creeping around making a noise like an army and whispering to one another to be quiet? Frankly, your people do not seem to possess that revolutionary spark. What is the matter with your hand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The albatross bit it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong smiled. It occurred to him that it might have mistaken his visitor for an anchovy, and with some justification. There was the same fishy look about the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't understand, o lord,' said the visitor, whose name was Two Fire Herb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But they believe in the Great Wizzard and you <em class="calibre8">want</em> him to come here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, certainly. I have my... people in' - he tried the alien syllables - 'Ankh-More-Pork. The one so foolishly called the Great Wizzard <em class="calibre8">does</em> exist. But, I might tell you, he is renowned for being incompetent, cowardly and spineless. Quite proverbially so. So I think the Red Army should have their leader, don't you? It will... raise their morale.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled again. 'This is politics,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong picked up a book as his visitor left. But it was hardly a real book; pieces of paper had simply been fastened together with string, and the text was handwritten.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd read it many times before. It still amused him, mainly because the author had managed to be wrong about so many things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now, every time he finished a page, he ripped it out and, while reading the next page, carefully folded the paper into the shape of a chrysanthemum.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great Wizard,' he said, aloud. 'Oh, indeed. Very great.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind awoke. There were clean sheets and no-one was saying 'Go through his pockets,' so he chalked that up as a promising beginning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept his eyes shut, just in case there was anyone around who, once he was seen to be awake, would make life complicated for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elderly male voices were arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're all missin' the point. He survives. You keep on tellin' me he's had all these adventures and he's <em class="calibre8">still</em> alive.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean? He's got scars all over him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My point exactly, Dean. Most of 'em on his back, too. He leaves trouble behind. Someone Up There smiles on him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind winced. He had always been aware that Someone Up There was doing <em class="calibre8">something</em> on him. He'd never considered it was smiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's not even a proper wizard! He never got more than two per cent in his exams!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think he's awake,' said someone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave in, and opened his eyes. A variety of bearded, overly pink faces looked down upon him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How're you feeling, old chap?' said one, extending a hand. 'Name's Ridcully. Archchancellor. How're you feeling?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all going to go wrong,' said Rincewind flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What d'you mean, old fellow?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just know it. It's all going to go wrong. Something dreadful's going to happen. I thought it was too good to last.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see?' said the Dean. 'Hundreds of little legs. I <em class="calibre8">told</em> you. Would you listen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sat up. 'Don't start being nice to me,' he said. 'Don't start offering me grapes. No-one ever wants me for something <em class="calibre8">nice</em>.' A confused memory of his very recent past floated across his mind and he experienced a brief moment of regret that potatoes, while uppermost in his mind at that point, had not been similarly positioned in the mind of the young lady. No-one dressed like that, he was coming to realize, could be thinking of any kind of root vegetable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed. 'All right, what happens now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How do you feel?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shook his head. 'It's no good,' he said. 'I hate it when people are nice to me. It means something bad is going to happen. Do you mind shouting?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully had had enough. 'Get out of that bed you horrible little man and follow me this minute or it will go very hard for you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, that's better. I feel <em class="calibre8">right</em> at home now. <em class="calibre8">Now</em> we're cooking with charcoal,' said Rincewind, glumly. He swung his legs off the bed and stood up carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully stopped halfway to the door, where the other wizards had lined up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Runes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Archchancellor?' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, his voice oozing innocence. 'What is that you've got behind your back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Archchancellor?' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like some kind of tool,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">this</em>,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, as if he'd only just at that moment noticed the eight-pound lump hammer he'd been holding. 'My word... it's a <em class="calibre8">hammer</em>, isn't it? My word. A hammer. I suppose I must just have... picked it up somewhere. You know. To keep the place tidy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I can't help noticing,' said Ridcully, 'that the Dean seems to be tryin' to conceal a battle-axe about his person.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a musical twang from the rear of the Chair of Indefinite Studies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that sounded like a saw to me,' said Ridcully. 'Is there anyone here not concealin' some kind of implement? Right. Would anyone care to explain what the hell you think you're doin'?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah, you don't know what it was like,' muttered the Dean, not meeting the Archchancellor's eye. 'A man daren't turn his back for five minutes in those days. You'd hear the patter of those damn feet and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully ignored him. He put an arm around Rincewind's bony shoulders and led the way towards the Great Hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, now, Rincewind,' he said. 'They tell me you're no good at magic.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never passed any exams or anything?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'None, I'm afraid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But everyone calls you Rincewind the wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at his feet. 'Well, I kind of worked here as sort of deputy Librarian—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—an ape's number two—' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and, you know, did odd jobs and things and kind of, you know, helped out—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I say, did anyone notice that? An ape's number two? Rather clever, I thought</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you have never, in fact, actually been <em class="calibre8">entitled</em> to call yourself a wizard?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not technically, I suppose...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">see</em>. That is a problem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've got this hat with the word "Wizzard" on it,' said Rincewind hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not a great help, I'm afraid. Hmm. This presents us with a bit of a difficulty, I'm afraid. Let me see... How long can you hold your breath?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. A couple of minutes. Is that important?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is in the context of being nailed upside down to one of the supports of the Brass Bridge for two high tides and then being beheaded which, I'm afraid, is the statutory punishment for impersonating a wizard. I looked it up. No-one was more sorry than me, I can tell you. But the Lore is the Lore.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry. No alternative. Otherwise we'd be knee-deep in people in pointy hats they'd no right to. It's a terrible shame. Can't do a thing. Wish I could. Hands tied. The statutes say you can only be a wizard by passing through the University in the normal way or by performing some great service of benefit to magic, and I'm afraid that—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Couldn't you just send me back to my island? I <em class="calibre8">liked it there</em>. It was dull!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully shook his head sadly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No can do, I'm afraid. The offence has been committed over a period of many years. And since you haven't passed any exams or performed,' Ridcully raised his voice slightly, '<em class="calibre8">any service of great benefit to magic</em>, I'm afraid I shall have to instruct the bledlows to fetch some rope and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. I think I may have saved the world a couple of times,' said Rincewind. 'Does that help?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did anyone from the University see you do it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I don't think so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully shook his head. 'Probably doesn't count, then. It's a shame, because <em class="calibre8">if you had performed any service of great benefit to magic</em> then I'd be happy to let you keep that hat and, of course, something to wear it on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked crestfallen. Ridcully sighed, and had one last try.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So,' he said, 'since it seems that you haven't actually passed your exams OR PERFORMED A SERVICE OF GREAT BENEFIT TO MAGIC, then—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose... I could try to perform some great service?' said Rincewind, with the expression of one who knows that the light at the end of the tunnel is an incoming train.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Hmm? Well, that's definitely a thought,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What sort of services are they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, typically you'd be expected to, for the sake of example, go on a quest, or find the answer to some very ancient and important question - <em class="calibre8">What the hell is that thing with all the legs</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind didn't even bother to look round. The expression on Ridcully's face, as it stared over his shoulder, was quite familiar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' he said, 'I think I know that one.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magic isn't like maths. Like the Discworld itself, it follows common sense rather than logic. And nor is it like cookery. A cake's a cake. Mix the ingredients up right and cook them at the right temperature and a cake happens. No casserole requires moonbeams. No souffle ever demanded to be mixed by a virgin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, those afflicted with an enquiring turn of mind have often wondered whether there are <em class="calibre8">rules</em> of magic. There are more than five hundred known spells to secure the love of another person, and they range from messing around with fern seed at midnight to doing something rather unpleasant with a rhino horn at an unspecified time, but probably not just after a meal. Was it possible (the enquir ing minds enquired) that an analysis of all these spells might reveal some small powerful common denominator, some meta-spell, some simple little equation which would achieve the required end far more simply, and incidentally come as a great relief to all rhinos?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To answer such questions Hex had been built, although Ponder Stibbons was a bit uneasy about the word 'built' in this context. He and a few keen students had put it together, certainly, but... well... sometimes he thought bits of it, strange though this sounded, <em class="calibre8">just turned up</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For example, he was pretty sure no-one had designed the Phase of the Moon Generator, but there it was, clearly a part of the whole thing. They <em class="calibre8">had</em> built the Unreal Time Clock, although no-one seemed to have a very clear idea how it worked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What he suspected they were dealing with was a specialized case of formative causation, always a risk in a place like Unseen University, where reality was stretched so thin and therefore blown by so many strange breezes. If that was so, then they weren't exactly designing something. They were just putting physical clothes on an idea that was already there, a shadow of something that had been waiting to exist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd explained at length to the Faculty that Hex didn' <em class="calibre8">think</em>. It was obvious that it couldn't think. Part of it was clockwork. A lot of it was a giant ant farm (the interface, where the ants rode up and down on a little paternoster that turned a significant cogwheel was a little masterpiece, he thought) and the intricately controlled rushing of the ants through their maze of glass tubing was the most important part of the whole thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But a lot of it had just... accumulated, like the aquarium and wind chimes which now seemed to be essential. A mouse had built a nest in the middle of it all and had been allowed to become a fixture, since the thing stopped working when they took it out. Nothing in that assemblage could possibly think, except in fairly limited ways about cheese or sugar, Nevertheless... in the middle of the night, when Hex was working hard, and the tubes rustled with the toiling ants, and things suddenly went 'clonk' for no obvious reason, and the aquarium had been lowered on its davits so that the operator would have some-thing to watch during the long hours ....evertheless, <em class="calibre8">then</em> a man might begin to speculate about what a brain was and what thought was and whether things that weren't alive could think and whether a brain was just a more complicated version of Hex (or, around 4 a.m., when bits of the clockwork reversed direction suddenly and the mice squeaked, a <em class="calibre8">less</em> complicated version of Hex) and wonder if the whole produced something not apparently inherent in the parts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In short, Ponder was just a little bit worried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat down at the keyboard. It was almost as big as the rest of Hex, to allow for the necessary levers and armatures. The various keys allowed little boards with holes in them to drop briefly into slots, forcing the ants into new paths.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took him some time to compose the problem, but at last he braced one foot on the structure and tugged on the Enter lever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ants scurried on new paths. The clockwork started to move. A small mechanism which Ponder would be prepared to swear had not been there yesterday, but which looked like a device for measuring wind speed, began to spin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After several minutes a number of blocks with occult symbols on them dropped into the output hopper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you,' said Ponder, and then felt extremely silly for saying so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tension to the thing, a feeling of nute straining and striving towards some distant and incomprehensible goal. As a wizard, it was something that Ponder had only before encountered in acorns: a tiny soundless voice which said, yes, I am but a small, green, simple object - but I dream about forests.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only the other day Adrian Turnipseed had typed in 'Why?' to see what happened. Some of the students had forecast that Hex would go mad trying to work it out; Ponder had expected Hex to produce the message ?????, which it did with depressing frequency.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead, after some unusual activity among the ants, it had laboriously produced: 'Because.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With everyone else watching from behind a hastily overturned desk, Turnipseed had volunteered: 'Why anything?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The reply had finally turned up: 'Because Everything. ????? Eternal Domain Error. +++++ Redo From Start +++++.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one knew who Redo From Start was, or why he was sending messages. But there were no more funny questions. No-one wanted to risk getting answers. It was shortly afterwards that the thing like a broken umbrella with herrings on it appeared just behind the thing like a beachball that went 'parp' every fourteen minutes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, books of magic developed a certain... <em class="calibre8">personality</em>, derived from all that power in their pages. That's why it was unwise to go into the Library without a stick. And now Ponder had helped build an engine for studying magic. Wizards had always known that the act of observation changed the thing that was observed, and sometimes forgot that it also changed the observer too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was beginning to suspect that Hex was redesigning itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he'd just said 'Thank you'. To a thing that looked like it had been made by a glassblower with hiccups.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at the spell it had produced, hastily wrote it down and hurried out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hex clicked to itself in the now empty room. The thing that went 'parp' went parp. The Unreal Time Clock ticked sideways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a rattle in the output slot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't mention it. ++?????++ Out of Cheese Error. Redo From Start.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was five minutes later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fascinatin',' said Ridcully. 'Sapient pearwood, eh?' He knelt down in an effort to see underneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage backed away. It was used to terror, horror, fear and panic. It had seldom encountered interest before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor stood up and brushed himself off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' he said, as a dwarfish figure approached. 'Here's the gardener with the stepladder. The Dean's in the chandelier, Modo.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm quite happy up here, I assure you,' said a voice from the ceiling regions. 'Perhaps someone would be kind enough to pass me up my tea?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I was amazed the Senior Wrangler could ever <em class="calibre8">fit</em> in the sideboard,' said Ridcully. 'It's amazin' how a man can fold himself up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was just - just inspecting the silverware,' said a voice from the depths of a drawer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage opened its lid. Several wizards jumped back hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully examined the shark teeth stuck here and there in the woodwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Kills sharks, you say?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Rincewind. 'Sometimes it drags them ashore and jumps up and down on them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully was impressed. Sapient pearwood was very rare in the countries between the Ramtops and the Circle Sea. There were probably no living trees left. A few wizards were lucky enough to have inherited staffs made out of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Economy of emotion was one of Ridcully's strong points. He had been impressed. He had been fascnated. He'd even, when the thing had landed in the middle of the wizards and caused the Dean's remarkable feat of vertical acceleration, been slightly aghast. But he hadn't been frightened, because he didn't have the imagination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My goodness,' said a wizard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Bursar?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's this book the Dean loaned me, Mustrum. It's about apes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's most fascinating,' said the Bursar, who was on the median part of his mental cycle and therefore vaguely on the right planet even if insulated from it by five miles of mental cotton wool. 'It's true what he said. It says here that an adult male orang-utan doesn't grow the large flamboyant cheek pads unless he's the dominant male.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that's fascinating, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes, because he hasn't got 'em. I wonder why? He certainly dominates the Library, I should think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes,' said the Senior Wrangler, 'but he knows he's a wizard, too. So it's not as though he dominates the whole University.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One by one, as the thought sank in, they grinned at the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you look at my cheeks like that!' said Ridcully. 'I don't dominate anybody!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was only—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you can all shut up or there will be big trouble!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You should read it,' said the Bursar, still happily living in the valley of the dried frogs. 'It's amazing what you can learn.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Like... how to show your bottom to people?' said the Dean, from on high.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Dean. That's baboons,' said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I beg your pardon, I think you'll find it's gibbons,' said the Chair of Indefinite Studies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, gibbons are the ones that hoot. It's baboons if you want to see bottoms.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, he's never shown <em class="calibre8">me</em> one,' said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah, well, he wouldn't, would he?' said a voice from the chandelier. 'Not with you being dominant male and everything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two Chairs, you come down here this minute!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I seem to be entangled, Mustrum. A candle is giving me some difficulty.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shook his head and wandered away. There had certainly been some changes around the place since he had been there and, if it came to it, he didn't know how long ago that had been...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd never <em class="calibre8">asked</em> for an exciting life. What he really liked, what he sought on every occasion, was boredom. The trouble was that boredom tended to explode in your face. Just when he thought he'd found it he'd be suddenly involved in what he supposed other people - thoughtless, feckless people - would call an adventure. And he'd be forced to visit many strange lands and meet exotic and colourful people, although not for very long because usually he'd be running. He'd seen the creation of the universe, although not from a good seat, and had visited Hell and the afterlife. He'd been captured, imprisoned, rescued, lost and marooned. Sometimes it had all happened on the same day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Adventure! People talked about the idea as if it was something worthwhile, rather than a mess of bad food, no sleep and strange people inexplicably trying to stick pointed objects in bits of you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The <em class="calibre8">root</em> problem, Rincewind had come to believe, was that he suffered from pre-emptive karma. If it even <em class="calibre8">looked</em> as though something nice was going to happen to him in the near future, something bad would happen right now. And it went on happening to him right through the part where the good stuff should be happening, so that he never actually experienced it. It was as if he always got the indigestion <em class="calibre8">before</em> the meal and felt so dreadful that he never actually managed to eat anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere in the world, he reasoned, there was someone who was on the other end of the see-saw, a kind of mirror Rincewind whose life was a succession of wonderful events. He hoped to meet him one day, preferably while holding some sort of weapon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now people were babbling about sending him to the Counterweight Continent. He'd heard that life was dull there. And Rincewind really craved dullness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd really <em class="calibre8">liked</em> that island. He'd <em class="calibre8">enjoyed</em> Coconut Surprise. You cracked it open and, hey, there was coconut inside. That was the kind of surprise he liked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pushed open a door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The place inside <em class="calibre8">had</em> been his room. It was a mess. There was a large and battered wardrobe, and that was about the end of it as far as proper furniture was concerned unless you wanted to broaden the term to include a wicker chair with no bottom and three legs and a mattress so full of the life that inhabits mattresses that it occasionally moved sluggishly around the floor, bumping into things. The rest of the room was a litter of objects dragged in from the street - old crates, bits of planking, sacks...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind felt a lump in his throat. They'd left his room just as it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the wardrobe and rummaged through the moth-haunted darkness within, until his questing hand located—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—an ear—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—which was attached to a dwarf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What,' said Rincewind, 'are you doing in my wardrobe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wardrobe? Er... Er... Isn't this the Magic Kingdom of Scrumptiousness?' said the dwarf, trying not to look guilty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, and these shoes you're holding aren't the Golde Jewels of the Queen of the Fairies,' said Rincewind, snatching them out of the thief's hands. 'And <em class="calibre8">this</em> isn't the Wand of Invisibility and <em class="calibre8">these</em> aren't Giant Grumblenose's Wonderful Socks but <em class="calibre8">this</em> is my boot—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And stay out!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf ran for the door and paused, but only briefly, to shout: 'I've got a Thieves' Guild card! And you shouldn't hit dwarfs! That's speciesism!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Rincewind, retrieving items of clothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He found another robe and put it on. Here and there moths had worked their lacemaking skills and most of the red colour had faded to shades of orange and brown, but to his relief it was a proper wizard's robe. It's hard to be an impressive magic-user with bare knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gentle footsteps pattered to a halt behind him. He turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Open.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage obediently cracked its lid. In theory it should have been full of shark; in fact it was half full of coconuts. Rincewind turfed them out on to the floor and put the rest of the clothes inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lid slammed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now go down to the kitchen and get some potatoes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chest did a complicated, many-legged about-turn and trotted away. Rincewind followed it out and headed towards the Archchancellor's study. Behind him he could hear the wizards still arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd become familiar with the study through long years at Unseen. Generally he was there to answer quite difficult questions, like 'How can <em class="calibre8">anyone</em> get a negative mark in Basic Firemaking?' He'd spent a lot of time staring at the fixtures while people harangued him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had been changes here, too. Gone were the alembics and bubbling flagons that were the traditional props of wizardry; Ridcully's study was dominated by a full-size snooker table, on which he'd piled papers until there was no room for any more and no sign of green felt. Ridcully assumed that anything people had time to write down couldn't be important.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stuffed heads of a number of surprised animals stared down at him. From the antlers of one stag hung a pair of corroded boots Ridcuffy had won as a Rowing Brown for the University in his youth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a large model of the Discworld on four wooden elephants in a corner of the room. Rincewind was familiar with it. Every student was... The Counterweight Continent was a blob. It was a <em class="calibre8">shaped</em> blob; a not very inviting comma shape. Sailors had brought back news of it. They'd said that at one point broke into a pattern of large islands, stretching around the Disc to the even more mysterious island of Bhangbhangduc and the completely mythical continent known only on the charts as 'XXXX'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not that many sailors went near the Counterweight Continent. The Agatean Empire was known to ignore a very small amount of smuggling; presumably Ankh-Morpork had some things it wanted. But there was nothing official; a boat might come back loaded with silk and rare wood and, these days, a few wild-eyed refugees, or it might come back with its captain riveted upside down to the mast, or it might not come back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been very nearly everywhere, but the Counterweight Continent was an unknown land, or <em class="calibre8">terror incognita</em>. He couldn't imagine why they'd want any kind of wizard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed. He knew what he should do now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shouldn't even wait for the return of the Luggage from its argosy to the kitchens, from which the sound of yelling and something being repeatedly hit with a large brass preserving pan suggested it was going about his business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He should just gather up what he could carry and get the hell out of here. He—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Rincewind,' said the Archchancellor, who had an amazingly silent walk for such a large man. 'Keen to leave, I see.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Rincewind. 'Oh, yes. Very much so.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Army met in secret session. They opened their meeting by singing revolutionary songs and, since disobedience to authority did not come easily to the Agatean character, these had titles like 'Steady Progress And Limited Disobedience While Retaining Well-Formulated Good Manners'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it was time for the news.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Great Wizard <em class="calibre8">will</em> come. We sent the message, at great personal risk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How will we know when he arrives?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If he's the Great Wizard, we'll hear about it. And then—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gently Push Over The Forces of Repression!' they chorused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Fire Herb looked at the rest of the cadre. 'Exactly,' he said. 'And then, comrades, we must strike at the very heart of the rottenness. We must storm the Winter Palace!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence from the cadre. Then someone said, 'Excuse me, Two Fire Herb, but it is June.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then we can storm the Summer Palace!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A similar session, although without singing and with rather older participants, was taking place in Unseen University, although one member of the College Council had refused to come down from the chandelier. This was of some considerable annoyance to the Librarian, who usually occupied it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, if you don't trust my calculations, then what are the alternatives?' said Ponder Stibbons hotly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Boat?' said the Chair of Indefinite Studies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They sink,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'd get you there in no time at all,' said the Senior Wrangler. 'We're wizards, after all. We could give you your own bag of wind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Forward the Dean,' said Ridcully, pleasantly. 'I heard that,' said a voice from above. 'Overland,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. 'Up around the Hub? It's ice practically all the way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you don't sink on ice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. You tip up and <em class="calibre8">then</em> you sink and <em class="calibre8">then</em> the ice hits you on the head. Also killer whales. And great big seals vif teece ike iff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is off the wall, I know,' said the Bursar, brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is?' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A hook for hanging pictures on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief embarrassed silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good lord, is it that time already?' said the Arch-chancellor, taking out his watch. 'Ah, so it is. The bottle's in your left-hand pocket, old chap. Take three.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, magic is the only way,' said Ponder Stibbons. 'It worked when we brought him here, didn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Rincewind. 'Just send me thousands of miles with my pants on fire and you don't even know where I'll land? Oh, yes, that's ideal, that is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Ridcully, a man impervious to sarcasm. 'It's a big continent; we can't possibly miss it even with Mr Stibbons' precise calculations.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Supposing I end up crushed in the middle of a mountain?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't. The rock'll be brought back here when we do the spell,' said Ponder, who hadn't liked the crack about his maths.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So I'll still be in the middle of a mountain but in a me-shaped hole,' said Rincewind. 'Oh, good. Instant fossil.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't <em class="calibre8">worry</em>,' said Ridcully. 'It's just a matter of... thingummy, you know, all that stuff about three right angles making a triangle...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it possible you're talking about geometry?' said Rincewind, eyeing the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That kind of thing, yes. And you'll have your amazing Luggage item. Why, it'll practically be a holiday. It'll be easy. They probably just want to... to... ask you something, or something. And I hear you've got a talent for languages, so no problem there. You'll probably be away for a couple of hours at the most. Why do you keep sayin' "hah" under your breath?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And everyone will be so grateful if you come back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around - and, in one case, up - at the Council.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How <em class="calibre8">will</em> I get back?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Same way you went. We'll find you and bring you out. With surgical precision.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind groaned. He knew what surgical precision meant in Ankh-Morpork. It meant 'to within an inch or two, accompanied by a lot of screaming, and then they pour hot tar on you just where your leg was'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But... if you put aside for the moment the certainty that something would definitely go horribly wrong, it looked foolproof. The trouble was that wizards were such ingenious fools.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And then I can have my old job back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And officially call myself a wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course. With any kind of spelling.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And never have to go anywhere again as long as I live?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine. We'll actually ban you leaving the premises, if you like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And a new hat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A new hat. This one's practically had it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two new hats.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sequins?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course. And those, you know, like glass chandelier things? Lots of those all round the brim. As many as you like. And we'll spell Wizzzard with three Z's.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed. 'Oh, all right. I'll do it.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder's genius found itself rather cramped when it came to explaining things to people. And this was the case now, as the wizards forgathered to kick some serious magic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but you see, Archchancellor, he's being sent to the opposite side of the Disc, you see—' Ridcully sighed. 'It's <em class="calibre8">spinnin</em>', isn't it,' he said. 'We're all going the same way. It stands to reason. If people're going the other way just because they're on the Counterweight Continent we'd crash into them once a year. I mean twice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, they're <em class="calibre8">spinning</em> the same way, of course, but the direction of motion is entirely opposite. I mean,' said Ponder, lapsing into logic, 'you have to think about vectors, you, you have to ask yourself: what direction would they go in if the Disc wasn't here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards stared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Down,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, <em class="calibre8">no</em>, Archchancellor,' said Ponder. 'They wouldn't go down because there'd be nothing to pull them down, they—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't need anything to <em class="calibre8">pull</em> you down. Down's where you go if there's nothing to keep you up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">They'd keep on going in the same direction</em>!' shouted Ponder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. Round and round,' said Ridcully. He rubbed his hands together. 'You've got to maintain a grip if you want to be a wizard, lad. How're we doing, Runes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... I can make out something,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, squinting into the crystal ball. 'There's a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of interference...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards gathered round. White specks filled the crystal. There <em class="calibre8">were</em> vague shapes just visible in the mush. Some of them could be human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very peaceful place, the Agatean Empire,' said Ridcully. 'Very tranquil. Very cultured. They set great store in politeness.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes, 'I heard it was because people who <em class="calibre8">aren't</em> tranquil and quiet get serious bits cut off, don't they? I heard the Empire has a tyrannical and repressive government!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What form of government is that?' said Ponder Stibbons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A tautology,' said the Dean, from above.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How serious are these bits?' said Rincewind. They ignored him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I heard that gold's very common there,' said the Dean. 'Lying around like dirt, they say. Rincewind could bring back a sackful.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd rather bring back all my bits,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After all, he thought, I'm only the one who's going to end up in the middle of it all. So please don't anyone bother to listen to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't you stop it blurring like that?' said the Archchancellor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry, Archchancellor—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'These bits... big bits or small bits?' said Rincewind, unheard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just find us an open space with something about the right size and weight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's very hard to—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very serious bits? Are we in arms and legs territory here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say it's very boring there. Their biggest curse is "May you live in interesting times", apparently.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a thing... it's very blurry. Looks like a wheelbarrow or something. Quite small, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—or toes, ears, that kind of thing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good, let's get started,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, I think it'll help if he's a bit heavier than the thing we move here,' said Ponder. 'He won't arrive at any speed, then. I think—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, thank you very much, Mister Stibbons, now get in the circle and let us see that staff crackle, there's a good chap.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fingernails? Hair?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind tugged at the robe of Ponder Stibbons, who seemed slightly more sensible than the others.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. What's my next move here?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Urn. About six thousand miles, I hope,' said Ponder Stibbons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... I mean... Have you got any advice?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder wondered how to put things. He thought: I've done my best with Hex, but the actual business will be undertaken by a bunch of wizards whose idea of experimental procedure is to throw it and then sit down and argue about where it's going to land. We want to change your position with that of something six thousand miles away which, whatever the Arch-chancellor says, is heading through space in a quite different direction. The key is <em class="calibre8">precision</em>. It's no good using any old travelling spell. It'd come apart halfway, and so would you. I'm pretty sure that we'll get you there in one or, at worst, two pieces. But we've no way of knowing the weight of the thing we change you with. If it's pretty much the same weight as you, then it might just all work out provided you don't mind jogging on the spot when you land. But if it's a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> heavier than you, then my suspicion is that you'll appear over there travelling at the sort of speed normally only experienced by sleep-walkers in clifftop villages in a very terminal way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' he said. 'Be afraid. Be very afraid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">that</em>,' said Rincewind. 'No problem there. I'm good at that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're going to try to put you in the centre of the continent, where Hunghung is believed to be,' said Ponder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The capital city?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Er.' Ponder felt guilty. 'Look, whatever happens I'm sure you'll get there alive, which is more than would happen if it'd just been left to them. And I'm <em class="calibre8">pretty</em> sure you'll end up on the right continent.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come <em class="calibre8">along</em>, Mr Stibbons. We're all agog to hear how you wish us to do this,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, er, yes. Right. Now, you, Mr Rincewind, if you will go and stand in the centre of the octagon... thank you. Um. You see, gentlemen, what has always been the problem with teleporting over large distances is Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, since the object teleported, that's from <em class="calibre8">tele</em>, "I see", and <em class="calibre8">porte</em>, "to go", the whole meaning "I see it's gone", er, the object teleported, er, no matter how large, is reduced to a thuamic particle and is therefore the subject of an eventually fatal dichotomy: it can either know what it is or where it is going, but not both. Er, the tension this creates in the morphic field eventually causes it to disintegrate, leaving the subject as a randomly shaped object, er, smeared across up to eleven dimensions. But I'm sure you all know this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a snore from the Chair of Indefinite Studies, who was suddenly giving a lecture in room 3B.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind was grinning. At least, his mouth had gaped open and his teeth were showing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, excuse me,' he said. 'I don't remember anyone saying anything about being sm—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course,' said Ponder, 'the subject would not, er, actually experience this—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—as far as we know—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—although it is theoretically possible for the psyche to remain present—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—briefly witness the explosive discorporation.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, we're all familiar with the use of the spell as a fulcrum, er, so that one does not actually move <em class="calibre8">one</em> object but simply exchanges the position of two objects of similar mass. It is my aim tonight, er, to demonstrate that by imparting exactly the right amount of spin and the maximum velocity to the object—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—from the very first moment, it is virtually cetain—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Virtually?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—to hold together for distances of up to, er, six thousand miles—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Up to</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">—</em>give or take ten per cent—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Give or take</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So if you'd - excuse me, Dean, I'd be obliged if you'd stop dripping wax - if you'd all take up the positions I've marked on the floor...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked longingly towards the door. It was no distance at all for the experienced coward. He could just trot out of here and they could... they could...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What could they do? They could just take his hat away and stop him ever coming back to the University. Now he came to think about it, they probably wouldn't be bothered about the nailing bit if he was too much bother to find.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And that was the problem. He wouldn't be dead, but then neither would he be a wizard. And, he thought, as the wizards shuffled into position and screwed down the knobs on the end of their staffs, not being able to think of himself as a wizard <em class="calibre8">was</em> being dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spell began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind the shoemaker? Rincewind the beggar? Rincewind the thief? Just about everything apart from Rincewind the corpse demanded training or aptitudes that he didn't have.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was no good at anything else. Wizardry was the only refuge. Well, actually he was no good at wizardry either, but at least he was <em class="calibre8">definitively</em> no good at it. He'd always felt he had a right to exist as a wizard in the same way that you couldn't do proper maths without the number 0, which wasn't a number at all but, if it went away, would leave a lot of larger numbers looking bloody stupid. It was a vaguely noble thought that had kept him warm during those occasional 3 a.m. awakenings when he had evaluated his life and found it weighed a little less than a puff of warm hydrogen. And he probably <em class="calibre8">had</em> saved the world a few times, but it had generally happened accidentally, while he was trying to do something else. So you almost certainly didn't actually get any karmic points for that. It probably only counted if you started out by thinking in a loud way 'By criminy, it's jolly well time to save the world, and no two ways about it!' instead of 'Oh shit, this time I'm <em class="calibre8">really</em> going to die.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spell continued.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It didn't seem to be going very well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, you chaps,' said Ridcully. 'Put some backbone into it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you sure... it's... just something small?' said the Dean, who'd broken into a sweat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like a... wheelbarrow...' muttered the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The knob on the end of Ridcully's staff began to smoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Will you look at the magic I'm using!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's goin' on, Mr Stibbons?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Of course, size isn't the same as mass...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, in the same way that it can take considerable effot to push at a sticking door and no effort at all to fall full length into the room beyond, the spell caught.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder hoped, afterwards, that what he saw was an optical illusion. Certainly no-one normally was suddenly stretched to about twelve feet tall and then snapped back into shape so fast that their boots ended up under their chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief cry of 'Oooooohhhhshhhhhh—' which ended abruptly, and this was probably just as well.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The first thing that struck Rincewind when he appeared on the Counterweight Continent was a cold sensation.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The next things, in order of the direction of travel, were: a surprised man with a sword, another man with a sword, a third man who'd dropped <em class="calibre8">his</em> sword and was trying to run away, two other men who were less alert and didn't even see him, a small tree, about fifty yards of stunted undergrowth, a snowdrift, a bigger snowdrift, a few rocks, and one more and quite final snowdrift.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully looked at Ponder Stibbons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, he's gone,' he said. 'But aren't we supposed to get something back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not sure the transit time is instantaneous,' said Ponder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've got to allow for zooming-through-the-occult-dimensions time?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something like that. According to Hex, we might have to wait several—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something appeared in the octagon with a 'pop', exactly where Rincewind had been, and rolled a few inches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did, at least, have four small wheels such as might carry a cart. But these weren't workmanlike wheels; these were mere discs such as may be put on something heavy for those rare occasions it needs to be moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above the wheels things became rather more interesting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a large round cylinder, like a barrel on its side. A considerable amount of effort had been put into its construction; large amounts of brass had gone into making it look like a very large, fat dog with its mouth open. A minor feature was a length of string, which was smoking and hissing because it was on fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It didn't do anything dangerous. It just sat there, while the smouldering string slowly got shorter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards gathered round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks pretty heavy,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A statue of a dog with a big mouth,' said the Chair of Indefinite Studies. That's rather dull.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bit of a lap-dog, too,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lot of work gone into it,' said the Dean. 'Can't imagine why anyone'd want to set fire to it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully poked his head into the wide tube.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some kind of big round ball in here,' he said, his voice echoing a little. 'Someone pass me a staff or something. I'll see if I can wiggle it out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder was staring at the fizzing string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' he said, 'I... er... think we should all just step away from it, Archchancellor. Er. We should all just step back, yes, step back a little way. Er.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah, yes, really? So much for research,' said Ridcully. 'You don't mind messing around with cogwheels and ants but when it comes to really trying to find out how things work and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Getting your hands dirty,' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, getting your hands dirty, you come over all shy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not that, Archchancellor,' said Ponder. 'But I believe it may be dangerous.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think I'm working it loose,' said Ridcully, poking in the depths of the tube. 'Come on, you fellows, tip the thing up a bit...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder took a few more steps back. 'Er, I really don't think—' he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't think, eh? Call yourself a wizard and you don't think? Blast! I've got my staff wedged now! That's what comes of listening to you when I should have been paying attention, Mr Stibbons.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder heard a scuffling behind him. The Librarian, with an animal's instinct for danger and a human's instinct for trouble, had upturned a table and was peering over the top of it with a small cauldron on his head, the handle under one of his chins like a strap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Archchancellor, I really <em class="calibre8">do</em> think—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you think, do you? Did anyone tell you it's your job to think? Ow! It's got my fingers now, thanks to you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It needed all Ponder's courage to say, 'I think... it might perhaps be some kind of firework, sir.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards turned their attention to the fizzling string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What... coloured lights, stars, that sort of thing?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Possibly, sir.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Must be planning a hell of a display. Apparently they're very keen on firecrackers, over in the Empire.' Ridcully spoke in the tone of voice of a man over whom the thought is slowly stealing that he just might have done something very silly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you like me to extinguish the string, sir?' said Ponder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, dear boy, why not? Good idea. Good thinking, that man.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder stepped forward and pinched the string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I do hope we haven't ruined something,' he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was <em class="calibre8">not</em> cool sheets. It was white, and it was cold, but it lacked basic sheetness. It made up for this by having vast amounts of snowosity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And a groove. A <em class="calibre8">long</em> groove.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Let's see now... He could remember the sensation of movement. And he vaguely remembered something small but incredibly /leauy-looking roaring past in the opposite direction. And then he was here, moving so fast that his feet left this...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... groove. Yes, groove, he thought, in the easy-going way of the mildly concussed. With people lying around it groaning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But they looked like people who, once they'd stopped crawling around groaning, were going to draw the swords they had about their persons and pay detailed attention to serious bits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood up, a little shakily. There didn't seem to be anywhere to run to. There was just this wide, snowy waste with a border of mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers were definitely looking a lot more conscious. Rincewind sighed. A few hours ago he'd been sitting on a warm beach with young women about to offer him potatoes, and here he was on a windswept, chilly plain with some large men about to offerr him violence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soles of his shoes, he noticed, were steaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then someone said, 'Hey! Are you... you're not, are you... are you... whatsyername... Rincewind, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a very old man behind him. Despite the bitter wind he was wearing nothing except a leather lioncloth and a grubby beard so long that the loincloth wasn't really necessary, at least from the point of view of decency. His legs were blue from the cold and his nose was red from the wind, giving him overall quite a patriotic look if you were from the right country. He had a patch over one eye but rather more notable than that were his teeth. They glittered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't stand there gawping like a big gawper! Get these damn things off me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were heavy shackles around his ankles and wrists; a chain led to a group of more or less similarly clad men who were huddling in a crowd and watching Rincewind in terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Heh! They think you're some kind of demon,' cackled the old man. 'But I knows a wizard when I sees one! That bastard over there's got the keys. Go and give him a good kicking.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a few hesitant steps towards a recumbent guard and snatched at his belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' said the old man, 'now chuck 'em over here. And then get out of the way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos you don't want to get blood all over you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you haven't got a weapon and there's one of you and they've got big swords and there's five of them!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know,' said the old man, wrapping the chain around one of his fists in a businesslike manner. 'It's unfair, but I can't wait around all day.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gems glittered in the morning light. Every tooth in the man's head was a diamond. And Rincewind knew of only one man who had the nerve to wear troll teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here? Cohen the Barbarian?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ssh! Ingconitar! Now get out of the way, I said.' The teeth flashed at the guards, who were now vertical. 'Come on, boys. There's five of you, after all. An' I'm an old man. Mumble, mumble, oo me leg, ekcetra...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To their credit, the guards hesitated. It was probably not, to judge from their faces, because there's something reprehensible about five large, heavily be-weaponed men attacking a frail old man. It might have been because there's something odd about a frail old man who keeps on grinning in the face of obvious oblivion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, come <em class="calibre8">on</em>,' said Cohen. The men edged closer, each waiting for one of the others to make the first move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen took a few steps forward, waving his arms wearily. 'Oh, <em class="calibre8">no/</em> he said. 'It makes me ashamed, honestly it does. This is <em class="calibre8">not</em> how you attack someone, all milling around like a lot of millers; when you attack someone the important thing to remember is the element of... <em class="calibre8">surprise—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten seconds later he turned to Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, Mister Wizard. You can open your eyes now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One guard was upside down in a tree, one was a pair of feet sticking out of a snowdrift, two were slumped against rocks, and one was... generally around the place. Here and there. Certainly hanging out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen sucked his wrist thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon that last one came within an inch of getting me,' he said. 'I must be getting old.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why are you h—' Rincewind paused. One packet of curiosity overtook the first one. 'How old <em class="calibre8">are</em> you, exactly?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is this still the Century of the Fruitbat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I dunno. Ninety? Could be ninety. Maybe ninety-five?' Cohen fished the keys out of the snow and ambled over to the group of men, who were cowering even more. He unlocked the first set of manacles and handed the shocked prisoner the keys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bugger off, the lot of you,' he said, not unkindly. 'And don't get caught again.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He strolled back to Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What brings you into this dump, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Interestin',' said Cohen, and that was that. 'But can't stay chatting all day, got work to do. You coming, or what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please yourself.' Cohen tied the chain around his waist as a makeshift belt and wedged a couple of swords in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Incidentally,' he said, 'what did you do with the Barking Dog?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What dog?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect it doesn't matter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind scuttled after the retreating figure, It wasn't that he felt safe when Cohen the Barbarian was around. <em class="calibre8">No-one</em> was safe when Cohen the Barbarian was around. Something seemed to have gone wrong with the ageing process there. Cohen had always been a barbarian hero because barbaric heroing was all he knew how to do. And while he got old he seemed to get harder, like oak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he was a known figure, and therefore comforting. He just wasn't in the right place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No future in it, back around the Ramtops,' said Cohen, as they trudged through the snow. 'Fences and farms, fences and farms <em class="calibre8">everywhere</em>. You kill a dragon these days, people <em class="calibre8">complain</em>. You know what? You know what happened?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. What happened?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Man came up to me, said my teeth were offensive to trolls. What about that, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, they <em class="calibre8">are</em> made of—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said they never complained to <em class="calibre8">me</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, did you ever give them a cha—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said, I see a troll up in the mountains with a necklace o' human skulls, I say good luck to him. Silicon Anti-Defamation League, my bottom. It's the same all over. So I thought I'd try my luck the other side of the icecap.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't it dangerous, going around the Hub?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Used to be,' said Cohen, grinning horribly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Until you left, you mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S right. You still got that box on legs?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On and off. It hangs around. You know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen chuckled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll get the bloody lid off that thing one day, mark my words. Ah. Horses.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were five, looking depressed in a small depression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked back at the freed prisoners, who seemed to be milling around aimlessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're not taking all five horses, are we?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sure. We might need 'em,'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... one for me, one for you... What's the rest for?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lunch, dinner and breakfast?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a little... unfair, isn't it? Those people look a bit bewildered.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen sneered the sneer of a man who has never been truly imprisoned even when he's been locked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I freed 'em,' he said. 'First time they've ever been free. Comes as a bit of a shock, I expect. They're waiting for someone to tell 'em what to do next.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could tell 'em to starve to death, if you like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, all <em class="calibre8">right</em>. You lot! Formee uppee right now toot sweet chop chop!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The small crowd hurried over to Cohen and stood expectantly behind his horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I tell you, I don't regret it. This is the land of opportunity,' said Cohen, urging the horse into a trot. The embarrassed free men jogged behind. 'Know what? Swords are banned. No-one except the army, the nobles and the Imperial Guard are allowed to own weapons. Couldn't believe it! Gods' own truth, though. Swords are outlawed, so only outlaws have swords. And <em class="calibre8">that</em>,' said Cohen, giving the landscape another glittering grin, 'suits me fine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... you were in chains...' Rincewind ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Glad you reminded me,' said Cohen. 'Yeah. We'll find the rest of the lads, then I'd better try and find who did it and talk to them about that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tone of his voice suggested very clearly that all they were likely to say would be, 'Highly enjoyable! Your wife is a big hippo!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lads?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No future in one-man barbarianing,' said Cohen. 'Got myself a... Well, you'll see.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned to look at the trailing party, and at the snow, and at Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Do you know where Hunghung is?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah. It's the boss city. We're on our way. Sort of. It's under siege right now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Siege? You mean like... lots of armies outside, everyone inside eating rats, that sort of thing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but this is the Counterweight Continent, see, so it's a polite siege. Well, I call it a siege... The old Emperor's dying, so the big families are all waiting to move in. That's how it goes in these parts. There's five different top nobs and they're all watching one another, and no-one's going to be the first to move. You've got to think sideways to understand anything in this place.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, lad?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What the hell's going on?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was watching the tea ceremony. It took three hours, but you couldn't hurry a good cuppa.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was also playing chess, against himself. It was the only way he could find an opponent of his calibre but, currently, things were stalemated because both sides were adopting a defensive strategy which was, admittedly, brilliant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong sometimes wished he could have an enemy as clever as himself. Or, because Lord Hong was indeed very clever, he sometimes wished for an enemy <em class="calibre8">almost</em> as clever as himself, one perhaps given to flights of strategic genius with nevertheless the occasional fatal flaw. As it was, people were so <em class="calibre8">stupid</em>. They seldom thought more than a dozen moves ahead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Assassination was meat and drink to the Hunghung court; in fact, meat and drink were often the means. It was a game that everyone played. It was just another kind of move. It was not considered good manners to assassinate the Emperor, of course. The correct move was to put the Emperor in a position where you had control. But moves at this level were very dangerous; happy as the warlords were to squabble amongst themselves, they could be relied upon to unite against any who looked in danger of rising above the herd. And Lord Hong had risen like bread, by making everyone else believe that, while <em class="calibre8">they</em> were the obvious candidate for the Emperorship, Lord Hong would be better than any of the alternatives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It amused him to know that they thought he was plotting for the Imperial pearl...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced up from the board and caught the eye of the young woman who was busy at the tea table. She blushed and looked away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door slid back. One of his men entered, on his knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... O lord...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong sighed. People seldom began like this when the news was good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What happened?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The one they call the Great Wizard arrived, o lord. Up in the mountains. Riding on a dragon of wind. Or so they say,' the messenger added quickly, aware of Lord Hong's views about superstition.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. But? I assume there is a but.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... one of the Barking Dogs has been lost. The new batch? That you commanded should be tested? We don't quite... that is to say... we think Captain Three High Trees was ambushed, perhaps... our information is somewhat confused... the, um, the informant says the Great Wizard magicked it away...' The messenger crouched lower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong merely sighed again. Magic. It had fallen out of favour in the Empire, except for the most mundane purposes. It was <em class="calibre8">uncultured</em>. It put power in the hands of people who couldn't write a decent poem to save their lives, and sometimes hadn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He believed in coincidence a lot more than he did in magic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is most vexing,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood up and took his sword off the rack. It was long and curved and had been made by the finest sword-maker in the Empire, who was Lord Hong. He'd heard it took twenty years to learn the art, so he had stretched himself a little. It had taken him three weeks. People never <em class="calibre8">concentrated</em>, that was their trouble...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The messenger grovelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The officer concerned has been executed?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The messenger tried to scrabble through the floor and decided to let truth stand in for honesty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!' he piped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong swung. There was a hiss like the fall of silk, a thump and clatter as of a coconut hitting the ground, and the tinkle of crockery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The messenger opened his eyes. He concentrated on his neck region, fearful that the slightest movement might leave him a good deal shorter. There were dire stories about Lord Hong's swords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, do get up,' said Lord Hong. He wiped the blade carefully and replaced the sword. Then he reached across and pulled a small black bottle from the robe of the tea girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Uncorked, it produced a few drops that hissed when they hit the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really,' said Lord Hong. 'I wonder why people bother.' He looked up. 'Lord Tang or Lord McSweeney has probably stolen the Dog to vex me. Did the Wizard escape?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So it seems, o lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. See that harm almost comes to him. And send me another tea girl. One with a head.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was this to be said about Cohen. If there was no reason for him to kill you, such as you having any large amount of treasure or being between him and somewhere he wanted to get to, then he was good company. Rincewind had met him a few times before, generally while running away from something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen didn't bother overmuch with questions. As far as Cohen was concerned, people appeared, people disappeared. After a five-year gap he'd just say, 'Oh, it's you.' He never added, 'And how are you?' You were alive, you were upright, and beyond that he didn't give a damn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a lot warmer beyond the mountains. To Rincewind's relief a spare horse didn't have to be eaten because a leopardly sort of creature dropped off a tree branch and tried to disembowel Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had a rather strong flavour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind <em class="calibre8">had</em> eaten horse. Over the years he'd nerved himself to eat anything that couldn't actually wriggle off his fork. But he was feeling shaken enough without eating something you could call Dobbin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did they catch you?' he said, when they were riding again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was busy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen the Barbarian? Too busy <em class="calibre8">to fight</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't want to upset the young lady. Couldn't help meself. Went down to a village to pick up some news, one thing led to another, next thing a load of soldiers were all over the place like cheap armour, and I can't fight that well with my arms shackled behind my back. Real nasty bugger in charge, face I won't forget in a hurry. Half a dozen of us were rounded up, made to push the Barking Dog thing all the way out here, then we were chained to that tree and someone lit the bit of string and they all legged it behind a snowdrift. Except you came along and vanished it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't vanish it. Not exactly, anyway.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen leaned across towards Rincewind. 'I reckon I know what it was,' he said, and sat back looking pleased with himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon it was some kind of firework. They're very big on fireworks here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean the sort of things where you light the blue touch paper and stick it up your nose?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They use 'em to drive evil spirits away. There's a lot of evil spirits, see. Because of all the slaughtering.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Slaughtering?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had always understood that the Agatean Empire was a peaceful place. It was civilized. They <em class="calibre8">invented</em> things. In fact, he recalled, he'd been instrumental in introducing a few of their devices to Ankh-Morpork. Simple, innocent things, like clocks worked by demons, and boxes that painted pictures, and extra glass eyes you could wear over the top of your own eyes to help you see better, even if it did mean you made a spectacle of yourself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was supposed to be <em class="calibre8">dull</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yeah. Slaughtering,' said Cohen. 'Like, supposing the population is being a bit behind with its taxes. You pick some city where people are being troublesome and kill everyone and set fire to it and pull down the walls and plough up the ashes. That way you get rid of the trouble and all the other cities are suddenly really well behaved and polite and all your back taxes turn up in a big rush, which is handy for governments, I understand. Then if they ever give trouble you just have to say "Remember Nangnang?" or whatever, and they say "Where's Nangnang?" and you say, "My point exactly." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief! If that sort of thing was tried back home—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, but this place has been going a long time. People think that's how a country is supposed to run. They do what they're told. The people here are treated like slaves.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen scowled. 'Now, I've got nothing against slaves, you know, as slaves. Owned a few in my time. <em class="calibre8">Been</em> a slave once or twice. But where there's slaves, what'll you expect to find?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind thought about this. 'Whips?' he said at last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah. Got it in one. Whips. There's something <em class="calibre8">honest</em> about slaves and whips. Well... they ain't got whips here. They got something worse than whips.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Rncewind, looking slightly panicky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll find out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind found himself looking around at the half-dozen other prisoners, who had trailed after them and were watching in awe from a distance. He'd given them a bit of leopard, which they'd looked at initially as if it was poison and then eaten as if it was food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're still following us,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, well... you did give 'em meat,' cackled Cohen, starting to roll a post-prandial cigarette. 'Shouldn't have done that. Should've let 'em have the whiskers and the claws and you'd've been <em class="calibre8">amazed at</em> what they'd cook up. You know their big dish down on the coast?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pig's ear soup. Now, what's that tell you about a place, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shrugged. 'Very provident people?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some other bugger pinches the pig.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned in the saddle. The group of ex-prisoners shrank back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, see here,' he said. 'I <em class="calibre8">told</em> you. You're free. Understand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the braver men spoke up. 'Yes, master.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ain't your master. You're <em class="calibre8">free</em>. You can go where-ever you like, excepting if you follow me I'll kill the lot of you. And now - go away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where, master?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anywhere! Somewhere not here!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men gave one another some worried looks and then the whole group, as one man, turned and trotted away along the path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably go straight back to their village,' he said, rolling his eyes. 'Worse than whips, I tell you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved a scrawny hand at the landscape as they rode on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Strange bloody country,' he said. 'Did you know there's a wall all round the Empire?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's to keep... barbarian invaders... out...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes, very defensive,' said Cohen sarcastically. 'Like, oh my goodness, there's a twenty-foot wall, dear me, I suppose we'd just better ride off back over a thousand miles of steppe and not, e.g., take a look at the ladder possibilities inherent in that pine wood over there. Nah. It's to keep the people in. And rules? They've got rules for everything. No-one even goes to the privy without a piece of paper.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, as a matter of fact I myself—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A piece of paper saying they can go, is what I meant. Can't leave your village without a chit. Can't get married without a chit. Can't even have a sh - Ah, we're here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen glared at him. 'How did you know?' he demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried to think. It had been a long day. In fact it had, because of the thaumic equivalent of jetlag, been several hours longer than most other days he'd experienced and had contained two lunchtimes, neither of which had contained anything worth eating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I thought you were making a general philosophical point,' he hazarded. 'Er. Like, "We'd better make the best of it"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant we're here at my hideout,' said Cohen. Rincewind stared around them. There were scrubby bushes, a few rocks, and a sheer cliff face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can't see anything,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep. That's how you can tell it's mine.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Art of War was the ultimate basis of diplomacy in the Empire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Clearly war had to exist. It was a cornerstone of the processes of government. It was the way the Empire got its leaders. The competitive examination system was how it got its bureaucrats and public officials, and warfare was for its leaders, perhaps, only a different kind of competitive examination. Admittedly, if you lost you probably weren't allowed to re-sit next year.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there had to be rules. Otherwise it was just a barbaric scuffle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So, hundreds of years ago, the Art of War had been formulated. It was a book of rules. Some were very specific: there was to be no fighting within the Forbidden City, the person of the Emperor was sacrosanct... and some were more general guidelines for the good and civilized conduct of warfare. There were the rules of position, of tactics, of the enforcement of discipline, of the correct organization of supply lines. The Art laid down the optimum course to take in every conceivable eventuality. It meant that warfare in the Empire had become far more <em class="calibre8">sensible</em>, and generally consisted of short periods of activity followed by long periods of people trying to find things in the index.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one remembered the author. Some said it was One Tzu Sung, some claimed it was Three Sun Sung. Possibly it was even some unsung genius who had penned, or rather painted, the very first principle: Know the enemy, and know yourself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong felt that he knew himself very well, and seldom had trouble knowing his enemies. And he made a point of keeping his enemies alive and healthy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Take the Lords Sung, Fang, Tang and McSweeney. He cherished them. He cherished their <em class="calibre8">adequacy</em>. They had adequate military brains, which was to say that they had memorized the Five Rules and Nine Principles of the Art of War. They wrote adequate poetry, and were cunning enough to counter such coups as were attempted in their own ranks. They occasionally sent against him assassins who were sufficiently competent to keep Lord Hong interested and observant and entertained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He even admired their adequate treachery. No-one could fail to realize that Lord Hong would be the next Emperor, but when it came to it they would nevertheless contest the throne. At least, officially. In fact, each warlord had privately pledged his personal support to Lord Hong, being adequately bright to know what was likely to happen if he didn't. There would still have to be a battle, of course, for custom's sake. But Lord Hong had a place in his heart for any leader who would sell his own men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Know your enemy. Lord Hong had decided to find a worthwhile one. So Lord Hong had seen to it that he got books and news from Ankh-Morpork. There were ways. He had his spies. At the moment Ankh-Morpork didn't know it was the enemy, and that was the best kind of enemy to have.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he had been amazed, and then intrigued, and finally lost in admiration for what he saw...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I should have been born there, he thought as he watched the other members of the Serene Council. Oh, for a game of chess with someone like Lord Vetinari. No doubt he would carefully watch the board for three hours before he even made his first move...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong turned to the Serene Council's minutes eunuch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can we get on?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man licked his brush nervously. 'Nearly finished, o lord,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn calligraphy! There would be changes! A written language of seven thousand letters and it took all day to write a thirteen-syllable poem about a white pony trotting through wild hyacinths. And that was fine and beautiful, he had to concede, and no-one did it better than Lord Hong. But Ankh-Morpork had an alphabet of twenty-six unexpressive, ugly, crude letters, suitable only for peasants and artisans... and had produced poems and plays that left white-hot trails across the soul. And you could also use it to write the bloody minutes of a five-minute meeting in less than a day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How far have you got?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eunuch coughed politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "How softly the bloom of the apric—" ' he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, yes,' said Lord Hong. 'Could we on this occasion dispense with the poetic framework, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh. "The minutes of the last meeting were duly signed." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that all?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh... you see, I have to finish painting the petals on—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wish this council to be concluded by this evening. Go away.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eunuch looked anxiously around the table, grabbed his scrolls and brushes and scuttled out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Lord Hong. He nodded at the other warlords. He saved a special friendly nod for Lord Tang. Lord Hong had prodded the thought with some intrigued interest, but it really did seem that Lord Tang was a man of honour. It was a rather cowed and crabbed honour, but it was definitely in there somewhere, and would have to be dealt with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It would be better in any case, my lords, if we spoke in private,' he said. 'On the matter of the rebels. Disturbing intelligence has reached me of their activities.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord McSweeney nodded. 'I have seen to it that thirty rebels in Sum Dim have been executed,' he said. 'As an example.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As an example of the mindlessness of Lord McSweeney, thought Lord Hong. To his certain knowledge, and none had better knowledge than he, there had not even been a cadre of the Red Army in Sum Dim. But, almost certainly, there was one now. It was really too easy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other warlords also made small but proud speeches about their efforts to turn barely noticeable unrest into bloody revolution, although they hadn't managed to see it like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were nervous, under the bravado, like sheep-dogs who'd had a glimpse of a world where the sheep did not run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong cherished the nervousness. He intended to use it, by and by. He smiled and smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally he said: 'However, my lords, despite your sterling efforts the situation remains grave. I have infomation that a very senior wizard from Ankh-Morpork has arrived to assist the rebels here in Hunghung, and that there is a plot to overthrow the good organization of the celestial world and assassin-ate the Emperor, may he live for ten thousand years. I must naturally assume that the foreign devils are be-hind this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know nothing of this!' snapped Lord Tang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My dear Lord Tang. I was not suggesting that you should,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant—' Lord Tang began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your devotion to the Emperor is unquestioned,' Lord Hong continued, as smoothly as a knife through warm butter. 'It is true that there is almost certainly someone highly placed assisting these people, but not one shred of evidence points to you,'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should hope not!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lords Fang and McSweeney moved very slightly away from Lord Tang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can we have let this happen?' said Lord Fang. 'Certainly it is true that people, foolish deranged people, have sometimes ventured out beyond the Wall. But to let one come <em class="calibre8">back—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am afraid the Grand Vizier at the time was a man of changeable humours,' said Lord Hong. 'He thought it would be interesting to see what intelligence was brought back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Intelligence?' said Lord Fang. 'This city of Ank... More... Pork is an abomination! Mere anarchy! There appear to be no nobles of consequence and the society is that of a termite nest! It would be better for us, my lords, if it was wiped from the face of the world!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your incisive comments are duly noted, Lord Fang,' said Lord Hong, while part of him rolled on the floor laughing. 'In any event,' he went on, 'I shall see that extra guards are posted in the Emperor's chambers However all this trouble began, we must see that it ends here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched them watching him. They think I want to rule the Empire, he thought. So they're all - except for Lord Tang, rebel fellow traveller as he will undoubtedly prove to be - working out how this will be to their advantage...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dismissed them, and retired to his chambers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a fact that the ghosts and devils who lived beyond the Wall had no grasp of culture and certainly no concept of books, and being in possession of such a patently impossible object was punishable by eventual death. And confiscation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong had built up quite a library. He had even acquired maps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And more than maps. There was a box he kept locked, in the room with the full-length mirror...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not now. Later on...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork! Even the name sounded rich.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All he needed was a year. The dreadful scourge of the rebellion would allow him to wield the kind of powers that even the maddest Emperor had not dreamed of. And then it would be unthinkable not to build a vengeful fleet to wreak terror on the foreign devils. Thank you, Lord Fang. Your point is duly noted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As if it mattered who was Emperor! The Empire was possibly a bonus, to be acquired later, perhaps, in passing. Let him just have Ankh-Morpork, with its busy dwarfs and its grasp, above all, of machinery. Look at the Barking Dogs. Half the time they blew up. They were inaccurate. The principle was sound but the execution was terrible, especially when they blew up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had come as a revelation to Lord Hong when he looked at the problem the Ankh-Morpork way and realized that it might just possibly be better to give the job of Auspicious Dog-maker to some peasant with a fair idea about metal and explosive earths than to some clerk who'd got the highest marks in an examination to find the best poem about iron. In Ankh-Morpork people <em class="calibre8">did</em> things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Let him just walk down Broadway as owner, and eat the pies of the famous Mr Dibbler. Let him play one game of chess against Lord Vetinari. Of course, it would mean leaving the man one arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was shaking with excitement. Not later... now. His fingers reached for the secret key on its chain around his neck.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was barely a track. Rabbits would have walked right past it. And you'd have sworn there was a sheer, passless rock wall until you found the gap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once you <em class="calibre8">did</em> find it, it was hardly worth the bother. It led to a long gully with a few natural caves in it, and a bit of grass, and a spring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, as it turned out, Cohen's gang. Except that he called it a horde. They were sitting in the sun, complaining about how it wasn't as warm as it used to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm back then, lads,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Been away, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whut's he say?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said HE'S BACK.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Black what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen beamed at Rincewind. 'I brought 'em with me,' he said. 'Like I said, no future in going it alone these days.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' said Rincewind, after surveying the little scene, 'are any of these men under eighty years old?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stand up, Boy Willie,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dehydrated man only marginally less wrinkled than the others got to his feet. It was his feet that were particularly noticeable. He wore boots with extremely thick soles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So's me feet touch the ground,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't they... er... touch the ground in ordinary boots?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nope. Orthopaedic problem, see. Like... you know how a lot of people've got one leg shorter than the other? Funny thing, with me it's—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't tell me,' said Rincewind. 'Sometimes I get these amazing flashes... <em class="calibre8">Both</em> legs are shorter than the other, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazing. O' course, I can see you're a wizard,' said Boy Willie. 'You'd know about this sort of thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave the next member of the Horde a bright mad smile. It was almost certainly a human being, because wizened little monkeys didn't usually go around in a wheelchair while wearing a helmet with horns on it. It grimaced at Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mad Hamish,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whozee?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bet that wheelchair <em class="calibre8">terrifies</em> them,' said Rincewind. 'Especially the blades.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We had the devil of a job getting it over the wall,' Cohen conceded. 'But you'd be amazed at his turn of speed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And this is Truckle the Uncivil.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sod off, wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind beamed at Exhibit B. 'Those walking sticks... Fascinating! Very impressive the way you've got LOVE and HATE written on them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen smiled proprietorially.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Truckle used to be reckoned one of the biggest badasses in the world,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it's amazing what you can do with a herbal suppository.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Up yours, mister,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind blinked. 'Er. Can I have a word, Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew the ancient barbarian aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't want to seem to be making trouble here,' he said, 'but it doesn't strike you, does it, that these men are a bit, well, past their sell-by date? A little, not to put too fine a point on it, old?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whutzeesayin'?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He says IT'S COLD.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're you saying? There's nearly five hundred years of concentrated barbarian hero experience in 'em,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five hundred years' experience in a fighting unit is good,' said Rincewind. 'It's <em class="calibre8">good</em>. But it should be spread over more than one person. I mean, what are you expecting them to do? Fall over on people?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nothin' wrong with 'em,' said Cohen, indicating a frail man who was staring intently at a large block of teak. 'Look at ole Caleb the Ripper over there. See? Killed more'n four hundred men with his bare hands. Eighty-five now and but for the dust he's marvellous.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What the hell is he <em class="calibre8">doing</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, see, they're into bare-handed combat here. Very big thing, unarmed combat, on account of most people not being allowed weapons. So Caleb reckons he's on to a good thing. See that big lump of teak? It's amazin'. He just gives this bloodcurdlin' shout and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen, they're all <em class="calibre8">very old men</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're the cream!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen, they're the cheese. Why've you brought them all the way here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gonna help me steal something,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? A jewel or something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S something,' said Cohen, sulkily. ' 'S in Hung-hung.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? My word,' said Rincewind. 'And there's a lot of people in Hunghung, I expect?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'About half a million,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lots of guards, no doubt?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'About forty thousand, I heard. About three-quarters of a million if you count all the armies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Rincewind. 'So, with these half-dozen old men—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Silver Horde,' said Cohen, with a touch of pride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Pardon?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's their name. Got to have a name in the horde business. The Silver Horde.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned around. Several of the Horde had fallen asleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Silver Horde,' he said. 'Right. Matches the colour of their hair. Those that have <em class="calibre8">got</em> hair. So... with this... Silver Horde you're going to rush the city, kill all the guards and steal all the treasure?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded. 'Yeah... something like that. Of course, we won't have to kill <em class="calibre8">all</em> the guards...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'd take too long.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, and of course you'll want to leave something to do tomorrow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean they'll be busy, what with the revolution and everything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A revolution too? My word.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say it's a time of portents,' said Cohen. 'They—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm surprised they've got time to worry about the state of their camping equipment,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'd be well advised to stay along o' us,' said Ghenghiz Cohen. 'You'll be safer with us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I'm not sure about that,' said Rincewind, grinning horribly. 'I'm not sure about that at all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By myself, he thought, only <em class="calibre8">ordinary</em> horrible things can happen to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged, and then stared around the clearing until his gaze lighted on a slight figure who was sitting a little apart from the rest, reading a book.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at him,' he said, benevolently, like a man pointing out a dog doing a good trick. 'Always got his nose in a book.' He raised his voice. 'Teach? Come and show this wizard the way to Hunghung.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned back to Rincewind. 'Teach'll tell you anything you want to know, 'cos he knows everything. I'll leave you with him. I've got to go and have a talk with Old Vincent.' He waved a hand dis-missively. 'Not that there's anything wrong with him, at all,' he said defiantly. 'It's just that his memory's bad. We had a bit of trouble on the way over. I keep telling him, it's rape the <em class="calibre8">women</em> and set fire to the <em class="calibre8">houses</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rape?' said Rincewind. 'That's not very—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's eighty-seven,' said Cohen. 'Don't go and spoil an old man's dreams.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Teach turned out to be a tall, stick-like man with an amiably absent-minded expression and a fringe of white hair so that, when viewed from above, he would appear to be a daisy. He certainly did not appear to be a bloodthirsty brigand, even though he was wearing a chain-mail vest slightly too big for him and a huge scabbard strapped across his back, which contained no sword but held a variety of scrolls and brushes. His chain-mail shirt had a breast pocket with three different coloured pens in a leather pocket protector.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ronald Saveloy,' he said, shaking Rincewind's hand. 'The gentlemen do rather assume considerable knowledge on my part. Let me see... You want to go to Hunghung, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been thinking about this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I want to know the <em class="calibre8">way</em> to Hunghung,' he said guardedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Well. At this time of year I'd head towards the setting sun until I left the mountains and reached the alluvial plain where you'll see evidence of drumlins and some quite fine examples of obviously erratic boulders. It's about ten miles.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared at him. A brigand's directions were usually more on the lines of 'keep straight or past the burning city and turn right when you've passed all the citizens hanging up by their ears'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Those drumlins sound dangerous,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're just a type of post-glacial hill,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about these erratic boulders? They sound like the kind of thing that'd pounce on—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just boulders dropped a long way from home by a glacier,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Nothing to worry about. The landscape is not hostile.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind didn't believe him. He'd had the ground hit him very hard many times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'However,' said Mr Saveloy, 'Hunghung is a little dangerous at the moment.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, really?' said Rincewind wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> a siege. Everyone's waiting for the Emperor to die. These are what they call here' - he smiled - 'interesting times.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">hate</em> interesting times.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other Horders had wandered off, fallen asleep again or were complaining to one another about their feet. The voice of Cohen could be heard somewhere in the distance: 'Look, <em class="calibre8">this</em> is a match, and <em class="calibre8">this</em> is—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know, you sound a very educated man for a barbarian,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear me, I didn't start out a barbarian. I used to be a school teacher. That's why they call me Teach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What did you teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Geography. And I was very interested in Auriental studies. But I decided to give it up and make a living by the sword.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'After being a teacher all your life?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It did mean a change of perspective, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... well... surely . .. the privation, the terrible hazards, the daily risk of death...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy brightened up. 'Oh, you've <em class="calibre8">been</em> a teacher, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around when someone shouted. He turned, to see two of the Horde arguing nose to nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm trying to teach them chess,' he said. 'It's vital to the understanding of the Auriental mind. But I am afraid they have no concept of taking turns at moving, and their idea of an opening gambit is for the King and all the pawns to rush up the board together and set fire to the opposing rooks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind leaned closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, I mean... <em class="calibre8">Ghenghiz</em> Cohen?' he said. 'Has he gone off his head? I mean... just killing half a dozen geriatric priests and nicking some paste gems, <em class="calibre8">yes</em>. Attacking forty thousand guards all by himself is certain death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, he won't be by himself,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind blinked. There was something about Cohen. People caught optimism off him as though it was the common cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Of course. Sorry. I'd forgotten that. Seven against forty thousand? I shouldn't think you'll have any problems. I'll just be going. Fairly quickly, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We have a plan. It's a sort of—' Mr Saveloy hesitated. His eyes unfocused slightly. 'You know? Thing. Bees do it. Wasps, too. Also some jellyfish, I believe... Had the word only a moment ago... er. It's going to be the biggest one ever, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave him another blank stare. 'I'm sure I saw a spare horse,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let me give you this,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Then perhaps you'll understand. It's what it's all about, really...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed Rincewind a small bundle of papers fastened together by a loop of string through one corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind, shoving it hastily into his pocket, noticed only the title on the first page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT I DID ON MY HOLIDAYS</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The choices seemed very clear to Rincewind. There was the city of Hunghung, under siege, apparently throbbing with revolution and danger, and there was everywhere else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Therefore it was important to know where Hunghung was so that he didn't blunder into it by accident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paid a lot of attention to Mr Saveloy's instructions, and then rode the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could get a ship somewhere. Of course, the wizards would be surprised to see him back, but he could always say there'd been no-one in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hills gave way to scrubland which in turn led down to an apparently endless damp plain which contained, in the misty distance, a river so winding that half the time it must have been flowing backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The land was a chequerboard of cultivation. Rincewind liked the countryside in theory, providing it wasn't rising up to meet him and was for preference happening on the far side of a city wall, but this was hardly countryside. It was more like one big, hedge-less farm. Occasional huge rocks, looking dangerously erratic, rose out of the fields.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes he'd see people hard at work in the distance. As far as he could tell, their chief activity was moving mud around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally he'd see a man standing ankle deep in a flooded field holding a water buffalo on the end of a length of string. The buffalo grazed and occasionally moved its bowels. The man held the string. It seemed to be his entire goal and occupation in life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a few other people on the road. Usually they were pushing wheelbarrows loaded with water buffalo dung or, possibly, mud. They didn't pay any attention to Rincewind. In fact they made a <em class="calibre8">point</em> of not paying attention; they scurried past staring intently at the scenes of mud dynamics or bovine bowel movement happening in the fields.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind would be the first to admit that he was a slow thinker. But he'd been around long enough to spot the signs. These people weren't paying him any attention because they didn't <em class="calibre8">see</em> people on horseback.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were probably descended from people who learned that if you look too hard at anyone on horseback you receive a sharp stinging sensation such as might be obtained by a stick around the ear. Not looking up at people on horseback had become hereditary. People who stared at people on horseback in what was considered to be a funny way never survived long enough to breed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He decided to try an experiment. The next wheelbarrow that trundled past was carrying not mud but people, about half a dozen of them, on seats either side of the huge central wheel. The method of propulsion was secondarily by a small sail erected to catch the wind but primarily by that pre-eminent source of motive power in a peasant community, someone's great-grandfather, or at least someone who looked like someone's great-grandfather.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen had said, 'There's men here who can push a wheelbarrow for thirty miles on a bowl of millet with a bit of scum in it. What does that tell you? It tells <em class="calibre8">me</em> someone's porking all the beef.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind decided to explore the social dynamics and also try out the language. It had been years since he'd last used it, but he had to admit that Ridcully had been right. He did have a gift for languages Agatean was a language of few basic syllables. It was really all in the tone, inflection and context. Otherwise, the word for military leader was also the word for long-tailed marmot, male sexual organ and ancient chicken coop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey there, you!' he shouted. 'Er... to bend bamboo? An expression of disapproval? Er... I mean... Stop!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The barrow slewed to a halt. No-one looked at him They looked past him, or around him, or towards his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually the wheelbarrow-pusher, in the manner of a man who knows he's in for it no matter what he does, mumbled, 'Your honour commands?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind felt very sorry, later, for what he said next.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, 'Just give me all your food and... unwilling dogs, will you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched him impassively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Damn. I mean... arranged beetles?... variety of waterfall?... Oh, yes... <em class="calibre8">money</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a general fumbling and shifting among the passengers. Then the wheelbarrow-pusher sidled towards Rincewind, head down, and held up his hat. It contained some rice, some dried fish, a highly dangerous-looking egg. And about a pound of gold, in big round coins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared at the gold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gold was as common as copper on the Counterweight Continent. That was one of the few things everyone knew about the place. There was no <em class="calibre8">point</em> in Cohen trying any kind of big robbery. There was a limit to what anyone could carry. He might as well rob one peasant village and live like a king for the rest of his life. It wouldn't be as if he'd need that much...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The 'later' suddenly caught up with him, and he did indeed feel quite ashamed. These people had hardly anything, apart from loads of gold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Thanks. Thank you. Yes. Just checking. Yes. You can all have it back now. I'll... er... keep... the elderly grandmother... to run sideways... oh, damn... <em class="calibre8">fish</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had always been on the bottom of the social heap. It didn't matter what size heap it was. The top got higher or lower, but the bottom was always in the same place. But at least it was an Ankh-Morpork heap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one bowed to anyone in Ankh-Morpork. And anyone who tried what he'd just tried in Ankh-Morpork would, by now, be scrabbling in the gutter for his teeth and whimpering about the pain in his groin and his horse would already have been repainted twice and sold to a man who'd be swearing he'd owned it for years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt oddly proud of the fact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something strange welled up from the sludgy depths of his soul. It was, to his amazement, a generous impulse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slid off the horse and held out the reins. A horse was useful, but he was used to doing without one. Besides, over a short distance a man could run faster than a horse, and this was a fact very dear to Rince-wind's heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here,' he said. 'You can have it. For the fish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wheelbarrow-pusher screamed, grabbed the handles of his conveyance and hurtled desperately away. Several people were thrown off, took one almost-look at Rincewind, also screamed, and ran after him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Worse than whips, Cohen had said. They've got something here worse than whips. They don't <em class="calibre8">need</em> whips any more. Rincewind hoped he'd never find out what it was, if it had done this to people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rode on through an endless panorama of fields There weren't even any patches of roadside scrub, or taverns. Away among the fields were shapes that might be small towns or villages, but no apparent paths to them, possibly because paths used up valuable agricultural mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally he sat down on a rock that presumably not even the peasants' most concerted efforts had been able to move, and reached into his pocket for his shameful dried fish lunch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His hand touched the bundle of papers Mr Saveloy had given him. He pulled them out, and got crumbs on them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is what it's all about, the barbarian teacher had said. He hadn't explained what 'it' was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT I DID ON MY HOLIDAYS
    , said the title. It was in bad handwriting or, rather, bad painting - the Agateans wrote with paintbrushes, assembling little word pictures out of handy components. One picture wasn't just worth a thousand words, it <em class="calibre8">was</em> a thousand words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind wasn't much good at reading the language. There were very few Agatean books even in the Unseen University Library. And this one looked as though whoever had written it had been trying to make sense of something unfamiliar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned over a couple of pages. It was a story about a Great City, containing magnificent things - 'beer strong like an ox', it said, and 'pies containing many many parts of pig'. Everyone in the city seemed to be wise, kind, strong or all three, especially some character called the Great Wizard who seemed to feature largely in the text.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there were mystifying little comments, as in, 'I saw a man tread upon the toes of a City Guard who said to him "Your wife is a big hippo!" to which the man responded "Place it where the sun does not shed daylight, enormous person", upon which the Guard [this bit was in red ink and the handwriting was shaky, as if the writer was quite excited] <em class="calibre8">did not remove the man's head according to ancient custom</em>.' The statement was followed by a pictogram of a dog passing water, which was for some obscure reason the Agatean equivalent of an exclamation mark. There were five of these.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind flicked through the pages. They were filled with the same dull stuff, sentences stating the blindingly obvious but often followed by several incontinent dogs. Such as: 'The innkeeper said the City had demanded tax but he did not intend to pay, and when I asked if he was not afraid he vouchsafed: "[Complicated pictogram] them all except one and he can [complicated pictogram] himself" [urinating dog, urinating dog]. He went on to say, "The [pictogram indicating Supreme Ruler] is a [another pictogram which, after some thought and holding up the picture at various angles, Rincewind decided meant 'a horse's bottom'] and you can tell him I said so", <em class="calibre8">at which point</em> a Guard in the tavern <em class="calibre8">did not disembowel him</em> [urinating dog, urinating dog] but said, "Tell him from me also" [urinating dog, urinating dog, urinating dog, urinating dog, urinating dog].'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was so odd about that? People talked like that in Ankh-Morpork all the time, or at least expressed those sentiments. Apart from the dog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mind you, a country that'd wipe out a whole city to teach the other cities a lesson was a mad place. Perhaps this was a book of jokes and he just hadn't seen the point. Perhaps comedians here got big laughs with lines like: 'I say, I say, I say, I met a man on the way to the theatre and <em class="calibre8">he didn't chop my legs off</em>, urinating dog, urinating dog—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had been aware of the jingle of harness on the road, but hadn't paid it any attention. He hadn't even looked up at the sound of someone approaching. By the time he did think of looking up it was too late, because someone had their boot on his neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, urinating dog,' he said, before passing out.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a puff of air and the Luggage appeared, dropping heavily into a snowdrift.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a meat cleaver sticking into its lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It remained motionless for some time and then, its legs moving in a complicated little dance, it turned around 360 degrees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage did not think. It had nothing to think with. Whatever processes went on inside it probably had more to do with the way a tree reacts to sun and rain and sudden storms, but speeded up very fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while it seemed to get its bearings and ambled off across the melting snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage did not feel, either. It had nothing to feel with. But it reacted, in the same way that a tree reacts to the changing of the seasons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its pace quickened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was close to home.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had to concede that the shouting man was right. Not, that is, about Rincewind's father being the diseased liver of a type of mountain panda and his mother being a bucket of turtle slime; Rincewind had no personal experience of either parent but felt that they were probably at least vaguely humanoid, if only briefly. But on the subject of appearing to own a stolen horse he had Rincewind bang to rights and, also, a foot on his neck. A foot on the neck is nine points of the law.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt hands rummaging in his pockets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another person - Rincewind was not able to see much beyond a few inches of alluvial soil, but from context it appeared to be an unsympathetic person - joined in the shouting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind was hauled upright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards were pretty much like guards as Rincewind had experienced them everywhere. They had exactly the amount of intellect required to hit people and drag them off to the scorpion pit. They were league champions at shouting at people a few inches from their face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The effect was made surreal by the fact that the guards themselves had no faces, or at least no faces they could call their own. Their ornate, black-enamelled helmets and huge moustachioed visages painted on them, leaving only the owner's mouth uncovered so that he could, for example, call Rincewind's grandfather a box of inferior goldfish droppings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">What I Did On My Holidays</em> was waved in front of his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bag of rotted fish!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know what it means,' said Rincewind. 'Someone just gave it to—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Feet of extreme rotted milk!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could you perhaps not shout quite so loud? I think my eardrum has just exploded.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard subsided, possibly only because he had run out of breath. Rincewind had a moment to look at the scenery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two carts on the road. One of them seemed to be a cage on wheels; he made out faces watching him in terror. The other was an ornate palanquin carried by eight peasants; rich curtains covered the sides but he could see where they had been twitched aside so that someone within could look at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards were aware of this. It seemed to make them awkward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If I could just expl—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence, mouth of—' The guard hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've used turtle, goldfish and what you probably meant to be cheese,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mouth of chicken gizzards!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A long thin hand emerged from the curtains and beckoned, just once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind was hustled forward. The hand had the longest fingernails he'd ever seen on something that didn't purr.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Kowtow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Kowtow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Swords were produced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know what you mean!' Rincewind wailed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Kowtow, please,' whispered a voice by his ear. It was not a particularly friendly voice but compared to all the other voices it was positively affectionate. It sounded as though it belonged to quite a young man. And it was speaking very good Morporkian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">How</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't know <em class="calibre8">that</em>? Kneel down, press your forehead on the ground. That's if you want to be able to wear a hat again.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated. He was a free-born Morporkian, and on the list of things a citizen didn't do was bow down to any, not to put too fine a point on it, <em class="calibre8">foreigner</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the other hand, right at the <em class="calibre8">top</em> of the list of things a citizen didn't do was get their head chopped off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's better. That's good. How did you know you ought to tremble?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I thought up that bit myself.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hand beckoned with a finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A guard slapped Rincewind in the face with the mud-encrusted <em class="calibre8">What I Did</em>... Rincewind clutched it guiltily as the guard scurried towards his master's digit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Voice?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What happens if I claim immunity because I'm a foreigner?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a special thing they do with a wire-mesh waistcoat and a cheesegrater.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And there are torturers in Hunghung who can keep a man alive for years.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose you're not talking about healthy early morning runs and a high-fibre diet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. So keep quiet and with any luck you'll be sent to be a slave in the palace.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Luck is my middle name,' said Rincewind, indistinctly. 'Mind you, my first name is Bad.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Remember to gibber and grovel.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll do my very best.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The white hand emerged bearing a scrap of paper. The guard took it, turned towards Rincewind and cleared his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Harken to the wisdom and justice of District Commissioner Kee, ball of swamp emanations! Not him, I mean you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cleared his throat again and peered closer at the paper in the manner of one who learned to read by saying the name of each letter very carefully to himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "The white pony runs through the... the..." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard turned and held a whispered conversation with the curtains, and turned back again. '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... chrysanthemum... mumum blossoms, 
The cold wind stirs the 
Apricot trees. Send him to 
The palace to slave 
Until all appendages drop 
Off." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several of the other guards applauded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look up and clap,' said the Voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid my appendages will drop off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a <em class="calibre8">big</em> cheesegrater.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Encore! Wow! Superb! That bit about the chrys-anthemumums? Wonderful!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. Listen. You're from Bes Pelargic. You've got the right accent, damned if I know why. It's a seaport and people there are a little strange. You were robbed by bandits and escaped on one of their horses. That's why you haven't got your papers. You need pieces of paper for everything here, including being anybody. And pretend you don't know me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">don't</em> know you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. Long Live The Changing Things To A More Equitable State While Retaining Due Respect For The Traditions Of Our Forebears And Of Course Not Harming The August Personage Of The Emperor Endeavour!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. Yes. What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A guard kicked Rincewind in the region of the kidneys. This suggested, in the universal language of the boot, that he should get up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He managed to get up on one knee, and saw the Luggage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't his, and there were three of them.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage trotted to the crest of a low hill and stopped so fast that it left a lot of little grooves in the dirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In addition to not having any equipment with which to think or feel, the Luggage also had no means of seeing. The manner in which it perceived events was a complete mystery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It perceived the other Luggages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three of them stood patiently in a line behind the palanquin. They were big. They were black.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage's legs disappeared inside its body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while it very cautiously opened its lid, just a fraction.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Of the three things that most people know about the horse, the third is that, over a short distance, it can't run as fast as a man. As Rincewind had learned to his advantage, it has more legs to sort out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are additonal advantages if a) the people on horseback aren't expecting you to run and b) you happen to be, very conveniently, in an athletic starting position.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind rose like a boomerang curry from a sensitive stomach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a lot of shouting but the comforting thing, the important thing, was that it was all behind him. It would soon try to catch him up but that was a problem for the future. He could also consider where he was running to as well, but an experienced coward never bothered with the <em class="calibre8">to</em> when the <em class="calibre8">from</em> held such fascination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A less practised runner would have risked a glance behind, but Rincewind instinctively knew all about wind drag and the tendency of inconvenient rocks to position themselves under the unwary foot. Besides, why look behind? He was already running as fast as he could. Nothing he could see would make him run any faster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a large shapeless village ahead, a construction apparently of mud and dung. In the fields in front of it a dozen peasants looked up from their toil at the accelerating wizard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was Rincewind's imagination, but as he passed them he could have sworn that he heard the cry:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Necessarily Extended Duration To The Red Army! Regrettable Decease Without Undue Suffering To The Forces of Oppression!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind dived through the huts as the soldiers charged at the peasants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen had been right. There seemed to be a revolution. But the Empire had been in unchanged existence for thousands of years, courtesy and a respect for protocol were part of its very fabric, and by the sound of it the revolutionaries had yet to master the art of impolite slogans.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind preferred running to hiding. Hiding was all very well, but if you were found then you were stuck. But the village was the only cover for miles around, and some of the soldiers had horses. A man might be faster than a horse over a short distance, but over this panorama of flat, open fields a horse had a running man bang to rights.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So he ducked into a building at random and pushed aside the first door he came to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had, pasted on it, the words: Examination. Silence!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Forty expectant and slightly worried faces looked up at him from their writing stools. They weren't children, but full-grown adults.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a lectern at the end of the room and, on it, a pile of papers sealed with string and wax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind felt the atmosphere was familiar. He'd breathed it before, even if it had been a world away. It was full of those cold sweaty odours created by the sudden realization that it was probably too late to do that revision you'd kept on putting off. Rincewind had faced many horrors in his time, but none held quite the same place in the lexicon of dread as those few seconds after someone said, 'Turn over your papers <em class="calibre8">now</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The candidates were watching him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was shouting somewhere outside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hurried up to the lectern, tore at the string and distributed the papers as fast as he could. Then he dived back to the safety of the lectern, removed his hat, and was bent low when the door opened slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Go away!' he screamed. 'Examination in progress!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The unseen figure behind the door murmured something to someone else. The door was closed again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The candidates were still staring at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Very well. Turn over your papers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a rustle, a few moments of that dreadful silence, and then much activity with brushes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Competitive examinations. Oh, yes. That was another thing people knew about the Empire. They were the only way to get any kind of public post and the security that brought. People had said that this must be a very good system, because it opened up opportunities for people of merit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind picked up a spare paper and read it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was headed: Examination for the post of Assistant Night-Soil Operative for the District of W'ung.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He read question one. It required candidates to write a sixteen-line poem on evening mist over the reed beds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Question two seemed to be about the use of metaphor in some book Rincewind had never heard of.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was a question about music...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned the paper over a couple of times. There didn't seem to be any mention, anywhere, of words like 'compost' or 'bucket' or 'wheelbarrow'. But presumably all this produced a better class of person than the Ankh-Morpork system, which asked just one question: 'Got your own shovel, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shouting outside seemed to have died away; Rincewind risked poking his head out of the door. There was a commotion near the road but it no longer seemed Rincewind-orientated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The students got on with their examination. One of the more enterprising, however, rolled up his trouser leg and copied down a poem about mist he'd composed, at great effort, some time previously. After a while you got to know what kind of questions the examiners asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind trotted onwards, trying to keep to ditches wherever these weren't knee deep in sucking mud. It wasn't a landscape built for concealment. The Agateans grew crops on any piece of ground the seeds wouldn't roll off. Apart from the occasional rocky outcrop there was a distinct lack of places in which to lurk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one paid him much attention once he'd left the village far behind. The occasional water buffalo operative would turn to watch him until he was out of sight, but displayed no special curiosity; it was merely that Rincewind was marginally more interesting than watching a water buffalo defecate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept the road just in sight and, by evening, reached a crossroads.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an inn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind hadn't eaten since the leopard. The inn meant food, but food meant money. He was hungry, and he had no money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He chided himself for this kind of negative thinking. That was not the right approach. What he should do was go in and order a large, nourishing meal. Then instead of being hungry with no money he'd be well fed with no money, a net gain on his current position. Of course, the world was likely to raise some objections, but in Rincewind's experience there were few problems that couldn't be solved with a scream and a good ten yards' start. And, of course, he would just have had a strengthening meal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, he liked Hunghungese food. A few refugees had opened restaurants in Ankh-Morpork and Rincewind considered himself something of an expert on the dishes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The one huge room was thick with smoke and, insofar as this could be determined through the swirls and coils, quite busy. A couple of old men were sitting in front of a complicated pile of ivory tiles, playing <em class="calibre8">Shibo Yangcong-san</em>. He wasn't sure what they were smoking but, by the looks on their faces, they were happy they'd chosen it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind made his way to the fireplace, where a skinny man was tending a cauldron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave him a cheery smile. 'Good morning! Can I partake of your famous delicacy "Meal A for two People with extra Prawn Cracker"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never heard of it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um. Then... could I see a painful ear... a croak of a frog... a menu?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's a menu, friend?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded. He knew what it meant when a stranger called you 'friend' like that. No-one who called someone else 'friend' was feeling very kindly disposed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is there to eat, I meant.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Noodles, boiled cabbage and pork whiskers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that <em class="calibre8">all</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pork whiskers don't grow on trees, san.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been seeing water buffalo all day,' Rincewind said. 'Don't you people ever eat beef?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ladle splashed into the cauldron. Somewhere behind him a <em class="calibre8">shibo</em> tile dropped on to the floor. The back of Rincewind's head prickled under the stares.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We don't serve rebels in this place,' said the landlord loudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Probably too meaty, Rincewind thought. But it seemed to him that the words had been addressed to the world in general rather than to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Glad to hear it,' he said, 'because—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed,' said the landlord, a little louder. 'No rebels welcome here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's fine by me, because—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If I knew of any rebels I would be certain to alert the authorities,' the landlord bellowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not a rebel, I'm just hungry,' said Rincewind. 'I'd, er, like a bowlful, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bowl was filled. Rainbow patterns shimmered on its oily surface.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That'll be half a <em class="calibre8">rhinu</em>,' said the landlord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean you want me to pay before I eat it?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You might not want to afterwards, friend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A <em class="calibre8">rhinu</em> was more gold than Rincewind had ever owned. He patted his pockets theatrically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In fact, it seems that—' he began. There was a small thump beside him. <em class="calibre8">What I Did On My Holidays</em> had fallen on to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, thank you, that will do nicely,' said the landlord to the room at large. He pushed the bowl into Rincewind's hand and, in one movement, scooped up the booklet and crammed it back into the wizard's pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Go and sit down in the corner!' he hissed. 'And you'll be told what to do!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I'm sure I <em class="calibre8">know</em> what to do. Dip spoon in bowl, raise spoon to mouth—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sit down!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind found the darkest corner and sat down. People were still watching him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To avoid the group gaze he pulled out <em class="calibre8">What I Did</em> and opened it at random, in an effort to find out why it had a magical effect on the landlord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... sold me a bun containing what was called a [complicated pictogram] made <em class="calibre8">entirely of the inside of pigs</em> [urinating dog]' he read. 'And such as these could be bought for small coin at any time, and so replete were the citizens that hardly any bought these [com-plicated pictogram] from the stall of [complicated pictogram, but it seemed to involve a razor]-san.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sausages filled with pig parts, thought Rincewind. Well, perhaps they <em class="calibre8">might</em> be amazing if, up until then, a bowl of dishwater with something congealing on the top of it had been your idea of a hearty meal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hah! Mister What-I-Did-On-My-Holidays should try coming to Ankh-Morpork next time, and see how much he liked one of old... Dibbler's sausages...ull of genuine... pig product...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spoon splashed into the bowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned the pages hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... peaceful streets, along which I walked, were quite free of crime and brigandage...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course they were, you four-eyed little git!' shouted Rincewind. 'That was because it was all happening to me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... a city where all men are free...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Free? <em class="calibre8">Free</em>? Well, yes, free to starve, get robbed by the Thieves' Guild... ' said Rincewind to the book.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He fumbled through to another page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... my companion was the Great Wizard [complicated pictogram, but now that Rincewind studied it he realized with a plummeting heart it had a few lines that looked like the Agatean for 'wind'], the most prominent and powerful wizard in the entire country...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never said that! I—' Rincewind stopped. Memory treacherously dredged up a few phrases, such as <em class="calibre8">Oh, the Archchancellor listens to everything I say</em> and <em class="calibre8">That place would just fall down without me around</em>. But that was just the sort of thing you said after a few beers, surely no-one would be so gullible as to write...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A picture focused itself in Rincewind's memory It was of a happy, smiling little man with huge spectacles and a trusting, innocent approach to life which brought terror and destruction everywhere he wandered. Twoflower had been quite unable to believe that the world was a bad place and that was largely because, to him, it wasn't. It saved it all up for Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's life had been quite uneventful before he'd met Twoflower. Since then, as far as he could remember, it had contained events in huge amounts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the little man had gone back home, hadn't he? To Bes Pelargic - the Empire's only proper seaport.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Surely no-one would be so gullible as to write this sort of thing?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Surely no-one apart from one person would be so gullible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind was not politically minded but there were some things he could work out not because they were to do with politics but because they had a lot to do with human nature. Nasty images moved into place like bad scenery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Empire had a wall around it. If you lived in the Empire then you learned how to make soup out of pig squeals and swallow spit because that's how it was done, and you were bullied by soldiers all the time because that was how the world worked. But if someone wrote a cheerful little book about...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... what I did on my holidays...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... in a place where the world worked quite differently...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... then however fossilized the society there would always be <em class="calibre8">some</em> people who asked themselves danger-ous questions like 'Where's the pork?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared glumly at the wall. Peasants of the Empire, Rebel! You have nothing to lose but your heads and hands and feet and there's this thing they do with a wire waistcoat and a cheesegrater...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned the book over. There was no author's name. There was simply a little message: Increased Luck! Make Copies! Extended Duration And Happiness To The Endeavour!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork had had the occasional rebellion, too, over the years. But no-one went around <em class="calibre8">organizing</em> things. They just grabbed themselves a weapon and took to the streets. No-one bothered with a formal battlecry, relying instead on the well-tried 'There 'e goes! Get 'im! Got 'im? Now <em class="calibre8">kick</em> 'im inna fork!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The point was... whatever <em class="calibre8">caused</em> that sort of thing wasn't usually the <em class="calibre8">reason</em> for it. When Mad Lord Snapcase had been hung up by his figgin it hadn't <em class="calibre8">really</em> been because he'd made poor old Spooner Boggis eat his own nose, it had been because years of inventive nastiness had piled on one another until the grievances reached—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a terrible scream from the far side of the room. Rincewind was half out of his seat before he noticed the little stage, and the actors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A trio of musicians had squatted down on the floor. The inn's customers turned to watch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, in a way, quite enjoyable. Rincewind didn't quite follow the plot, but it went something like: man gets girl, man loses girl to other man, man cuts couple in half, man falls on own sword, all come up front for a bow to what might be the Agatean equivalent of 'Happy Days Are Here Again'. It was a little hard to make out the fine detail because the actors shouted 'Hoorrrrrraa!' a lot and spent much of their time talking to the audience and their masks all looked the same to Rincewind. The musicians were in a world or their own or, by the sound of it, three different worlds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fortune cookie?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Huh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind re-emerged from the thickets of thespi-anism to see the landlord beside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dish of vaguely bivalvular biscuits was thrust under his nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fortune cookie?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind reached out. Just as his fingers were about to close on one, the plate was jerked sideways an inch or two, bringing another under his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, well. He took it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing was - his thoughts resumed, as the play screamed on - at least in Ankh-Morpork you <em class="calibre8">could</em> lay your hands on real weapons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Poor devils. It took more than well-turned slogans and a lot of enthusiasm to run a good rebellion. You needed well-trained fighters and, above all, a good leader. He hoped they found one when he was well away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He unrolled the fortune and read it idly, oblivious to the landlord walking around behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead of the usual 'You have just enjoyed an inferior meal' it was quite a complicated pictogram.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's fingers traced the brush strokes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Many... many... apologies..." What kind—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The musician with the cymbals clashed them together sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wooden cosh bounced off Rincewind's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old men playing <em class="calibre8">shibo</em> nodded happily to themselves and turned back to their game.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a fine morning. The hideout echoed to the sounds of the Silver Horde getting up, groaning, adjusting various home-made surgical supports, com-plaining that they couldn't find their spectacles, and mistakenly gumming one another's dentures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen sat with his feet in a bath of warm water, enjoying the sunshine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The former geography teacher concentrated on a cap he was making.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Ghenghiz?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's Mad Hamish going on about?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He says the bread's stale and he can't find his teeth.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell him if things go right for us he can have a dozen young women just to chew his bread for him,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That is not very hygienic, Ghenghiz,' said Mr Saveloy, without bothering to look up. 'Remember, I explained about hygiene.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen didn't bother to answer. He was thinking: six old men. And you can't really count Teach, he's a thinker, not a fighter...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Self-doubt was not something regularly entertained within the Cohen cranium. When you're trying to carry a struggling temple maiden and a sack of looted temple goods in one hand and fight off half a dozen angry priests with the other there is little time for reflection. Natural selection saw to it that professional heroes who at a crucial moment tended to ask themselves questions like 'What is my purpose in life?' very quickly lacked both.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But: six old men... and the Empire had almost a million men under arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When you looked at the odds in the cold light of dawn, or even this rather pleasant warm light of dawn, they made you stop and do the arithmetic of death. If the Plan went wrong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen bit his lip thoughtfully. If the Plan went wrong, it'd take <em class="calibre8">weeks</em> to kill all of them. Maybe he should have let old Thog the Butcher come along too, even though he had to stop fighting every ten minutes to go to the lavatory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, well. He was committed now, so he might as well make the best of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen's father had taken him to a mountain top, when he was no more than a lad, and explained to him the hero's creed and told him that there was no greater joy than to die in battle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen had seen the flaw in this straight away, and a lifetime's experience had reinforced his belief that in fact a greater joy was to kill the <em class="calibre8">other</em> bugger in battle and end up sitting on a heap of gold higher than your horse. It was an observation that had served him well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood up and stretched in the sunshine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a lovely morning, lads,' he said. 'I feel like a million dollars. Don't you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a murmur of reluctant agreement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Cohen. 'Let's go and get some.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Great Wall completely surrounds the Agatean Empire. The word is <em class="calibre8">completely</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is usually about twenty feet high and sheer on its inner side. It is built along beaches and across howling deserts and even on the lip of sheer cliffs where the possibility of attack from outside is remote. On subject islands like Bhangbhangduc and Tingling there are similar walls, all metaphorically the same wall, and tnat seems strange to those of an unthinking military disposition who do not realize what its function really is.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is more than just a wall, it is a marker. On one side is the Empire, which in the Agatean language is a word identical with 'universe'. On the other side is - nothing. After all, the universe is everything there is.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, there may <em class="calibre8">appear</em> to be things, like sea, islands, other continents and so on. They may even appear solid, it may be possible to conquer them, walk on them... but they are not <em class="calibre8">ultimately</em> real. The Agatean word for foreigner is the same as the word for ghost, and only one brush stroke away from the word for victim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The walls are sheer in order to discourage those boring people who persist in believing that there might be anything interesting on the other side. Amaz-ingly enough there are people who simply won't take the hint, even after thousands of years. The ones near the coast build rafts and head out across lonely seas to lands that are a fable. The ones inland resort to man-carrying kites and chairs propelled by fireworks. Many of them die in the attempt, of course. Most of the others are soon caught, and made to live in interesting times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But some did make it to the great melting pot called Ankh-Morpork. They arrived with no money - sailors charged what the market would bear, which was everything - but they had a mad gleam in their eye and they opened shops and restaurants and worked twenty-four hours a day. People called this the Ankh-Morpork Dream (of making piles of cash in a place where your death was unlikely to be a matter of public policy). And it was dreamed all the stronger by people who didn't sleep.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sometimes thought that his life was punctuated by awakenings. They were not always rude ones. Sometimes they were merely impolite. A very few - one or two, perhaps - had been quite nice, especially on the island. The sun had come up in its humdrum fashion, the waves had washed the beach in quite a boring way, and on several occasions he'd managed to erupt from unconsciousness without his habitual small scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This one wasn't just rude. It was downright insolent. He was being bumped about and someone had tied his hands together. It was dark, a fact occasioned by the sack over his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind did some calculation, and reached a conclusion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is the seventeenth worst day of my life so far,' he thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being knocked unconscious in pubs was quite commonplace. If it happened in Ankh-Morpork then you'd likely as not wake up lying on the Ankh with all your money gone or, if a ship was due out on a long and unpopular voyage, chained up in some scupper somewhere with no option for the next two years but to plough the ocean wave. But generally the knocker wanted to keep you alive. The Thieves' Guild were punctilious about that. As they said: 'Hit a man too hard and you can only rob him once; hit him just hard enough and you can rob him every week.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If he was in what felt like a cart then someone had some purpose in keeping him alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wished he hadn't thought of that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone pulled the sack off. A terrifying visage stared down at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "I would like to eat your foot!" ' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't worry. I am a friend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mask was lifted away. There was a young woman behind it - round faced, snub nosed and quite different from any other citizen Rincewind had met hitherto. That was, he realized, because she was looking straight at him. Her clothes, if not her face, had last been seen on the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't cry out,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why? What are you going to do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We would have welcomed you properly but there was no time.' She sat down among the bundles in the back of the swaying cart and regarded him critically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Four Big Sandal said you arrived on a dragon and slaughtered a regiment of soldiers,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I did?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And then you worked magic on a venerable old man and he became a great fighter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He did?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you gave him whole meat, even though Four Big Sandal is only of the <em class="calibre8">pung</em> class.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I did?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you have your hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, got my hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And yet,' said the girl, 'you don't <em class="calibre8">look</em> like a Great Wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Well, the fact is—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl looked as fragile as a flower. But she had just pulled out, from somewhere in the folds of her costume, a small but perfectly serviceable knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had picked up an instinct for this sort or thing. This was probably not the time to deny Great Wizardry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The fact is...' he repeated, 'that....ow do I know I can trust you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl looked indignant. 'Do you not have amazing wizardly powers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Yes! Certainly! But—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Say something in wizard language!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. <em class="calibre8">Stercus, stercus, stercus, moriturus sum</em>,' said Rincewind, his eye on the knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "O excrement, I am about to die?" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's... er... a special mantra I say to raise the magical fluxes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl subsided a little.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it takes it out of you, wizarding,' said Rincewind. 'Flying on dragons, magically turning old mer into warriors... I can only do so much of that sort of thing before it's time for a rest. Right now I'm very weak on account of the <em class="calibre8">tremendous</em> amounts of magic I've just used, you see.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at him with doubt still in her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All the peasants believe in the imminent arrival of the Great Wizard,' she said. 'But, in the words of the great philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle, "When many expect a mighty stallion they will find hooves on an ant." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave him another calculating look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When you were on the road,' she said, 'you grovelled in front of District Commissioner Kee. You could have blasted him with terrible fire.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Biding my time, spying out the land, not wanting to break my cover,' Rincewind gabbled. 'Er. No good revealing myself straight away, is there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You are maintaining a disguise?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is a very good one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you, because—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only a great wizard would dare to look like such a pathetic piece of humanity.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you. Er... how <em class="calibre8">did</em> you know I was on the road?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They would have killed you there and then if I had not told you what to do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were the <em class="calibre8">guard</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We had to catch up with you quickly. It was sheer luck you were seen by Four Big Sandal.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ignored the question. 'They are only provincial soldiers. I would not have got away with it in Hung-hung. But I can play many roles.' She put away the knife, but Rincewind had a feeling that he hadn't talked her into believing him, only into not killing him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He groped for a straw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've got a magic box on legs,' he said, with a touch of pride. 'It follows me around. It seems to have got itself mislaid right now, but it's quite an amazing thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl gave him a wooden look. Then she reached down with a delicate hand and hauled him upright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it,' she said, 'something like this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She twitched aside the curtains at the rear of the cart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two boxes were trundling along in the dust. They were more battered and cheaper looking than the Luggage, but recognizably the same general species, if you could apply the word to travel accessories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She let go. Rincewind's head hit the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen to me,' she said. 'A lot of bad things are happening. I don't believe in great wizards, but other people do, and sometimes people need something to believe in. And if these other people die because we've got a wizard who is not so very great, then he will be a very unlucky wizard indeed. You may be the Great Wizard. If you are not, then I suggest you study very hard to be great. Do I make myself clear?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been faced with death on numerous occasions. Often there was armour and swords involved. This occasion just involved a pretty girl and a knife, but somehow managed to be among the worst. She sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We are a travelling theatre,' she said. 'It is convenient. Noh actors are allowed to move around.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aren't they?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do not understand. We <em class="calibre8">are</em> Noh actors.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you weren't too bad.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great Wizard, "Noh" is a non-realist symbolic form of theatre employing archaic language, stylized gestures and an accompaniment of flutes and drums. Your pretence of stupidity is masterly. So much so that I could even believe that you are no actor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, what is your name?' Rincewind said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pretty Butterfly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glared at him and slipped away towards the front of the cart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It rumbled on. Rincewind lay with his head in a sack smelling of onions and methodically cursed things. He cursed women with knives, and history generally, and the entire faculty of Unseen University, and his absent Luggage, and the population of the Agatean Empire. But right now, at the top of the list, was whoever had designed this cart. By the feel of it, whoever had thought that rough, splintery wood was the right surface for a floor was also the person who thought 'triangular' was a nice shape for a wheel.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage lurked in a ditch, watched without much interest by a man holding a water buffalo on the end of a piece of string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was feeling ashamed, and baffled, and lost. It was lost because everywhere around it was... familiar. The light, the smells, the feel of the soil... But it didn't feel <em class="calibre8">owned</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was made of wood. Wood is sensitive to these things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of its many feet idly traced an outline in the mud. It was a random, wretched pattern familiar to anyone who's had to stand in front of the class and be scolded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, it reached something that was probably as close as timber can get to a decision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been given away. It had spent many years trailing through strange lands, meeting exotic creatures and jumping up and down on them. Now it was back in the country where it had once been a tree. Therefore, it was free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was not the most logical chain of thought, but pretty good when all you've got to think with are knotholes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was something it very much wanted to do.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">When</em> you're ready, Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Ghenghiz. I'm just finishing...' Cohen sighed. The Horde were taking advantage of the rest to sit in the shade of a tree and tell one another lies about their exploits, while Mr Saveloy stood on top of a boulder squinting through some kind of home-made device and doodling on his maps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bits of paper ruled the world now, Cohen told himself. It certainly ruled this part of it. And Teach... well, Teach ruled bits of paper. He might not be traditional barbarian hero material, despite his deeply held belief that all headmasters should be riveted to a cowshed door, but the man was <em class="calibre8">amazing</em> with bits of paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he could speak Agatean. Well, speak it better than Cohen, who'd picked it up in a rough and ready way. He said he'd learned it out of some old book. He said it was amazing how much interesting stuff was in old books.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen struggled up alongside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What exactly you plannin', Teach?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy squinted at Hunghung, just visible on the dusty horizon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you see that hill behind the city?' he said. 'The huge round mound?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks like my dad's burial mound to me,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, it must be a natural formation. It's far too big. There's some kind of pagoda on top, I see. Interesting. Perhaps, later, I shall take a closer look.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen peered at the big round hill. It was a big round hill. It wasn't threatening him and it didn't look valuable. End of saga as far as he was concerned. There were more pressing matters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'People appear to be entering and leaving the outer city,' Mr Saveloy continued. 'The siege is more a threat than a reality. So getting inside should not be a problem. Of course, getting into the Forbidden City itself will be a lot more difficult.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about if we kill everyone?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A good idea, but impractical,' said Mr Saveloy. 'And liable to cause comment. No, my current methodology is predicated on the fact that Hunghung is some considerable way from the river yet has almost a million inhabitants.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Predicated, yeah,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And the local geography is quite wrong for artesian wells.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, 's what I thought...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And yet there is no visible aqueduct, you notice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No aqueduct, right,' said Cohen. 'Prob'ly flown to the Rim for the summer. Some birds do that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Which rather leads me to doubt the saying that not even a mouse can get into the Forbidden City,' said Mr Saveloy, with just a trace of smugness. 'I suspect a mouse could get into the Forbidden City <em class="calibre8">if it could hold its breath</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or ride on one of them invisible ducks,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The cart stopped. The sack came off. Instead of the cheesegrater Rincewind was secretly expecting, the view consisted of a couple of young, concerned faces. One of them was female, but Rincewind was relieved to see that she wasn't Pretty Butterfly. This one looked younger, and made Rincewind think a little of potatoes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How are you?' she said, in fractured but recognizable Morporkian. 'We are very sorry. All better now? We speak you in language of celestial city of Ankh-More-Pork. Language of freedom and progress. Language of One Man, One Vote!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Rincewind. A vision of Ankh-Morpork's Patrician floated across his memory. One man, one vote. Yes. 'I've met him. He's definitely got the vote. But—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extra Luck To The People's Endeavour!' said the boy. 'Advance Judiciously!' He looked as though he'd been built with bricks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me,' said Rincewind, 'but why did you... a paper lantern for ceremonial purposes... bale of cotton... <em class="calibre8">rescue</em> me? Uh, that is, when I say rescue, I suppose I mean: why did you hit me on the head, tie me up, and bring me to wherever this is? Because the worst that could have happened to me in the inn was a ding around the ear for not paying for lunch—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The worst that <em class="calibre8">would</em> have happened was an agonizing death over several years,' said the voice of Butterfly. She appeared around the cart and smiled grimly at Rincewind. Her hands were tucked demurely in her kimono, presumably to hide the knives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Hello,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great Wizard,' said Butterfly, bowing. 'I you already know, but these two are Lotus Blossom and Three Yoked Oxen, other members of our cadre. We had to bring you here like this. There are spies everywhere.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Timely Demise To All Enemies!' said the boy, beaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good, yes, right,' said Rincewind. 'All enemies, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cart was in a courtyard. The general noise level on the other side of the very high walls suggested a large city. Nasty certainty crystallized.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you've brought me to Hunghung, haven't you?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lotus Blossom's eyes widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then it are <em class="calibre8">true</em>,' she said, in Rincewind's own language. 'You <em class="calibre8">are</em> the Great Wizard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you'd be amazed at the things I can foresee,' said Rincewind despondently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You two, go and stable the horses,' said Butterfly, not taking her eyes off Rincewind. When they'd hurried away, with several backward glances, she walked up to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They believe,' she said. 'Personally, I have my doubts. But Ly Tin Wheedle says an ass may do the work of an ox in a time of no horses. One of his less convincing aphorisms, I've always thought.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you. What is a cadre?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you heard of the Red Army?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Well... I heard someone shout something...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'According to legend, an unknown person known only as the Great Wizard led the first Red Army to an impossible victory. Of course, that was thousands of years ago. But the people believe that he - that is, <em class="calibre8">you</em> - will return to do it again. So... there should be a Red Army ready and waiting.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, of course, a man can get a little stiff after several thousand years—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her face was suddenly level with his own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Personally</em> I suspect there has been a misunderstanding,' she hissed. 'But now you're here you'll be a Great Wizard. If I have to prod you every step of the way!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other two returned. Butterfly went from snarling tiger to demure doe in an instant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now you must come and <em class="calibre8">meet</em> the Red Army,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Won't they be a little smelly—' Rincewind began, and stopped when he saw her expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The original Red Army was clearly only a legend,' she said, in fast and faultless Ankh-Morporkian. 'But legends have their uses. You'd better know the legend... Great Wizard. When One Sun Mirror was fighting all the armies of the world the Great Wizard came to his aid and the earth itself rose up and fought for the new Empire. And lightning was involved. The army was made from the earth but in some way driven by the lightning. Now, lightning may kill but I suspect it lacks discipline. And earth cannot fight. But no doubt our army of the earth and sky was nothing more nor less than an uprising of the peasants themselves. Well, now we have a new army, and a name that fires the imagination. And a Great Wizard. I don't believe in legends. But I believe that other people believe.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The younger girl, who had been trying to follow this, stepped forward and gripped his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You come seeing Red Army <em class="calibre8">now</em>,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Forward Motion With Masses!' said the boy, taking Rincewind's other arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does he always talk like that?' said Rincewind, as he was propelled gently towards a door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three Yoked Oxen does not study,' said the girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extra Success Attend Our Leaders!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Tuppence A Bucket, Well Stamped Down!" ' said Rincewind encouragingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Much Ownership Of Means Of Production!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "How's Your Granny Off For Soap?" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three Yoked Oxen beamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly opened the door. That left Rincewind outside with the other two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very useful slogans,' he said, moving sideways just a little. 'But I would draw your attention to the famous saying of the Great Wizard Rincewind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed, I am all ear,' said Lotus Blossom politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rincewind, he say... Goodbyeeeeeeeee—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His sandals skidded on the cobbles but he was already travelling fast when he hit the doors, which turned out to be made of bamboo and smashed apart easily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a street market on the other side. That was something Rincewind remembered later about Hunghung; as soon as there was a space, any kind of space, even the space created by the passage of a cart or a mule, people flowed into it, usually arguing with one another at the tops of their voices over the price of a duck which was being held upside down and quacking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His foot went through a wicker cage containing several chickens, but he pressed on, scattering people and produce. In an Ankh-Morpork street market something like this would have caused some comment, but since everyone around him already seemed to be screaming into other people's faces Rincewind was merely a momentary and unremarked nuisance as he half ran, half limped with one squawking foot past the stalls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind him, the people flowed back. There may have been some cries of pursuit, but they were lost in the hubbub.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't stop until he found an overlooked alcove between a stall selling songbirds and another purveying something that bubbled in bowls. His foot crowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smashed it against cobbles until the cage broke; the cockerel, maddened by the heady air of freedom, pecked him on the knee and fluttered away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were no sounds of pursuit. However, a battalion of trolls in tin boots would have had trouble making themselves heard above a normal Hunghung street market.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let himself get his breath back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, he was his own man again. So much for the Red Army. Admittedly he was in the capital city, where he didn't want to be, and it was only a matter of time before something else unpleasant happened to him, but it wasn't actually happening at the moment. Let him find his bearings and five minutes' start and they could watch his dust. Or mud. There was a lot of both, here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So... this was Hunghung...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There didn't seem to be streets in the sense Rince-wind understood the term. Alleys opened on to alleys, all of them narrow and made narrower by the stalls that lined them. There was a large animal population in the marketplace. Most of the stalls had their share of caged chickens, ducks in sacks and strange wriggling things in bowls. From one stall a tortoise on top of a struggling heap of other tortoises under a sign saying: <em class="calibre8">3r, each, good for Ying</em> gave Rincewind a slow, 'You think you've got troubles?' look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it was hard to tell where the stalls ended and the buildings began in any case. Dried-up things hanging on a string might be merchandise or someone's washing or quite possibly next week's dinner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Hunghungese were an outdoor kind of people; from the look of it, they conducted most of their lives on the street and at the top of their voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Progress was made by viciously elbowing and shoving people until they got out of the way. Standing still and saying, 'Er, excuse me' was a recipe for immobility.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowds did part, though, at the banging of a gong and a succession of loud 'pops'. A group of people in white robes danced past, throwing fireworks around and banging on gongs, saucepans and odd bits of metal. The din contrived to be louder than the street noise, but only by very great effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been getting the occasional puzzled glance from people who stopped screaming long enough to notice him. Perhaps it was time to act like a native.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned to the nearest person and screamed. 'Pretty good, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The person, a little old lady in a straw hat, stared at him in distaste.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's Mr Whu's funeral,' she snapped, and walked off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a couple of soldiers nearby. If this had been Ankh-Morpork, then they'd have been sharing a cigarette and trying not to see anything that might upset them. But these had an alert look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind backed into another alley. An untutored visitor could clearly find himself in big trouble here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This alley was quieter and, at the far end, opened into something much wider and empty looking. On the basis that people also meant trouble, Rincewind headed in that direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here, at last, was an open space. It was very open indeed. It was a paved square, big enough to hold a couple of armies. It had cherry trees growing along the verges. And, given the heaving mob everywhere else, a surprising absence of anyone...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... apart from the soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They appeared abruptly from behind every tree and statue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried to back away, but that proved unfortunate since there was a guard behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A terrifying armoured mask confronted him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Peasant! Do you not know this is the Imperial Square?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was that a capital <em class="calibre8">S</em> on Square, please?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do not ask questions!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. I'll take that as a "yes". So it's important, then. Sorry. I'll just sort of go away, then...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You stay!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what struck Rincewind as amazingly odd was that none of them actually took hold of him. And then he realized that this must be because they hardly ever needed to. People did what they were told.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's something worse than whips in the Empire, Cohen had said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At this point, he realized, he should be on his knees. He crouched down, hands placed lightly in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wonder,' he said brightly, rising into the starting position, 'if this is the time to draw your attention to a famous saying?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen was familiar with city gates. He'd broken down a number in his time, by battering ram, siege gun and on one occasion with his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the gates of Hunghung were pretty damn good gates. They weren't like the gates of Ankh-Morpork, which were usually wide open to attract the spending customer and whose concession to defence was the sign 'Thank You For Not Attacking Our City. Bonum Diem'. <em class="calibre8">These</em> things were big and made of metal and there was a guardhouse and a squad of unhelpful men in black armour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why're we doing this? I thought we were going to use the invisible duck the mice use.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy waggled a finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's for the Forbidden City itself. I hope we'll find that inside. Now, remember your lessons,' he said. 'It's important that you all learn how to behave in cities.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">know</em> how to bloody well behave in cities,' said Truckle the Uncivil. 'Pillage, ravish, loot, set fire to the damn place on your way out. Just like towns only it takes longer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's all very well if you're just passing through,' said Mr Saveloy, 'but what if you want to come back next day?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It ain't bloody well there next day, mister.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gentlemen! Bear with me. You will have to learn the ways of civilization!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People couldn't just walk through. There was a line. And the guards gathered rather offensively around each cowering visitor to examine their papers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it was Cohen's turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Papers, old man?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded happily, and handed the guard captain a piece of paper on which was written, in Mr Saveloy's best handwriting:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">WE ARE WANDERING MADMEN WHO HAVE NO PAPERS. SORRY.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard's gaze lifted from the paper and met Cohen's cheerful grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed,' he said nastily. 'Can't you speak, grandfather?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen, still grinning, looked questioningly at Mr Saveloy. They hadn't rehearsed this part.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Foolish dummy,' said the guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked outraged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought you were supposed to show special consideration for the insane!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You cannot be insane without papers to say you're insane,' said the guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I'm fed up with this,' said Cohen. 'I <em class="calibre8">said</em> it wouldn't work if we came across a thick guard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Insolent peasant!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not as insolent as my friends here,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's us, flatfoot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bum to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extremely foolish soldier.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The captain was taken aback. Deeply ingrained in the Agatean psyche was the habit of obedience. But even stronger was a veneration of one's ancestors and a respect for the elderly, and the captain had never seen anyone so elderly while still vertical. They practically <em class="calibre8">were</em> ancestors. The one in the wheelchair certainly smelled like one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take them to the guardhouse!' he shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde let themselves be manhandled, and did it quite well. Mr Saveloy had spent hours training them in this, since he knew he was dealing with men whose response to a tap on the shoulder was to turn around and hack off someone's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was crowded in the guardhouse, with the Horde and the guards and with Mad Hamish's wheelchair. One of the guards looked down at Hamish, glowering under his blanket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you have there, grandfather?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sword came up through the cloth and stabbed the guard in the thigh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whut? Whutzeesay?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said, "Aargh!", Hamish,' said Cohen, a knife appearing in his hand. With one movement his skinny arms had the captain in a lock, the knife at his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said, "Aargh!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? I ain't even married!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen put a little more pressure on the captain's neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now then, friend,' he said. 'You can have it the easy way, see, or the hard way. It's up to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Blood-sucking pig! You call this the easy way?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I ain't sweatin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'May you live in interesting times! I would rather die than betray my Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fair enough.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took the captain only a fraction of a second to realize that Cohen, being a man of his word, assumed that other people were too. He might, if he had time, have reflected that the purpose of civilization is to make violence the final resort, while to a barbarian it is the first, preferred, only and above all most enjoyable option. But by then it was too late. He slumped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">always</em> lives in interestin' times,' said Cohen, in the satisfied voice of someone who did a lot to keep them interesting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pointed his knife at the other guards. Mr Saveloy's mouth was wide open in horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By rights I should be cleanin' this,' said Cohen. 'But I ain't goin' to bother if it's only goin' to get dirty again. Now, <em class="calibre8">person'ly, I'd</em> as soon kill you as look at you but Teach here says I've got to stop doin' that and become respectable.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the guards looked sideways at his fellows and then fell on his knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is your wish, o master?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, officer material,' said Cohen. 'What's your name, lad?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nine Orange Trees, master.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked at Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do I do now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take them prisoner, <em class="calibre8">please</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How do I do that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... I suppose you tie them up, that sort of thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. And then cut their throats?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! No. You see, once you've got them at your mercy, you're not allowed to kill them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Silver Horde, to a man, stared at the ex-teacher.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid that's civilization for you,' he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you said the sods haven't got any bloody weapons!' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Mr Saveloy, shuddering a little. 'That's why you're not allowed to kill them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you mad? Got mad papers, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen scratched his stubbly chin. The remainder of the guard watched him in trepidation. They were used to cruel and unusual punishment, but they were unaccustomed to argument first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You haven't had a lot of military experience, have you, Teach?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Apart from Form Four? Not a lot. But I'm afraid this is the way it has to be done. I'm sorry. You did say you wanted me—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> vote we just cuts their throats right now,' said Boy Willie. 'I can't be having with this prisoner business either. I mean, who's gonna feed them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid you have to.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who me? Not likely! I vote we make them eat their own eyeballs. Hands up all in favour.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a chorus of assent from the Horde and, among the raised hands, Cohen noticed one belonging to Nine Orange Trees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What you voting for, lad?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please, sir, I would like to go to the lavatory.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You listen to me, you lot,' said Cohen. 'This slaughtering and butchering business isn't how you do it these days, right? That's what Mr Saveloy says and he knows how to spell words like "marmalade" which is more than you do. Now, we know why we're here, and we'd better start as we mean to go on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but you just killed that guard,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm breaking myself in,' said Cohen. 'You've got to creep up on civilization a bit at a time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I still say we should cut their heads off. That's what I did to the Mad Demon-Sucking Priests of Ee!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kneeling guard had cautiously raised his hand again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please, master?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, lad?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You could lock us up in that cell over there. Then we wouldn't be any trouble to anyone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good thinking,' said Cohen. 'Good lad. The boy keeps his head in a crisis. Lock 'em up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thirty seconds later the Horde had limped off, into the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards sat in the cramped, hot cell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually one said, 'What were they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think they might have been ancestors.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought you had to be dead to be an ancestor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The one in the wheelchair <em class="calibre8">looked</em> dead. Right up to the point where he stabbed Four White Fox.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Should we shout for help?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They might hear us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but if we don't get let out we'll be stuck in here. And the walls are very thick and the door is very strong.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stopped running in some alley somewhere. He hadn't bothered to see if they'd followed him. It was true - here, with one mighty bound, you <em class="calibre8">could</em> be free. Provided you realized it was one of your options.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Freedom did, of course, include man's age-old right to starve to death. It seemed a long time since his last proper meal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice erupted further down the alley, as if on cue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rice cakes! Rice cakes! Get chore nice rice cakes! Tea! Hundred-Year-Old Eggs! Eggs! Get them while they're nice and vintage! Get chore - Yeah, what is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An elderly man had approached the salesman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dibhala-san! This egg you sold me—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about it, venerable squire?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you care to smell it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The street vendor took a sniff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes, lovely,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lovely? <em class="calibre8">Lovely</em>? This egg,' said the customer, 'this egg is practically fresh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hundred years old if it's a day, shogun,' said the vendor happily. 'Look at the colour of that shell, nice and black—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It rubs off!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind listened. There was, he thought, probably something in the idea that there were only a few people in the world. There were lots of <em class="calibre8">bodies</em>, but only a few people. That's why you kept running into the same ones. There was probably some mould somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You saying my produce is fresh! May I disembowel myself honourably! Look, I'll tell you what I'll do—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes, there seemed to be something familiar and magical about that trader. Someone had come to complain about a fresh egg, and yet within a couple of minutes he'd somehow been talked into forgetting this and purchasing two rice cakes and something strange wrapped in leaves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rice cakes looked nice. Well... nicer than the other things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sidled over. The trader was idly jigging from one foot to the other and whistling under his breath, but he stopped and gave Rincewind a big, honest, friendly grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nice ancient egg, shogun?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bowl in the middle of the tray was full of gold coins. Rincewind's heart sank. The price of one of Mr Dibhala's foul eggs would have bought a street in Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose you don't give... credit?' he suggested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dibhala gave him a Look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll pretend I never heard that, shogun,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell me,' said Rincewind. 'Do you know if you have any relatives overseas?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This got him another look - a sideways one, full of sudden appraisal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? There's nothing but evil blood-sucking ghosts beyond the seas. Everyone knows that, shogun. I'm surprised you don't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ghosts?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Trying to get here, do us harm,' said Disembowel-Meself-Honourably. 'Maybe even steal our merchandise. Give 'em a dose of the old firecracker, that's what <em class="calibre8">I</em> say. They don't like a good loud bang, ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave Rincewind another look, even longer and more calculating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where you from, shogun?' he asked, and his voice suddenly had the little barbed edge of suspicion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bes Pelargic,' said Rincewind quickly. 'That ex-plains my strange accent and mannerisms that might otherwise lead people to think I was some sort of foreigner,' he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Bes Pelargic,' said Disembowel-Meself-Honourably. 'Well, in that case, I expect you know my old friend Five Tongs who lives in the Street of Heavens, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind was ready for this old trick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' he said. 'Never heard of him, never heard of the street.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Disembowel-Meself-Honourably Dibhala grinned happily. 'If I yell "foreign devil" loud enough you won't get three steps,' he said in conversational tones. 'The guards will drag you off to the Forbidden City where there's this special thing they do with—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've heard about it,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five Tongs has been the district commissioner for three years and the Street of Heavens is the man street,' said Disembowel-Meself-Honourably. 'I've always wanted to meet a blood-sucking foreign ghost. Have a rice cake.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's gaze darted this way and that. But strangely enough the situation didn't seem dangerous, or at least inevitably dangerous. It seemed that danger was negotiable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Supposing I was to admit I was from behind the Wall?' he said, keeping his voice as low as possible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dibhala nodded. One hand reached into his robe and, in a quick movement, revealed and then concealed the corner of something which Rincewind was not entirely surprised to see was entitled WHAT I DID...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some people say that beyond the Wall there's nothing but deserts and burning wastes and evil ghosts and terrible monsters,' said Dibhala, 'but <em class="calibre8">I</em> say what about the merchandizing opportunities? A man with the right contacts... Know what I mean, shogun? He could go a <em class="calibre8">long</em> way in the land of blood-sucking ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded. He didn't like to point out that if you turned up in Ankh-Morpork with a handful of gold then about three hundred people would turn up with a handful of steel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The way I see it, what with all this uncertainty about the Emperor and talk of rebels and that - Long Live His Excellency The Son Of Heaven, of course - there might just be a nitch for the open-minded trader, am I right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nitch?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nitch. Like... we've got this stuff - he leaned closer - 'comes out of a caterpillar's [unidentified pictogram]. 'S called... <em class="calibre8">silk</em>. It's—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I know. We get it from Klatch,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or, well, there's this bush, see, you dry the leaves but then you put it in hot water and you drin—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tea, yes,' said Rincewind. 'That comes from Howondaland.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">D. M. H. Dibhala looked taken aback.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... we've got this powder, you put it in rubes—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fireworks? Got fireworks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about this really fine china, it's so—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In Ankh-Morpork we've got dwarfs that can make china you can read a book through,' said Rincewind. 'Even if it's got tiny footnotes in it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dibhala frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds like you are very clever blood-sucking ghosts,' he said, backing away. 'Maybe it's true and you <em class="calibre8">are</em> dangerous.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Us? Don't worry about us,' said Rincewind. 'We hardly ever kill foreigners in Ankh-Morpork. It makes it so hard to sell them things afterwards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What've we got that you want, though? Go on, have a rice cake. On the pagoda. Wanna try some pork balls? Onna chopstick?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind selected a cake. He didn't like to ask about the other stuff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've got gold,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">gold</em>. It's too soft to do much with,' said Dibhala. 'It's all right for pipes and putting on roofs, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh... I daresay people in Ankh-Morpork could find a use for some,' said Rincewind. His gaze returned to the coins in Dibhala's tray.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A land where gold was as cheap as lead...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's that?' he said, pointing to a crumpled rectangle half covered with coins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">D. M. H. Dibhala looked down. 'It's this thing we have here,' he said, speaking slowly. 'Of course, it's probably all new to you. It's called mon-ey. It's a way of carrying around your—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant the bit of paper,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So did I,' said Dibhala. 'That's a <em class="calibre8">ten-rhinu</em> note.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does that mean?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Means what it says,' said Dibhala. 'Means it's worth ten of these.' He held up a gold coin about the size of a rice cake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why'd you want to buy a piece of paper?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't buy it, it's for buying things <em class="calibre8">with</em>,' said Dibhala.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You go to a mark-et stall,' said Dibhala, getting back into the slow-voice-for-the-hard-of-thinking, 'and you say, "Good morn-ing, but-cher, how much for those dog noses?" and he says, "Three <em class="calibre8">rhinu</em>, shogun," and <em class="calibre8">you</em> say, "I've only got a pony, OK?" (look, there's an etch-ing of a pony on it, see, that's what you get on <em class="calibre8">ten-rhinu</em> notes) and he gives you the dog noses and seven coins in what we call "change". Now, if you had a monkey, that's fifty <em class="calibre8">rhinu</em>, he'd say "Got anything smal-ler?" and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it's only a bit of paper!' Rincewind wailed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It may be a bit of paper to you but it's ten rice cakes to me,' said Dibhala. 'What do you foreign bloodsuckers use? Big stones with holes in them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared at the paper money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were dozens of papermills in Ankh-Morpork, and some of the craftsmen in the Engravers' Guild could engrave their name and address on a pinhead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He suddenly felt immensely proud of his countrymen. They might be venal and greedy, but by heaven they were <em class="calibre8">good</em> at it and they never assumed that there wasn't any more to learn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think you'll find,' he said, 'that there's a lot of buildings in Ankh-Morpork that need new roofs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?' said Dibhala.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. The rain's just pouring in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And people can pay? Only I heard—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at the paper money again. He shook his head. Worth more than gold...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They'll pay with notes at least as good as that,' he said. 'Probably even better. I'll put in a good word for you. And now,' he added hurriedly, 'which way is out?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dibhala scratched his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be a bit tricky,' he said. 'There's armies outside. You look a bit foreign with that hat. Could be tricky—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a commotion further along the alley or, rather, a general increase in the commotion. The crowd parted in that hurried way common to unarmed crowds in the presence of weaponry, and a group of guards hurried towards Disembowel-Meself-Honourably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped back and gave them the friendly grin of one happy to sell at a discount to anyone with a knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A limp figure was being dragged between two of the guards. As it went past it raised a slightly bloodstained head and said, 'Extended Duration to the—' before a gloved fist smacked across its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the guards were heading down the street. The crowd flowed back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tch, tch,' said D. M. H. 'Seems to be - Hello? Where'd you go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind reappeared from around a corner. D. M. H. looked impressed. There had actually been a small thunderclap when Rincewind moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See they got another of 'em,' he said. Tutting up wall posters again, I expect.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Another one of who?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Red Army. Huh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't pay much attention,' said D. M. H. 'They say some old legend's going to come true about emperors and stuff. Can't see it myself.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He didn't look very legendary,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ach, some people will believe anything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What'll happen to him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Difficult to say, with the Emperor about to die. Hands and feet cut off, probably.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos he's young. That's leniency. A bit older and it's his head on a spike over one of the gates.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's punishment for putting up a <em class="calibre8">poster</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stops 'em doing it again, see,' said D. M. H.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you,' he said, and hurried off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no,' he said, pushing his way through the crowds. 'I'm <em class="calibre8">not</em> getting mixed up in people's heads getting chopped off—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then someone hit him again. But politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As he sank to his knees, and then to his chin, he wondered what had happened to the good, old-fashioned 'Hey, you!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Silver Horde wandered through the alleys of Hunghung.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't call <em class="calibre8">this</em> bloody well sweeping through a city, slaughtering every bugger,' muttered Truckle. 'When I was riding with Bruce the Hoon, we <em class="calibre8">never</em> walked in through a front gate like a bunch of soppy mother—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Uncivil,' said Mr Saveloy hurriedly, 'I wonder if this might be a good time to refer you to that list I drew up for you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What bloody list?' said Truckle, sticking out his jaw belligerently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The list of acceptable <em class="calibre8">civilized</em> words, yes?' He turned to the others. 'Remember I was telling you about civ-il-ized be-hav-iour. Civilized behaviour is vital to our long-term strategy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's a long-term strategy?' said Caleb the Ripper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's what we're going to do later,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what's that, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Plan,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'll be f—' Truckle began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The list, Mr Uncivil, only the words on the <em class="calibre8">list</em>,' snapped Mr Saveloy. 'Listen, I bow to your expertise when it comes to crossing wildernesses, but this is civilization and you must use the right words. Please?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Better do what he says, Truckle,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With bad grace, Truckle fished a grubby piece of paper out of his pocket and unfolded it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Dang"?' he said. 'Wassat mean? And what's this "darn" and "heck"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They are... <em class="calibre8">civilized</em> swearwords,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you can take 'em and—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah?' said Mr Saveloy, raising a cautionary finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can shove them up—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle shut his eyes and clenched his fists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dang it all to heck!' he shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Mr Saveloy. 'That's much better.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned to Cohen, who was grinning happily at Truckle's discomfort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen,' he said, 'there's an apple stall over there. Do you fancy an apple?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, might do,' Cohen conceded, in the cautious manner of someone giving a conjuror his watch while remaining aware that the man is grinning and holding a hammer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. Now, then, cla— I mean, gentlemen. Ghenghiz wants an apple. There's a stall over there selling fruit and nuts. What does he do?' Mr Saveloy looked hopefully at his charges. 'Anyone? Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Easy. You kill that little' - there was a rustle of unfolding paper again - '<em class="calibre8">chap</em> behind the stall, then—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Mr Uncivil. Anyone else?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You set fire to—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Mr Vincent. Anyone else... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You rape—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, Mr Ripper,' said Mr Saveloy. 'We take out some muh - muh—?' He looked at them expectantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—money—' chorused the Horde.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and we... What do we do? Now, we've gone through this hundreds of times. We...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was the difficult bit. The Horde's lined faces creased and puckered still further as they tried to force their minds out of the chasms of habit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gi... ?' said Cohen hesitantly. Mr Saveloy gave him a big smile and a nod of encouragement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Give?... it... to...' Cohen's lips tensed around the word '... him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes! Well done. In <em class="calibre8">exchange</em> for the apple. We'll talk about making change and saying "thank you" later on, when you're ready for it. Now then, Cohen, here's the coin. Off you go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen wiped his forehead. He was beginning to sweat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about if I just cut him up a bit—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! This is <em class="calibre8">civilization</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded uncomfortably. He threw back his shoulders and walked over to the stall, where the apple merchant, who had been eyeing the group suspiciously, nodded at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen's eyes glazed and his lips moved silently, as if he were rehearsing a script. Then he said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ho, fat merchant, give me all your... one apple... and I will give you... this coin...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around. Mr Saveloy had his thumb up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You want an apple, is that it?' said the apple merchant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The apple merchant selected one. Cohen's sword had been hidden in the wheelchair again but the merchant, in response to some buried acknowledgement, made sure it was a <em class="calibre8">good</em> apple. Then he took the coin. This proved a little difficult, since his customer seemed loath to let go of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, hand it over, venerable one,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seven crowded seconds passed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then, when they were safely around the corner, Mr Saveloy said, 'Now, everyone: who can tell me what Ghenghiz did wrong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't say please?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't say thank you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hit the man over the head with a melon and thumped him into the strawberries and kicked him in the nuts and set fire to his stall and stole all the money?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Correct!' Mr Saveloy sighed. 'Ghenghiz, you were doing so well up to then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He didn't ort to have called me what he did!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But "venerable" means old and wise, Ghenghiz.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Does it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We-ell... I did leave him the money for the apple.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but, you see, I do believe you took all his other money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I <em class="calibre8">paid</em> for the apple,' said Cohen, rather testily. Mr Saveloy sighed. 'Ghenghiz, I do rather get the impression that several thousand years of the patient development of fiscal propriety have some-what passed you by.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is possible sometimes for money to legitimately belong to other people,' said Mr Saveloy patiently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde paused to wrap their minds around this, too. It was, of course, something they knew to be true in theory. Merchants always had money. But it seemed wrong to think of it as <em class="calibre8">belonging</em> to them; it <em class="calibre8">belonged</em> to whoever took it off them. Merchants didn't actually <em class="calibre8">own</em> it, they were just looking after it until it was needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, there is an elderly lady over there selling ducks,' said Mr Saveloy. 'I think the next stage - Mr Willie, I am not over there, I am sure whatever you are looking at is very interesting, but please pay attention - is to practise our grasp of social intercourse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hur, hur, hur,' said Caleb the Ripper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, Mr Ripper, that you should go and enquire how much it would be for a duck,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hur, hur, hur - What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you are not to rip all her clothes off. That's not civilized.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Caleb scratched his head. Flakes fell out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, what else am I supposed to do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... engage her in conversation.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Eh? What's there to talk about with a woman?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy hesitated again. To some extent this was unknown territory to him as well. His experience with women at his last school had been limited to an occasional chat with the housekeeper, and on one occasion the matron had let him put his hand on her knee. He had been forty before he found out that oral sex didn't mean talking about it. Women had always been to him strange and distant and wonderful creatures rather than, as the Horde to a man believed, something to do. He was struggling a little.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The weather?' he hazarded. His memory threw in vague recollections of the staple conversation of the maiden aunt who had brought him up. 'Her health? The trouble with young people today?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And then I rip her clothes off?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Possibly. Eventually. If she wants you to. I might draw your attention to the discussion we had the other day about taking regular baths' - or even <em class="calibre8">a</em> bath, he added to himself - 'and attention to fingernails and hair and changing your clothes more often.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is leather,' said Caleb. 'You don't have to change it, it don't rot for <em class="calibre8">years</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once again Mr Saveloy readjusted his sights. He'd thought that Civilization could be overlaid on the Horde like a veneer. He had been mistaken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the funny thing - he mused, as the Horde watched Caleb's painful attempts at conversation with a representative of half the world's humanity - was that although they were as far away as possible from the kind of people he normally mixed with in staff-rooms, or possibly because they were as far away as possible from the kind of people he normally mixed with in staffrooms, he actually <em class="calibre8">liked</em> them. Every one of them saw a book as either a lavatorial accessory or a set of portable firelighters and thought that hygiene was a greeting. Yet they were honest (from thieir specialized point of view) and decent (from their specialized point of view) and saw the world as hugely simple. They stole from rich merchants and temples and kings. They didn't steal from poor people; this was not because there was anything virtuous about poor people, it was simply because poor people had no money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And although they didn't set out to give the money <em class="calibre8">away</em> to the poor, that was nevertheless what they did (if you accepted that the poor consisted of innkeepers, ladies of negotiable virtue, pickpockets, gamblers and general hangers-on), because although they would go to great lengths to steal money they then had as much control over it as a man trying to herd cats. It was there to be spent and lost. So they kept the money in circulation, always a praiseworthy thing in any society.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They never worried about what other people thought. Mr Saveloy, who'd spent his whole life worrying about what other people thought and had been passed over for promotion and generally treated as a piece of furniture as a result, found this strangely attractive. And they never agonized about anything, or wondered if they were doing the right thing. And they enjoyed themselves immensely. They had a kind of honour. He <em class="calibre8">liked</em> the Horde. They weren't his kind of people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Caleb returned, looking unusually thoughtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Congratulations, Mr Ripper!' said Mr Saveloy, a great believer in positive reinforcement. 'She still appears to be fully clothed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, what'd she say?' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She smiled at me,' said Caleb. He scratched his crusty beard uneasily. 'A bit, anyway,' he added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She, er... she said she'd... she wouldn't mind seein' me... later...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well done!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... Teach? What's a <em class="calibre8">shave</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saveloy explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Caleb listened carefully, grimacing occasionally. He turned round occasionally to look at the duck seller, who gave him a little wave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cor,' he said. 'Er. I dunno...' He looked around again. 'Never seen a woman who wasn't running away before.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, women are like deer,' said Cohen loftily. 'You can't just charge in, you gotta stalk 'em—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hur, hur, h - Sorry,' said Caleb, catching Mr Saveloy's stern eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think perhaps we should end the lesson here,' said Mr Saveloy. 'We don't want to get you <em class="calibre8">too</em> civilized, do we... ? I suggest we take a stroll around the Forbidden City, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd all seen it. It dominated the centre of Hung-hung. Its walls were forty feet high.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a lot of soldiers guarding the gates,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So they should. A great treasure lies within,' said Mr Saveloy. He didn't raise his eyes, though. He seemed to be staring intently at the ground, as though searching for something he'd lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why don't we just rush up and kill the guards?' Caleb demanded. He was still feeling a bit shaken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't be daft,' said Cohen. 'It'd take all day. Anyway,' he added, feeling a little proud despite himself, 'Teach here is goin' to get us in on an invisible duck, ain't that so, Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Eureka,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's Ephebian, that is,' Cohen told the Horde. 'It means "Give me a towel." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh yeah,' said Caleb, who had been surreptitiously trying to untangle the knots in his beard. 'And when were you ever in Ephebe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Went bounty hunting there once.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who for?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! Did you find me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno. Nod your head and see if it falls off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Gentlemen... behold...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy's orthopaedic sandal was prodding an ornamental metal square in the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Behold what?' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We should look for more of these,' said Mr Saveloy. 'But I think we have it. All we need to do now is wait ontil dark.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an argument going on. All Rincewind could make out were the voices; another sack had been tied over his head, while he himself was tied to a pillar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does he even <em class="calibre8">look</em> like a Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what it says on his hat in the language of ghosts—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you say!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about the testimony of Four Big Sandal, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He was overtaxed. He could have imagined it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I did not! He came out of thin air, flying like a dragon! He knocked over five soldiers. And Three Maximum Luck saw it also. And the others. And then he freed an ancient man and turned him into a mighty fighting warrior!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he can speak our language, just as it says in the book.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right. Supposing he <em class="calibre8">is</em> the Great Wizard? Then we should kill him now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the darkness of his sack, Rincewind shook his head furiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He will be on the side of the Emperor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But the legend says the Great Wizard led the Red Army!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, for Emperor One Sun Mirror. It crushed the people!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, it crushed all the bandit chiefs! Then it built the Empire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So? The Empire is so great? Untimely Demise To The Forces Of Oppression!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But <em class="calibre8">now</em> the Red Army is on the side of the people! Maximum Advancement With The Great Wizard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Great Wizard is the Enemy of the People!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw him, I tell you! A legion of soldiers collapsed with the wind of his passage!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind of his passage was beginning to worry Rincewind as well. It always tended to when he was frightened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If he is such a great wizard, why is he still tied up? Why has he not made his bonds disappear in puffs of green smoke?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps he is saving his magic for some even mightier deeds. He wouldn't do firecracker tricks for earthworms.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he had the Book! He was looking for us! It is his destiny to lead the Red Army!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shake, shake, shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We can lead ourselves!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nod, nod, nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We don't need any suspicious Great Wizards from illusionary places!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nod, nod, nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So we should kill him now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nod, no - <em class="calibre8">Shakeshakeshake</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! He laughs at you with scorn! He waits to make your head explode with snakes of fire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shake, shake, shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do know that while we're arguing Three Yoked Oxen is being tortured?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The People's Army is more than just individuals, Lotus Blossom!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the foetid sack Rincewind grimaced. He was already beginning to take a dislike to the first speaker, as one naturally does with people urging that you be put to death without delay. But when that sort of person started talking about things being more important than people, you knew you were in big trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure the Great Wizard could rescue Three Yoked Oxen,' said a voice by his ear. It was Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, he could easily rescue Three Yoked Oxen!' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! You say? He could get into the Forbidden City? Impossible! It's certain death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nod, nod, nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not to the Great Wizard,' said the voice of Butter-fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Shut up</em>!' hissed Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Would you like to know how big the meat cleaver is that Two Fire Herb is holding in his hand</em>?' whispered Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">No</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">It's very big</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He said that going into the Forbidden City is certain death</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">No. It's only</em> probable <em class="calibre8">death. I assure you, if you run away from me again that is</em> certain <em class="calibre8">death</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sack was pulled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face immediately in front of him was that of Lotus Blossom, and a man could see a lot worse things with his daylight than her face, which made him think of cream and masses of butter and just the right amount of salt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the things he might see, for example, was the face of Two Fire Herb. This was not a nice face. It was podgy and had tiny little pupils in its eyes, and looked like a living example of the fact that although the people could be oppressed by kings and emperors and mandarins, the job could often be done just as well by the man next door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great Wizard? Hah!' Two Fire Herb said now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He can do it!' said Lotus Blossom (and cream cheese, thought Rincewind, and maybe coleslaw on the side). 'He is the Great Wizard come back to us! Did he not guide the Master through the lands of ghosts and blood-sucking vampires?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I wouldn't say—' Rincewind began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Such a great wizard allowed you to bring him here in a sack?' said Two Fire Herb, sneering. 'Let us see him do some conjuring...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A truly <em class="calibre8">great</em> wizard would not stoop to doing party tricks!' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right,' said Rincewind. 'Not stoop.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shame on Herb to suggest such a thing!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shame,' Rincewind agreed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Besides, he will need all of his power to enter the Forbidden City,' said Butterfly. Rincewind found himself hating the sound of her voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Forbidden City,' he murmured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone knows there are terrible snares and traps and many, many guards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Snares, traps...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why, if his magic should fail him because he did tricks for Herb, he would find himself in the deepest dungeon, dying by inches.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Inches... er... which particular inch—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So much shame to Two Fire Herb!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave her a sickly grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Actually,' he said, 'I'm not <em class="calibre8">that</em> great. I'm a <em class="calibre8">bit</em> great,' he added quickly, as Butterfly began to frown, but not <em class="calibre8">very</em> great—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The writings of the Master say that you defeated many powerful enchanters and resolutely succeeded in dangerous situations.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded glumly. It was more or less true. But most of the time he hadn't intended to. Whereas the Forbidden City had looked... well... forbidden. It didn't look inviting. It didn't look as though it sold postcards. The only souvenir they were likely to give you would be, perhaps, your teeth. In a bag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I expect this Oxen lad is in some deep dungeon, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The deepest,' said Two Fire Herb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And... you've never seen anyone again? Who's been taken prisoner, I mean.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We have seen <em class="calibre8">bits</em> of them,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Usually their heads,' said Two Fire Herb. 'On spikes over the gates.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But not Three Yoked Oxen,' said Lotus Blossom firmly. 'The Great Wizard has spoken!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Actually, I'm not sure I actually said—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You have spoken,' said Butterfly firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Rincewind got accustomed to the gloom he realized that he was in some storeroom or cellar; the noise of the city came, rather muffled, from grilles near the ceiling. It was half full of barrels and bundles, and every one of them was a perch for someone. The room was crowded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The people were watching him with expressions of rapt attention, but that wasn't the only thing they had in common.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned right around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who are all these children?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This,' said Lotus Blossom, 'is the Hunghung cadre of the Red Army.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Fire Herb snorted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why did you tell him that?' he said. 'Now we may have to kill him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But they're all so young!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They may be underprivileged in years,' said Two Fire Herb, 'but they are ancient in courage and honour.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And experienced in fighting?' said Rincewind hotly. 'The guards I've seen do not look like nice people. I mean, do you even have any weapons?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We will wrest the weapons we need from our enemies!' said Two Fire Herb. A cheer went up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? How do you actually make them let go?' said Rincewind. He pointed to a very small girl, who leaned away from his digit as though it were loaded. She looked about seven and was holding a toy rabbit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's your name?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One Favourite Pearl, Great Wizard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what do you do in the Red Army?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I have earned a medal for putting up of wall posters, Great Wizard.''</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What... like "Slightly Bad Things Please Happen To Our Enemies"? That sort of thing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...' said the girl, looking imploringly at Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rebellion is not easy for us,' said the older girl. 'We don't have... experience.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'm here to tell you that you don't do it by singing songs and putting up posters and fighting bare-handed,' said Rincewind. 'Not when you're up against real people with real weapons. You...' His voice trailed away as he realized that a hundred pairs of eyes were watching him intently, and two hundred ears were carefully listening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He played back his own words in the echo chamber of his head. He'd said, 'I'm here to tell you...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spread out his hands and waved them frantically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... that is, it's not up to me to tell you anything,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That is <em class="calibre8">correct</em>,' said Two Fire Herb. 'We will overcome because history is on our side.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We will overcome because the Great Wizard is on our side,' said Butterfly sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll tell you this!' shouted Rincewind. 'I'd rather trust me than history! Oh, shit, did I just say that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you <em class="calibre8">will</em> help Three Yoked Oxen,' said Butterfly. 'Please!' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at her, and the tears in the corners of her eyes, and the bunch of awed teenagers who really thought that you could beat an army by singing rousing songs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only one thing he could do, if he really thought about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could play along for now and then get the hell out of it at the very first opportunity. Butterfly's anger was bad, but a spike was a spike. Of course, he'd feel a bit of a heel for a while, but that was the point. He'd feel a heel, but he wouldn't feel a spike.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The world had too many heroes and didn't need another one. Whereas the world had only one Rince-wind and he owed it to the world to keep this one alive for as long as possible.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an inn. There was a courtyard. There was a corral, for the Luggages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were large travelling trunks, big enough to carry the needs of an entire household for a fortnight. There were merchants' sample cases, mere square boxes oh crude legs. There were sleek overnight bags.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They shuffled aimlessly in their pen. Occasionally there was the rattle of a handle or the creak of a hinge, and once or twice the snap of a lid and the bonk-bonk-bonk of boxes trying to get out of the way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three of them were big and covered with studded leather. They looked the kind of travelling accessories that hang around outside cheap hotels and make suggestive remarks to handbags.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The object of their attention was a rather smaller trunk with an inlaid lid and dainty feet. It had already backed into a corner as far as it could go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A large spiked lid creaked open a couple of times as the largest of the boxes edged closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smaller box had retreated so far its back legs were trying to climb the corral fence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of running feet on the other side of the courtyard wall. They got closer, and then stopped abruptly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was a twang such as would be made by an object landing on the taut roof of a cart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a moment, against the rising moon, there was the shape of something somersaulting slowly through the evening air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It landed heavily in front of the three big chests, bounced upright and charged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually various travellers spilled out into the night but by then items of clothing were strewn and trampled around the courtyard. Three black chests, battered and scarred, were discovered on the roof, each one scrabbling on the tiles and butting the others in an effort to be the highest. Others had panicked and broken down the wall and headed out across the country.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually, all but one of them were found.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde were feeling quite proud of themselves when they sat down for dinner. They acted, Mr Saveloy thought, rather like boys who'd just got their first pair of long trousers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which they had done. Each man had one baggy pair of same, plus a long grey robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've been <em class="calibre8">shopping</em>,' said Caleb proudly. 'Paying for things with <em class="calibre8">money</em>. We're dressed up like civilized people.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed,' said Mr Saveloy indulgently. He was hoping that they could all get through this without the Horde finding out what <em class="calibre8">kind</em> of civilized people they were dressed up as. As it was, the beards were a problem. The kind of people who wore these kind of clothes in the Forbidden City didn't usually have beards. They were proverbial for not having them. Actually, they were more properly proverbial for not having other things but, as a sort of consequence of this lack, also for not having beards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen shifted. 'Itchy,' he said. 'This is pants, is it? Never worn 'em before. Same with shirts. What good's a shirt that's not chain mail?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We did very well, though,' said Caleb. He had even had a shave, obliging the barber, for the first time in his experience, to use a chisel. He kept rubbing his naked, baby-pink chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, we're really civilized,' said Vincent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Except for the bit where you set fire to that shopkeeper,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nah, I only set fire to him a bit.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why did you tell that firework merchant that everyone you knew had died suddenly?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy's foot tapped gently against the large parcel under the table, alongside a nice new cauldron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So he wouldn't get suspicious about what I was buying,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five thousand firecrackers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Did I ever tell you that after I taught geography in the Assassins' Guild and the Plumbers' Guild I did it for a few terms in the Alchemists' Guild?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Alchemists? Loonies, the lot of them,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But they're keen on geography,' said Mr Saveloy. 'I suppose they need to know where they've landed. Eat up, gentlemen. It may be <em class="calibre8">a</em> long night.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is this stuff?' said Truckle, spearing something with his chopstick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Chow,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but what is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Chow. A kind of... er... dog.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's nothing <em class="calibre8">wrong</em> with it,' he said hurriedly, with the sincerity of a man who had ordered bamboo shoots and bean curd for himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've eaten everything else,' said Truckle, 'but I ain't eating dog. I had a dog once. Rover.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said Cohen. 'The one with the spiked collar? The one who used to eat people?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Say what you like, he was a friend to me,' said Truckle, pushing the meat to one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rabid death to everyone else. I'll eat yours. Order him some chicken, Teach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Et a man once,' mumbled Mad Hamish. 'In a siege, it were.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You ate someone?' said Mr Saveloy, beckoning to the waiter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just a leg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's terrible!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not with mustard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just when I think I know them, Mr Saveloy mused...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached for his wine glass. The Horde reached for their glasses too, while watching him carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A toast, gentlemen,' he said. 'And remember what I said about not quaffing. Quaffing just gets your ears wet. Just sip. To Civilization!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde joined in with their own toasts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Pcharn'kov!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Lie down on the floor and no-one gets hurt!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "May you live in interesting pants!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "What's the magic word? Gimmee!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Death to most tyrants!" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'The walls of the Forbidden City are forty feet high,' said Butterfly. 'And the gates are made of brass. There are hundreds of guards. But of course we have the Great Wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, I was forgetting.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Butterfly, giving Rincewind a long, appraising look. Rincewind remembered tutors giving him a look like that when he'd got high marks in some test by simply guessing at the answers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down hurriedly at the charcoal scrawls Lotus Blossom had made.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen'd know what to do, he thought. <em class="calibre8">He'd</em> just slaughter his way through. It'd never cross his mind to be afraid or worried. He's the kind of man you need at a time like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No doubt you have magic spells that can blow down the walls,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind wondered what they would do to him when it turned out that he couldn't. Not a lot, he thought, if I'm already running. Of course they could curse his memory and call him names, but he was used to that. Sticks and stones may break my bones, he thought. He was vaguely aware that there was a second half to the saying, but he'd never bothered because the first half always occupied all his attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even the Luggage had left him. That was a minor bright spot, but he missed that patter of little feet...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Before we start,' he said, 'I think you ought to sing a revolutionary song.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cadre liked the idea. Under cover of their chanting he sidled over to Butterfly, who gave him a knowing smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know I can't do it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Master said you were very resourceful.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can't magic a hole in a wall!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure you'll think of something. And... Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Favourite Pearl, the child with the toy rabbit... '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The cadre is all she has. The same goes for many of the others. When the warlords fight, lots of people die. Parents. Do you understand? I was one of the first to read <em class="calibre8">What I Did On My Holidays</em>, Great Wizard, and what ,' saw in there was a foolish man who for some reason is always lucky. Great Wizard... I hope for everyone's sake you have a great deal of luck. Especially for yours.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Fountains tinkled in the courts of the Sun Emperor. Peacocks made their call, which sounds like a sound made by something that shouldn't look as beautiful as that. Ornamental trees cast their shade as only they knew how - ornamentally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The gardens occupied the heart of the city and it was possible to hear the noises from outside, although these were muted because of the straw spread daily on the nearest streets and also because any sound considered too loud would earn its originator a very brief stay in prison.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of the gardens, the most aesthetically pleasing was the one laid out by the first Emperor, One Sun Mirror. It consisted entirely of gravel and stones, but artfully raked and laid out as it might be by a mountain torrent with a refined artistic sense. It was here that One Sun Mirror, in whose reign the Empire had been unified and the Great Wall built, came to refresh his soul and dwell upon the essential unity of all things, while drinking wine out of the skull of some enemy or possibly a gardener who had been too clumsy with his rake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the moment the garden was occupied by Two Little Wang, the Master of Protocol, who came there because he felt it was good for his nerves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was the number two, he'd always told himself. It was an unlucky birth number. Being called Little Wang was merely a lack-of-courtesy detail, a sort of minor seagull dropping after the great heap of buffalo excrement that Heaven had pasted into his very horoscope. Although he had to admit that he hadn't made things any better by allowing himself to become Master of Protocol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had seemed such a good idea at the time. He'd risen gently through the Agatean civil service by mastering those arts essential to the practice of good government and administration (such as calligraphy, origami, flower arranging and the Five Wonderful Forms of poetry). He'd dutifully got on with the tasks assigned to him and noticed only vaguely that there didn't seem to be quite as many high-ranking members of the civil service as there used to be, and then one day a lot of senior mandarins - most of them a lot more senior than he was, it occurred to him later - had rushed up to him while he was trying to find a rhyme for 'orange blossom' and congratulated him on being the new Master.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That had been three months ago.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And of the things that had occurred to him in those intervening three months the most shameful was this: he had come to believe that the Sun Emperor was not, in fact, the Lord of Heaven, the Pillar of the Sky and the Great River of Blessings, but an evil-minded madman whose death had been too long delayed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an awful thought. It was like hating motherhood and raw fish, or objecting to sunlight. Most people develop their social conscience when young, during that brief period between leaving school and deciding that injustice isn't necessarily all bad, and it was something of a shock to suddenly find one at the age of sixty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that he was against the Golden Rules. It made sense that a man prone to thieving should have his hands cut off. It prevented him from thieving again and thus tarnishing his soul. A peasant who could not pay his taxes <em class="calibre8">should</em> be executed, in order to prevent him falling into the temptations of slothfulness and public disorder. And since the Empire was created by Heaven as the only true world of human beings, all else outside being a land of ghosts, it was certainly in order to execute those who questioned this state of affairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he felt that it wasn't right to laugh happily while doing so. It wasn't <em class="calibre8">pleasant</em> that these things should happen, it was merely necessary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From somewhere in the distance came the screams. The Emperor was playing chess again. He preferred to use live pieces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Little Wang felt heavy with knowledge. There had been better times. He knew that now. Things hadn't always been the way they were. Emperors didn't use to be cruel clowns, around whom it was as safe as mudbanks in the crocodile season. There hadn' t always been a civil war every time an Emperor died. Warlords hadn't run the country. People had rights as well as duties.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then one day the succession had been called into question and there was a war and since then it'd never seemed to go right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Soon, with any luck, the Emperor would die. No doubt a special Hell was being made ready. And there'd be the usual battle, and then there'd be a new Emperor, and if he was very lucky Two Little Wang would be beheaded, which was what tended to happen to people who had risen to high office under a previous incumbent. But that was quite reasonable by modern standards, since it was possible these days to be beheaded for interrupting the Emperor's thoughts or standing in the wrong place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At which point, Two Little Wang heard ghosts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They seemed to be right under his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were talking in a strange language, so to Two Little Wang the speech was merely sounds, which went as follows:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Where the hell are we</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Somewhere under the palace, I'm sure. Look for another manhole in the ceiling</em>...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Whut</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I'm fed up with pushing this damn wheelchair</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">It's me for a hot footbath after this, I'm telling you</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You call this a way to enter a city? You call</em> this <em class="calibre8">a way to enter a city? Waist deep in water? We didn't enter a</em>... wretched... <em class="calibre8">city like this when I rode with Bruce the Hoon! You enter a</em>... lovemaking... <em class="calibre8">city by overrunning it with a thousand horsemen, that's how you take a city—</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Yeah, but there ain't room for 'em in this pipe</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sounds had a hollow, booming quality to them. With a kind of fascinated puzzlement Two Little Wang followed them, walking across the manicured gravel in an unthinking way that would have earned him an immediate tongue-extraction from its original lover of peace and tranquillity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Can we please hurry? I'd like us to be out of here when the cauldron goes off and I didn't really have much time to experiment with the fuses</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I still don't understand about the cauldron, Teach</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I hope all those firecrackers will blow a hole in the wall</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Right! So why ain't we there? Why are we in this pipe</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Because all the guards will rush to see what the bans was</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Right! So we should be there</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">No! We should be</em> here, <em class="calibre8">Cohen. The word is</em> decoy. <em class="calibre8">It's... more civilized this way</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Little Wang pressed his ear to the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What's the penalty for entering the Forbidden City again, Teach</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I believe it's a punishment similar to hanging, drawing and quartering. So, you see, it would be a good idea if</em>—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a very faint splashing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">How're you drawn, then</em> ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I think your innards are cut out and shown to you</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What for</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I don't really know. To see if you recognize them, I suppose</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What... like, "Yep, that's my kidneys, yep, that's my breakfast"</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">How're you quartered? Is that, like, they give you somewhere to stay</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I think not, from context</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a while there was no sound but the splash of six pairs of feet and the <em class="calibre8">squeak-squeak</em> of what sounded like a wheel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Well, how're you hung</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Excuse me</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Hur, hur, hur... sorry, sorry</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Little Wang tripped over a two-hundred-year-old bonsai tree and hit his head on a rock chosen for its fundamental serenity. When he came round, a few seconds later, the voices had gone. If there had ever been any.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ghosts. There were a lot of ghosts around these days. Two Little Wang wished he had a few firecrackers to scatter around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being Master of Protocol was even worse than trying to find a rhyme for 'orange blossom'.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Flares lit the alleys of Hunghung. With the Red Army chattering behind him, Rincewind wandered up to the wall of the Forbidden City.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one knew better than Rincewind that he was totally incapable of proper magic. He'd only ever done it by accident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So he could be sure that if he waved a hand and said some magic words the wall would in all probability become just a little bit less full of holes than it was now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a shame to disappoint Lotus Blossom, with her body that reminded Rincewind of a plate of crinkle-cut chips, but it was about time she learned that you couldn't rely on wizards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he could be out of here. What could Butterfly do to him if he tried and failed? And, much to his surprise, he found himself hoping that, on the way out, he could poke Herb in the eye. He was amazed the others couldn't spot him for what he was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This area of wall was between gates. The life of Hunghung lapped against it like a muddy sea; there were stalls and booths everywhere. Rincewind had thought Ankh-Morpork citizens lived out on the streets, but they were agoraphobes compared to the Hunghungese. Funerals (with associated firecrackers) and wedding parties and religious ceremonies went on alongside, and intermingled with, the normal market activities such as free-form livestock slaughter and world-class arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Herb pointed to a clear area of wall stacked with timber.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just about there, Great Wizard,' he sneered. 'Do not exert yourself unduly. A small hole should be sufficient.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But there's hundreds of people around!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that a problem to such a great wizard? Perhaps you can't do it with people watching?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I have no doubt that the Great Wizard will astonish us,' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When the people see the power of the Great Wizard they will speak of it for ever!' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably,' muttered Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cadre stopped talking, although it was only possible to notice this by watching their closed mouths. The hole left by their silence was soon filled by the babble of the market.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind rolled up his sleeves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wasn't even certain about a spell for blowing things up...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved a hand vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should stand well back, everyone,' said Herb, grinning unpleasantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Quanti canicula ilia in fenestre?' said Rincewind. 'Er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared desperately at the wall and, with that heightened perception that comes to those on the edge of terror, noticed a cauldron half hidden in the timber. There seemed to be a little glowing string attached to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' he said, 'there seems to be—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Having problems?' said Herb, nastily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind squared his shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sound like a marshmallow gently landing on a plate, and everything in front of him went white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the white turned red, streaked with black, and the terrible noise clapped its hands across his ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A crescent-shaped piece of something glowing, scythed the top off his hat and embedded itself in the nearest house, which caught fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a strong smell of burning eyebrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the debris settled Rincewind saw quite a large hole in the wall. Around its edge the brickwork, now a red-hot ceramic, started to cool with a noise like <em class="calibre8">glinka-glinka</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">He</em> looked down at his soot-blackened hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gosh,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he said, 'All <em class="calibre8">rightl</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he turned and began to say, 'How about that, then?' but his voice faded when it became apparent that everyone was lying flat on the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A duck watched him suspiciously from its cage. Owing to the slight protection afforded by the bars, its feathers were patterned alternately natural and crispy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd always <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> to do magic like that. He'd always been able to visualize it perfectly. He'd just never been able to do it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A number of guards appeared in the gap. One, whose ferocity of helmet suggested that he was an officer, glared at the charred hole and then at Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you do this?' he demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stand back!' shouted Rincewind, drunk with power. 'I'm the Great Wizard, I am! You see this ringer? Don't make me use it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The officer nodded to a couple of his men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a step back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I warn you! Anyone lays a hand on me, he'll be eating flies and hopping for the rest of his life!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards advanced with the determination of those who were prepared to risk the uncertainty of magic against the definite prospect of punishment for disobeying orders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stand back! This could go off! All right, then, since you force—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved his hand. He snapped his fingers a few times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards, after checking that they were still the same shape, each grabbed an arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It may be delayed action,' he ventured, as they gripped harder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Alternatively, would you be interested in hearing <em class="calibre8">a</em> famous quotation?' he said. His feet were lifted off the ground. 'Or perhaps not?' Rincewind, running absent-mindedly in mid-air, was brought in front of the officer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On your knees, rebel!' said the officer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd like to, but—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw what you did to Captain Four White Fox!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Who's he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take... him... to... the... Emperor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As he was dragged off Rincewind saw, for one brief moment, the guards closing on the Red Army, swords flashing...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A metal plate shuddered for a moment, and then dropped on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Careful!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ain't used to being careful! Bruce the Hoon wasn't care—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up about Bruce the Hoon!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, dang you too!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone out there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen stuck his head out of the pipe. The room was dark, damp and full of pipes and runnels. Water went off in every direction to feed fountains and cisterns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' he said, in a disappointed voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very well. Everyone out of the pipe.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was some echoey swearing and the scrape of metal as Hamish's wheelchair was manoeuvred into the long, low cellar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy lit a match as the Horde spread out and examined their surroundings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Congratulations, gentlemen,' he said. 'I believe we are in the palace.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said Truckle. 'We've conquered a f— a <em class="calibre8">lovemaking</em> pipe. What good is that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We could rape it,' said Caleb hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, this wheel thing turns... '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's a lovemaking pipe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does this lever do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about we find a door, rush out, and kill everyone?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy closed his eyes. There was something familiar about this situation, and now he realized what it was. He'd once taken an entire class on a school trip to the city armoury. His right leg still hurt him on wet days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, no!' he said. 'What good would that do? Boy Willie, please don't pull that lever.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">I'd</em> feel better, for one,' said Cohen. 'Ain't killed anyone all day except a guard, and they hardly count.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Remember that we're here for theft, not murder,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Now, please, out of all that wet leather and into your nice new clothes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't like this part,' said Cohen, pulling on a shirt. 'I like people to know who I was.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said Boy Willie. 'Without our leather and mail people'll just think we're a load of old men.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Exactly,' said Mr Saveloy. 'That is part of the subterfuge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that like tactics?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, but I don't like it,' said Old Vincent. 'S'posing we win? What kind of song will the minstrels sing about people who invaded through a pipe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An echoey one,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They won't sing anything like that,' said Cohen firmly. 'You pay a minstrel enough, he'll sing whatever you want.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A flight of damp steps led to a door. Mr Saveloy was already at the top, listening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right,' said Caleb. 'They say that whoever pays the piper calls the tune.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But, gentlemen,' said Mr Saveloy, his eyes bright, 'whoever holds a knife to the piper's throat writes the symphony.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The assassin moved slowly through Lord Hong's chambers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was one of the best in Hunghung's small but very select guild, and he certainly was not a rebel. He disliked rebels. They were invariably poor people, and therefore unlikely to be customers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His mode of movement was unusual and cautious. It avoided the floor; Lord Hong was known to tune his floorboards. It made considerable use of furniture and decorative screens, and occasionally of the ceiling as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the assassin was very good at it. When a messenger entered the room through a distant door he froze for an instant, and then moved in perfect rhythm towards his quarry, letting the newcomer's clumsy footsteps mask his own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was making another sword. The folding of the metal and all the tedious yet essential bouts of heating and hammering were, he found, conducive to clear thinking. Too much pure cerebration was bad for the mind. Lord Hong liked to use his hands sometimes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He plunged the sword back into the furnace and pumped the bellows a few times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?' he said. The messenger looked up from his prone position near the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good news, o lord. We have captured the Red Army!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that <em class="calibre8">is</em> good news,' said Lord Hong, watching the blade carefully for the change of colour. 'Including the one they call the Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed! But he is not that great, o lord!' said the messenger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His cheerfulness faded when Lord Hong raised an eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? On the contrary, I suspect him of being in possession of huge and dangerous powers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, o lord! I did not mean—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See that they are all locked up. And send a message to Captain Five Hong Man to undertake the orders I gave him today.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, o lord!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now, stand up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The messenger stood up, trembling. Lord Hong pulled on a thick glove and reached for the sword handle. The furnace roared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Chin up, man!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My lord!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now open your eyes wide!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no need for that order. Lord Hong peered into the mask of terror, noted the flicker of movement, nodded, and then in one almost balletic movement pulled the spitting blade from the furnace, turned, thrust...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a very brief scream, and a rather longer hiss.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong let the assassin sag. Then he tugged the sword free and inspected the steaming blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm,' he said. 'Interesting...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He caught sight of the messenger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you still here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, my lord!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See to it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong turned the sword so that the light caught it, and examined the edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And, er, shall I send some servants to clear away the, er, body?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Lord Hong, lost in thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The body, Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What body? Oh. Yes. See to it.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The walls were beautifully decorated. Even Rincewind noticed this, though they went past in a blur. Some had marvellous birds painted on them, or mountain scenes, or sprays of foliage, every leaf and bud done in exquisite detail with just a couple of brush strokes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ceramic lions reared on marble pedestals. Vases bigger than Rincewind lined the corridors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lacquered doors opened ahead of the guards. Rincewind was briefly aware of huge, ornate and empty rooms stretching away on either side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally they passed through yet another set of doors and he was flung down on a wooden floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In these circumstances, he always found, it was best not to look up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually an officious voice said, 'What do you have to say for yourself, miserable louse?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. So it was going to be <em class="calibre8">that</em> kind of interview.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A different voice, a cracked, breathless and elderly voice, said, 'Where is the Grand... Vizier?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He has retired to his rooms, O Great One. He said he had a headache.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Summon him at... once.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly, O Great One.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind, his nose pressed firmly to the floor, made some further assumptions. Grand Vizier was always a bad sign; it generally meant that people were going to suggest wild horses and red-hot chains. And when people were called things like 'O Great One', it was pretty certain that there was no appeal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is a... rebel, is it?' The sentence was wheezed rather than spoken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed, O Great One.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think I would like a clo... ser look.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a general murmur, suggesting that a number of people had been greatly surprised, and then the sound of furniture being moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind thought he saw a blanket on the edge of his vision. Someone was wheeling a bed across the floor...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Make it... stand up.' The gurgle in the pause was like the last bathwater going down the plughole. It sucked as wetly as an outgoing wave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once again a foot kicked Rincewind in the kidneys, making its usual explicit request in the Esperanto of brutality. He got up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre8">was</em> a bed, and quite the biggest Rincewind had ever seen. In it, swathed in brocades and almost lost in pillows, was an old man. Rincewind had never seen anyone look so ill. The face was pale, with a greenish pallor; veins showed up under the skin of his hands like worms in a jar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor had all the qualifications for a corpse except, as it were, the most vital one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So... this is the new Great Wizard of... whom we have read so much, is... it?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he spoke, people waited expectantly for the final gurgle in mid-sentence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I—' Rincewind began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!' screamed a chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hadn't known what to expect of an Emperor, but the mental picture had room for a big fat man with lots of rings. Talking to this one was a hair's breadth from necromancy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you show us some more... magic, Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind glanced at the chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'W—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor waved a hand vaguely, gurgled with the effort, and gave Rincewind another enquiring look. Rincewind decided to chance things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've got a good one,' he said. 'It's a vanishing trick.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you... do it now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only if everyone opens all the doors and turns their back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor's expression did not change. The court fell silent. Then there was a sound like a number of small rabbits being choked to death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor was laughing. Once this was established, everyone else laughed too. No-one can get a laugh like a man who can have you put to death more easily than he goes to the lavatory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What <em class="calibre8">shall</em> we do with... you?' he said. 'Where <em class="calibre8">is</em> the... Grand... Vizier?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd parted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind risked a sideways squint. Once you were in the hands of a Grand Vizier, you were dead. Grand Viziers were <em class="calibre8">always</em> scheming megalomaniacs. It was probably in the job description: 'Are you a devious, plotting, unreliable madman? Ah, good, then you can be my most trusted minister.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Lord... Hong,' said the Emperor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mercy?' suggested Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!' screamed the chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell me, Lord... Hong,' said the ancient Emperor. 'What would be the punishment for a... foreigner... entering the Forbidden City?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Removal of all limbs, ears and eyes, and then allowed to go free,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind raised his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'First offence?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We find, generally, that there is no second offence,' said Lord Hong. 'What is this person?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I like him,' said the Emperor. 'I think I shall... keep him. He makes me... laugh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened his mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!' screamed the chamberlain, perhaps unwisely in view of current thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... could you stop him shouting "Silence!" every time I try to speak?' Rincewind ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly... Great Wizard,' said the Emperor. He nodded at some guards. 'Take the chamberlain... away and cut his... lips off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great One, I—!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And his ears... also.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wretched man was dragged away. A pair of lacquered doors slammed shut. There was a round of applause from the courtiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you... like to watch him eat... them?' said the Emperor grinning happily. 'It's tre... mendous fun.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahahaha,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A good decision, lord,' said Lord Hong. He turned his head towards Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To the wizard's immense surprise, and some horror too, he winked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'O Great One...' said a plump courtier, dropping to his knees, bouncing slightly, and then nervously approaching the Emperor, 'I wonder if perhaps it is entirely wise to be so merciful to this foreign dev—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor looked down. Rincewind would have sworn that dust fell off him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a gentle movement among the crowd. Without anyone apparently doing anything so gross as activating their feet, there was nevertheless a widening space around the kneeling man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the Emperor smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your concern is well... received,' he said. The courtier risked a relieved grin. The Emperor added, 'However, your presumption is not. Kill him slowly... over several... days.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aaargh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes in... deed! Lots of boiling... oil!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An excellent idea, o lord,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor turned back to Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am sure the... Great Wizard is my friend,' he suctioned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahahaha,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd been in this approximate position before, gods knew. But he'd always been facing someone - well, usually someone who looked like Lord Hong, not a near-corpse who was clearly so far round the bend he couldn't poke sanity with a long pole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We shall have <em class="calibre8">such</em>... fun,' said the Emperor. 'I read... all about you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahahaha,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Emperor waved a hand at the court again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now I will retire,' he said. There was a general movement and much ostensible yawning. Clearly no one stayed up later than the Emperor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Emperor,' said Lord Hong wearily, 'what will you have us do with this Great Wizard of yours?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old man gave Rincewind the look a present gets around the time the batteries have run out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Put him in the special... dungeon,' he said. 'For...ow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Emperor,' said Lord Hong. He nodded at a couple of guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind managed a quick look back as he was dragged from the room. The Emperor was lying back in his movable bed, quite oblivious to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is he mad or what?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Silence!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked up at the guard who'd said that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A mouth like that could get a man into big trouble around here,' he muttered.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong always found himself depressed by the general state of humanity. It often seemed to him to be flawed. There was no <em class="calibre8">concentration</em>. Take the Red Army. If <em class="calibre8">he</em> had been a rebel the Emperor would have been assassinated months ago and the country would now be aflame, except for those bits too damp to burn. But these? Despite his best efforts, their idea of revolutionary activity was a surreptitious wall poster saying something like 'Unpleasantness To Oppressors When Convenient!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had tried to set fire to guardhouses. That was good. That was proper revolutionary activity, except for the bit where they tried to make an appointment first. It had taken Lord Hong some considerable effort to see that the Red Army appeared to achieve any victories at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, he'd given them the Great Wizard they so sincerely believed in. They had no excuse now. And by the look of him, the wretch was as craven and talentless as Lord Hong had hoped. Any army led by him would either flee or be slaughtered, leaving the way open for the counter-revolution.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The counter-revolution would <em class="calibre8">not</em> be inefficient. Lord Hong would see to that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But things had to be done one step at a time. There were enemies everywhere. Suspicious enemies. The path of the ambitious man was a nightingale floor. One wrong step and it would sing out. It was a shame the Great Wizard would turn out to be so good at locks. Lord Tang's men were guarding the prison block tonight. Of course, if the Red Army were to escape, no blame at all could possibly attach to Lord Tang...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong risked a little chuckle to himself as he strode back to his suite. Proof, that was the thing. There must never be proof. But that wouldn't matter very long. There was nothing like a fearsomely huge war to unite people, and the fact that the Great Wizard - that is, the leader of the terrible rebel army - was an evil foreign troublemaker was just the spark to light the firecracker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then... Ankh-Morpork [urinating dog].</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hunghung was old. The culture was based on custom, the alimentary tract of the common water buffalo, and base treachery. Lord Hong was in favour of all three, but they did not add up to world domination, and Lord Hong was particularly in favour of that, provided it was achieved by Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I was the traditional type of Grand Vizier, he thought as he sat down before his tea table, I'd cackle with laughter at this point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled to himself, instead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time for the box again? No. Some things were all the better for the anticipation.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mad Hamish's wheelchair caused a few heads to turn, but no actual comment. Undue curiosity was not a survival trait in Hunghung. They just got on with their work, which appeared to be the endless carrying of stacks of paper along the corridors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked down at what was in his hand. Over the decades he'd fought with many weapons - swords, of course, and bows and spears and clubs and... well, now he came to think of it, just about anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except this...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">still</em> don't like it,' said Truckle. 'Why're we carrying pieces of paper?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because no-one looks at you in a place like this if you're carrying a piece of paper,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's - a kind of magic.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd feel happier if it was a weapon.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As a matter of fact, it can be the greatest weapon there is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know, I've just cut myself on my bit,' said Boy Willie, sucking his finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at it like this, gentlemen,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Here we are, actually <em class="calibre8">inside</em> the Forbidden City, and no-one is dead!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. That's what we're... <em class="calibre8">dunging</em>... complaining about,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy sighed. There was something in the way Truckle used words. It didn't matter what he actually said, what you heard was in some strange way the word he actually <em class="calibre8">meant</em>. He could turn the air blue just by saying 'socks'.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The door slammed shut behind Rincewind, and there was the sound of a bolt shooting into place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Empire's jails were pretty much like the ones at home. When you want to incarcerate such an ingenious creature as the common human being, you tend to rely on the good old-fashioned iron bar and large amounts of stone. It looked as though this well-tried pattern had been established here for a very long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, he'd definitely scored a hit with the Emperor. For some reason this did not reassure him. The man gave Rincewind the distinct impression of being the kind of person who is at least as dangerous to his friends as to his enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He remembered Noodle Jackson, back in the days when he was a very young student. Everyone wanted to be friends with Noodle but somehow, if you were in his gang, you found yourself being trodden on or chased by the Watch or being hit in fights you didn't start, while Noodle was somewhere on the edge of things, laughing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, the Emperor wasn't simply at Death's door but well inside the hallway, admiring the carpet and commenting on the hatstand. And you didn't have to be a political genius to know that when someone like that died, scores were being settled before he'd even got cold. Anyone he'd publicly called a friend would have a life expectancy more normally associated with things that hover over trout streams at sunset.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind moved aside a skull and sat down. There was the possibility of rescue, he supposed, but the Red Army would be hard put to it to rescue a rubber duck from drowning. Anyway, that'd put him back in the clutches of Butterfly, who terrified him almost as much as the Emperor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had to believe that the gods didn't intend for Rincewind, after all his adventures, to rot in a dungeon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, he added bitterly, they probably had something much more inventive in mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What light reached the dungeon came from a very small grille and had a second-hand look. The rest of the furnishing was a pile of what had possibly once been straw. There was—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—a gentle tapping at the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once, twice, three times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind picked up the skull and returned the signal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One tap came back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He repeated it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there were two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tapped twice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, this was familiar. Communication without meaning... it was just like being back at Unseen University.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine,' he said, his voice echoing in the cell. 'Fine. Très prisoner. But what are we <em class="calibre8">saying</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a gentle scraping noise and one of the blocks in the wall very gently slid out of the wall, dropping on to Rincewind's foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aargh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What big hippo?' said a muffled voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You wanted to know about the tapping code? It's how we communicate between cells, you see. One tap means—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, but aren't we communicating now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but not formally. Prisoners are not... allowed... to talk...' The voice slowed down, as if the speaker had suddenly remembered something important.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes,' said Rincewind. 'I was forgetting. This is... Hunghung. Everyone... obeys... the rules...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's voice died away too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On either side of the wall there was a long, thoughtful silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Rincewind</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Twoflower</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are <em class="calibre8">you</em> doing here?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rotting in a dungeon!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me too!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief! How long has it been?' said the muffled voice of Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? How long has what been?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But <em class="calibre8">you</em>... why are...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You wrote that damn book!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just thought it would be interesting for people!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Interesting? <em class="calibre8">Interesting</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought people would find it an interesting account of a foreign culture. I never meant it to cause trouble.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind leaned against his side of the wall. No, of course, Twoflower never wanted to cause any trouble. Some people never did. Probably the last sound heard before the Universe folded up like a paper hat would be someone saying, 'What happens if I do this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It must have been Fate that brought you here,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, it's the sort of thing he likes to do,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You remember the good times we had?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did we? I must have had my eyes shut.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The adventures!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">them</em>. You mean hanging from high places, that sort of thing... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rincewind?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes? What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I feel a lot happier about things now <em class="calibre8">you're</em> here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's amazing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind enjoyed the comfort of the wall. It was rust rock. He felt he could rely on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone seems to have a copy of your book,' he said. 'It's a revolutionary document. And I do mean <em class="calibre8">copy</em>. It looks as though they make their own copy and pass it on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, it's called <em class="calibre8">samizdat</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does that mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It means each one must be the same as the one before. Oh, dear. I thought it would just be entertainment. I didn't think people would take it seriously. I do hope it's not causing too much bother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, your revolutionaries are still at the slogan-and-poster stage, but I shouldn't think that'll count for much if they're caught.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How come you're still alive?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. I think they may have forgotten about me. That tends to happen, you know. It's the paperwork. Someone makes the wrong stroke with the brush or forgets to copy a line. I believe it happens a lot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean that there's people in prison and no-one can remember why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then why don't they set them free?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose it is felt that they must have done something. All in all, I'm afraid our government does leave something to be desired.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like a new government.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear. You could get locked up for saying things like that.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">People slept, but the Forbidden City never slept. Torches flickered all night in the great Bureaux as the ceaseless business of Empire went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This largely involved, as Mr Saveloy had said, moving paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds was Deputy District Administrator for the Langtang district, and good at a job which he rather enjoyed. He was not a wicked man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">True, he had the same sense of humour as a chicken casserole. True, he played the accordion for amusement, and disliked cats intensely, and had a habit of dabbing his upper lip with his napkin after his tea ceremony in a way that had made Mrs Beneficent Winds commit murder in her mind on a regular basis over the years. And he kept his money in a small leather shovel purse, and counted it out very thoroughly whenever he made a purchase, especially if there was a queue behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But on the other hand, he was kind to animals and made small but regular contributions to charity. He frequently gave moderate sums to beggars in the street, although he made a note of this in the little notebook he always carried to remind him to visit them in his official capacity later on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he never took away from people more money than they actually had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was also, unusually for men employed in the Forbidden City after dark, not a eunuch. Guards were not eunuchs, of course, and people had got around this by classifying them officially as furniture. And it had been found that tax officials also needed every faculty at their disposal to combat the wiles of the average peasant, who had this regrettable tendency to avoid paying taxes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were much nastier people in the building than Six Beneficent Winds and it was therefore just his inauspicious luck that his paper and bamboo door slid aside to reveal seven strange-looking old eunuchs, one of them in a wheeled contrivance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't even bow, let alone fall on their knees. And he not only had an official red hat but it had a white button on it!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His brush dropped from his hands when the men wandered into his office as if they owned it. One of them started poking holes in the wall and speaking gibberish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Hey, the walls are just made of paper! Hey, look, if you lick your finger it goes right through! See</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I will call for the guards and have you all flogged!' shouted Six Beneficent Winds, his temper moderated slightly by the extreme age of the visitors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What did he say</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He said he'd call for the guards</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Ooo, yes. Please let him call for the guards</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">No, we don't want that yet. Act normally</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You mean cut his throat</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I meant a more normal kind of normally</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">It's what</em> I <em class="calibre8">call normal</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the old men faced the speechless official and gave him a big grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse us, your supreme... <em class="calibre8">oh dear, what's the word</em>?... . pushcart sail?... immense rock?... <em class="calibre8">ah, yes</em>... venerableness, but we seem to be a little lost.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of the old men shuffled around behind Six Beneficent Winds and started to read, or at least try to read, what he'd been working on. A sheet of paper was snatched from his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What's this say, Teach</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let me see... "The first wind of autumn shakes the lotus flower. Seven Lucky Logs to pay one pig and three <em class="calibre8">[looks like a four-armed man waving a flag]</em> of rice on pain of having his <em class="calibre8">[rather a stylized thing here, can't quite make it out]</em> struck with many blows. By order of Six Beneficent Winds, Collector of Revenues, Langtang." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a subtle change among the old men. Now they were all grinning, but not in a way that gave him any comfort. One of them, with teeth like diamonds, leaned towards him and said, in bad Agatean:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You are a tax collector, Mr Knob on Your Hat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds wondered if he'd be able to summon the guard. There was something terrible about these old men. They weren't venerable at all. They were horribly menacing and, although he couldn't see any obvious weapons, he knew for a cold frozen fact that he wouldn't be able to get out more than the first syllable before he'd be killed. Besides, his throat had gone dry and his pants had gone wet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nothing wrong with being a tax collector...' he croaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We never said that,' said Diamond Teeth. 'We always like to meet tax collectors.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some of our most favouritest people, tax collectors,' said another old man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Saves a lot of trouble,' said Diamond Teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said a third old man. 'Like, it means you don't have to go from house to house killin' everyone for their valuables, you just wait and kill the—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gentlemen, can I have a word?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The speaker was the slightly goat-faced one that didn't seem quite so unpleasant as the others. The terrible men clustered around him and Six Beneficent Winds heard the strange syllables of a coarse foreign tongue:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">What? But he's a tax collector! That's what they're for</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Whut</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">A firm tax base is the foundation of sound governance, gentlemen. Please trust me</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I understood all of that up to "A firm tax"</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Nevertheless, no useful purpose will be served by killing this hard-working tax gatherer</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He'd be dead. I call</em> that <em class="calibre8">useful</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was some more of the same. Six Beneficent Winds jumped when the group broke up and the goat-faced man gave him a smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My humble friends are overawed by your... variety of plum... small knife for cutting seaweed... <em class="calibre8">presence</em>, noble sir,' he said, his every word slandered by Truckle's vigorous gesticulations behind his back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">How about if we just cut a bit off</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Whut</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did you get in here?' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'There are many strong guards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">knew</em> we missed something,' said Diamond Teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We would like you to show us around the For-bidden City,' said Goat Face. 'My name is... Mr Stuffed Tube, I think you would call it. Yes. Stuffed Tube, I'm pretty sure—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds glanced hopefully towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and we are here to learn more about your won-derful... mountain... variety of bamboo... sound of running water at evening... <em class="calibre8">drat</em>... civilization.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind him, Truckle was energetically demonstrating to the rest of the Horde what he and Bruce the Hoon's Skeletal Riders once did to a tax gatherer. The sweeping arm movements in particular occupied Six Beneficent Winds' attention. He couldn't understand the words but, somehow, you didn't need to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Why are you talking to him like that</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Ghenghiz, I'm lost. There are no maps of the Forbidden City. We need a guide</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goat Face turned back to the taxman. 'Perhaps you would like to come with us?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out, thought Six Beneficent Winds. Yes! There may be guards out there!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just a minute,' said Diamond Teeth, as he nodded. 'Pick up your paintbrush and write down what I say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A minute later, they'd gone. All that remained in the taxman's office was an amended piece of paper, which read as follows:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Roses are red, violets are blue. Seven Lucky Logs to be given one pig and all the rice he can carry, because he is now One Lucky Peasant. By order of Six Beneficent Winds, Collector of Revenues, Langtang. Help. Help. If anyone reads this I am being held prisoner by an evil eunuch. Help.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind and Twoflower lay in their separate cells and talked about the good old days. At least, Two-flower talked about the good old days. Rincewind worked at a crack in the stone with a piece of straw, it being all he had to hand. It would take several thousand years to make any kind of impression, but that was no reason to give up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do we get fed in here?' he said, interrupting the flow of reminiscence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, sometimes. But it's not like the marvellous food in Ankh-Morpork.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really,' murmured Rincewind, scratching away. A tiny piece of mortar seemed ready to move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll always remember the taste of Mr Dibbler's sausages.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'People do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A once-in-a-lifetime experience.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Frequently.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The straw broke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Damn and blast!' Rincewind sat back. 'What's so important about the Red Army?' he said. 'I mean, they're just a bunch of kids. Just a nuisance!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I'm afraid things got rather confused,' said Twoflower. 'Um. Have you ever heard of the theory that History goes in cycles?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw a drawing in one of Leonard of Quirm's notebooks—' Rincewind began, trying again with another straw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I mean... like a... wheel, spinning. If you stand in the same place it all comes round again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">that</em>. Blast!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, a lot of people believe it here. They think History starts again every three thousand years.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be,' said Rincewind, who was looking for another straw and wasn't really listening. Then the words sank in. 'Three thousand years? That's a bit short, isn't it? The whole thing? Stars and oceans and intelligent life evolving from arts graduates, that sort of thing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no. That's just... stuff. <em class="calibre8">Proper</em> history started with the founding of the Empire by One Sun Mirror. The first Emperor. And his servant, the Great Wizard. Just a legend, really. It's the sort of thing peasants believe. They look at something like the Great Wall and say, that's such a marvellous thing it must have been built by magic... And the Red Army... what it <em class="calibre8">probably</em> was was just a well-organized body of trained fighting men. The first real army, you see. All there was before was just undisciplined mobs. That's what it must have been. Not magical at all. The Great Wizard couldn't really have <em class="calibre8">made</em>... What the peasants believe is silly...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why, what do they believe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say the Great Wizard made the earth come alive. When all the armies on the continent faced One Sun Mirror the Great Wizard... flew a kite.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds sensible to me,' said Rincewind. 'When there's war around take the day off, that's my motto.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, you don't understand. This was a special kite. It trapped the lightning in the sky and the Great Wizard stored it in bottles and then took the mud itself and... baked it with the lightning, and made it into an army.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never heard of any spells for that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And they have funny ideas about reincarnation, too...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind conceded that they probably would. It probably whiled away those long water-buffaloid hours: hey, after I die I hope I come back as... a man holding a water buffalo, but facing a different way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... no,' said Twoflower. They don't think you come <em class="calibre8">back</em> at all. Er... I'm not using the right words, am I?... Bit corroded on this language... I mean ^reincarnation. It's like reincarnation backwards. They think you're born before you die.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, really?' said Rincewind, scratching at the stones. 'Amazing! Born before you die? Life before death? People will get really excited when they hear about that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's not exactly... er. It's all tied in with ancestors. You should always venerate ancestors because you might be them one day, and... Are you listening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little piece of mortar fell away. Not bad for ten minutes' work, thought Rincewind. Come the next Ice Age, we're out of here...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It dawned on him that he was working on the wall that led to Twoflower's cell. Taking several thousand years to break into an adjoining cell could well be thought a waste of time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started on a different wall. Scratch... scratch...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a terrible scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">Scratchscratchscratch—</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds like the Emperor has woken up,' said Twoflower's voice from the hole in the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's kind of an early morning torture, is it?' said Rincewind. He started to hammer at the huge blocks with a piece of shattered stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not really his fault. He just doesn't understand about people.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that so?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know how common kids go through a stage of pulling the wings off flies?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I</em> never did,' said Rincewind. 'You can't trust flies. They may look small but they can turn nasty.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Kids generally, I mean.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes? Well?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He</em> is an Emperor. No-one ever dared tell him it was wrong. It's just a matter of, you know, scaling up. All the five families fight among themselves for the crown. He killed his nephew to become Emperor. No-one has ever told him that it's not right to keep killing people for fun. At least, no-one who has ever managed to get to the end of the first sentence. And the Hongs and the Fangs and the Tangs and the Sungs and the McSweeneys have been killing one another for thousands of years. It's all part of the royal succession.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'McSweeneys?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very old-established family.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded gloomily. It was probably like breeding horses. If you have a system where treacher-ous murderers tend to win, you end up breeding <em class="calibre8">really</em> treacherous murderers. You end up with a situation where it's dangerous to lean over a cradle...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind started kicking at the stones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A key turned in the lock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the door didn't open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally Rincewind walked over and tried the big iron ring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door swung outwards, but not too far because the recumbent body of a guard makes an unusual but efficient doorstop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a whole ring of keys hanging from the one in the door...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An inexperienced prisoner would simply have run for it. But Rincewind was a post-graduate student in the art of staying alive, and knew that in circumstances like these much the best thing to do was let out every single prisoner, pat each one hurriedly on the back and say, 'Quick! They're coming for you!' and then go and sit somewhere nice and quiet until the pursuit has disappeared in the distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the door to Twoflower's cell first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little man was skinnier and grubbier than he remembered, and had a wispy beard, but in one very significant way he had the feature that Rincewind remembered so well - the big, beaming, <em class="calibre8">trusting</em> smiled that suggested that anything bad currently happening to him was just some sort of laughable mistake and would be bound to be sorted out by reasonable people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rincewind! It is you! I certainly never thought I'd see <em class="calibre8">you</em> again!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I thought something on those lines,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked past Rincewind at the fallen guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is he dead?' he said, speaking of a man with a sword half buried in his back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extremely likely.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did <em class="calibre8">you</em> do that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was <em class="calibre8">inside</em> the cell!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazing! Good trick!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite several years of exposure to the facts of the matter, Rincewind remembered, Twoflower had never really wanted to grasp the fact that his companion had the magical abilities of the common house fly. It was useless to try to dissuade him. It just meant that modesty was added to the list of non-existent virtues.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried some of the keys in other cell doors. Various raggedy people emerged, blinking in the slightly better light. One of them, turning his body slightly in order to get it through the door, was Three Yoked Oxen. From the look of him he'd been beaten up, but this might just have been someone's attempt to attract his attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is Rincewind,' said Twoflower proudly. 'The Great Wizard. Did you know he killed the guard from inside the cell?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They politely inspected the corpse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't, really,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he's modest, too!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Long Life To The People's Endeavour!' said Three Yoked Oxen through rather swollen lips.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Mine's A Pint!" ' said Rincewind. 'Here's bigfella keys belong door, you go lettee people outee chop-chop.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the freed prisoners limped to the end of the passage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a dead guard here,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It wasn't me,' said Rincewind plaintively. 'I mean, perhaps I <em class="calibre8">wished</em> they were dead, but—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People edged away. You didn't want to be too close to anyone who could wish like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If this had been Ankh-Morpork someone would have said, 'Oh, yeah, sure, he magically stabbed them in the back?' But that was because people in Ankh-Morpork knew Rincewind, and they knew that if a wizard really wanted you dead you'd have no back left to stab.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three Yoked Oxen had been able to master the technical business of opening doors. More swung open...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lotus Blossom?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She clung to Oxen's arm and smiled at Rincewind. Other members of the cadre trooped out behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then, to Rincewind's amazement, she looked at Twoflower, screamed, and threw her arms around his neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extended Continuation To Filial Affection!' chanted Three Yoked Oxen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Close Cover Before Striking!" ' said Rincewind. 'Er. What exactly is happening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A very small Red soldier tugged at his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He is her daddy,' it said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You never said you had children!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure I did. Often,' said Twoflower, disentangling himself. 'Anyway... it is allowed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're <em class="calibre8">married</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was, yes. I'm sure I must have said.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We were probably running away from something at the time. So there's a Mrs Twoflower, is there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There was for a while,' said Twoflower, and for a moment an expression almost of anger distorted his preternaturally benign countenance. 'Not, alas, any more.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked away, because that was better than looking at Twoflower's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly had also emerged. She stood just outside the cell door, with her hands clasped in front of her. looking down demurely at her feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower rushed over to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Butterfly!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down at the rabbit clutcher.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She another daughter, Pearl?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeth.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little man came towards Rincewind, dragging the girls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you met my daughters?' he said. This is Rincewind, who—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We have had the pleasure,' said Butterfly, gravely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did you all get here?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We fought as hard as we could,' said Butterfly. 'But there were simply too many of them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hope you didn't try to grab their weapons,' said Rincewind, as sarcastically as he dared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly glared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Herb says it is the system that is to blame,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bet he's got a better system all worked out.' Rincewind looked at the throng of prisoners. 'They usually have. Where is he, by the way?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girls looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't see him here,' said Lotus Blossom. 'But I think that when the guards attacked us he laid down his life for the cause.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because that's what he said we should do. I am ashamed that I did not. But they seemed to want to capture us, not kill us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I did not see him,' said Butterfly. She and Rince-wind exchanged a glance. 'I think perhaps... he was not there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean he had been caught already?' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly looked at Rincewind again. It occurred to him that whereas Lotus Blossom had inherited a Twoflower view of the world, Butterfly <em class="calibre8">must</em> have taken after her mother. She thought more like Rince-wind, i.e., the worst of everyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Make Considerable Sacrifice For The Common Good,' said Three Yoked Oxen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "There's One Born Every Minute," ' said Rince-wind, absently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly seemed to get a grip on herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'However,' she said, 'we must make the most of this opportunity.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind, who had been heading for the stairs, froze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Exactly what do you mean?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you see? We are at large in the Forbidden City!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not me!' said Rincewind. 'I've never been at large. I've always been at hunched.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The enemy brought us in here and now we are free—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thanks to the Great Wizard,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and we must seize the day!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She picked up <em class="calibre8">a</em> sword from a stricken guard and waved it dramatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We must storm the palace, just as Herb suggested!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's only thirty of you!' said Rincewind. 'You're not a storm! You're a shower!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There are hardly any guards within the city itself,' said Butterfly. 'If we can overcome those around the Emperor's apartments—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll be killed!' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned on him. 'Then at least we shall have died for something!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cleanse The State With The Blood Of Martyrs,' rumbled Three Yoked Oxen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind spun around and waved a finger under Three Yoked Oxen's nose, which was as high as he could reach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll bloody well thump you if you trot out something like that one more time!' he shouted, and then grimaced at the realization that he had just threatened a man three times heavier than he was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen to me, will you?' he said, settling down a lettle. 'I know about people who talk about suffering for the common good. It's never bloody them! When you hear a man shouting "Forward, brave comrades!" you'll see he's the one behind the bloody big rock and wearing the only really arrow-proof helmet! Understand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped. The cadre were looking at him as if he was mad. He stared at their young, keen faces, and felt very, very old.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But there are causes worth dying for,' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, there aren't! Because you've only got one life but you can pick up another five causes on any street corner!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief, how can you <em class="calibre8">live</em> with a philosophy like that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a deep breath. 'Continuously!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds had thought it was a pretty good plan.. The horrible old men were lost in the Forbidden City. Although they had a wiry look, rather like natural bonsai trees that had managed to flourish on a wind-swept cliff, they were nevertheless <em class="calibre8">very</em> old and not at all heavily armed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So he led them in the direction of the gymnasium.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And when they were inside he screamed for help at top of his voice. To his amazement, they didn't turn and run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can we kill him <em class="calibre8">now</em>?' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of dozen muscular men had stopped pounding logs of wood and piles of bricks and were regarding them suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got any ideas?' said Cohen to Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear. They're so very <em class="calibre8">tough</em> looking, aren't they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't think of anything civilized?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. It's over to you, I'm afraid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! Hah! I bin <em class="calibre8">waiting</em> for this,' said Caleb, pushing forward. 'Bin practising every day, 'n I? With my big lump o' teak.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'These are ninjas,' said Six Beneficent Winds proudly, as a couple of the men wandered towards the door and pulled it shut. 'The finest fighters in the world! Yield now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's interesting,' said Cohen. 'Here, you, in the black pyjamas . .. Just got out of bed, have you? Who's the best out of all of you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the men stared fixedly at Cohen and thrust out a hand at the nearest wall. It left a dent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he nodded at the tax gatherer. 'What are these old fools you've brought us?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think they're barbarian invaders,' said the tax-man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How'd you - How'd he know that?' said Boy Willie. 'We're wearin' itchy trousers and eatin' with forks and <em class="calibre8">every thin'—</em>'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The leading ninja sneered. 'Heroic eunuchs?' he said. 'Old men?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who're you calling a eunuch?' Cohen demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can I just show him what I've been practising with my lump o' teak?' said Caleb, hopping arthritically from one foot to the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ninja eyed the slab of timber.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You could not make a dent on that, old man,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You watch,' said Caleb. He held out the wood at arm's length. Then he raised his other hand, grunting a little as it got past shoulder height.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You watching this hand? You watching this hand?' he demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am watching,' said the laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Caleb. He kicked the man squarely in the groin and then, as he doubled up, hit him over the head with the teak.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cos you should've been watchin' this foot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And that would have been all there was to it if there had only been one ninja. But there was a clatter of rice flails and an unsheathing of long, curved swords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde drew closer together. Hamish pushed back his rug to reveal their armoury, although the collection of notched blades looked positively homely compared with the shiny toys ranged against them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach, why don't you take Mr Taxman over to the corner out of harm's way?' said Ghenghiz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is madness!' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'They're the finest fighters in the world and you're just old men! Give in now and I'll see if I can get you a rebate!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Calm down, calm down,' said Mr Saveloy. 'No-one's going to get hurt. Metaphorically, at least.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ghenghiz Cohen waved his sword a few times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'OK, you lads,' he said. 'Give us your best ninje.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds looked on in horror as the Horde squared up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it will be terrible slaughter!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid so,' said Mr Saveloy. He fished in his pockets for a bag of peppermints.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who are these mad old men? What do they <em class="calibre8">do</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Barbarian heroing, generally,' said Mr Saveloy, 'Rescuing princesses, robbing temples, fighting mon-sters, exploring ancient and terror-filled ruins... that sort of thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But they look old enough to be dead! Why do they do it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saveloy shrugged. 'That's all they've ever done.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A ninja somersaulted down the room, screaming, a sword in either hand; Cohen waited in an attitude rather similar to that of a baseball batter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wonder,' said Mr Saveloy, 'if you have ever heard of the term "evolution"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two met. The air blurred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or "survival of the fittest"?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scream continued, but rather more urgently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't even see his sword move!' whispered Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. People often don't,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... they're so old!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed,' said the teacher, raising his voice above the screams, 'and of course this is true. They are very <em class="calibre8">old</em> barbarian heroes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman stared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you like a peppermint?' said Mr Saveloy, as Hamish's wheelchair thundered past in pursuit of a man with a broken sword and a pressing desire to stay alive. 'You may find it helps, if you are around the Horde for any length of time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The aroma from the proffered paper bag hit Six Beneficent Winds like a flamethrower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can you smell anything after eating those?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't,' said Mr Saveloy happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman continued to stare. The fighting was a fast and furious affair but, somehow, only on one side. The Horde fought like you'd expect old men to fight - slowly, and with care. All the activity was on the part of the ninjas, but no matter how well flung the throwing star or speedy the kick, the target was always, without any obvious effort, not there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Since we have this moment to chat,' said Mr Saveloy, as something with a lot of blades hit the wall just above the taxman's head, 'I wonder: could you tell me about the big hill just outside the city? It is quite a remarkable feature.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Six Beneficent Winds distractedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The big hill.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You want to know about <em class="calibre8">that? Now</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Geography is a little hobby of mine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone's ear hit Six Beneficent Winds on the ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. What? We call it the Big Hill... Hey, look at what he's doing with his—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It seems remarkably regular. Is it a natural feature?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Eh? Oh... I don't know, they say it turned up thousands of years ago. During a terrible storm. When the first Emperor died. He... he's going to be killed! He's going to be killed! He's going to be - How did he do that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds suddenly remembered, as a child, playing <em class="calibre8">Shibo Yangcong-san</em> with his grand-father. The old man always won. No matter how carefully he'd assembled his strategy, he'd find Grand-father would place a tile quite innocently right in the crucial place just before he could make his big move. The ancestor had spent his whole life playing <em class="calibre8">shibo</em>. The fight was just like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, my,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right,' said Mr Saveloy. 'They've had a lifetime's experience of not dying. They've become very good at it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... why here? Why come here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're going to undertake a robbery,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds nodded sagely. The wealth of the Forbidden City was legendary. Probably even blood-sucking ghosts had heard of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Talking Vase of Emperor P'gi Su?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Jade Head of Sung Ts'uit Li?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Wrong track entirely, I'm afraid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not the secret of how silk is made?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief. Silkworms' bottoms. Everyone knows that. No. Something rather more precious than that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite himself, Six Beneficent Winds was impressed. Apart from anything else, only seven ninjas were still standing and Cohen was fencing with one of them while rolling a cigarette in the other hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Mr Saveloy could see <em class="calibre8">it</em> dawning in the fat man's eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The same thing had happened to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen came into people's lives like a rogue planet into a peaceful solar system, and you felt yourself being dragged along simply because nothing like that would ever happen to you again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He himself had been peacefully hunting for fossils during the school holidays when he had, more or less, stumbled into the camp of those particular fossils called the Horde. They'd been quite friendly, because he had neither weapons nor money. And they'd taken to him, because he knew things they didn't. And that had been it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd decided there and then. It must have been something in the air. His past life had suddenly unrolled behind him and he couldn't remember a single day of it that had been any fun. And it had dawned on him that he could join the Horde or go back to school and, pretty soon, a limp handshake, a round of applause and his pension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was something about Cohen. Maybe it was what they called charisma. It overpowered even his normal smell of a goat that had just eaten curried asparagus. He did everything wrong. He cursed people and used what Mr Saveloy considered very offensive language to foreigners. He shouted terms that would have earned anyone else a free slit throat from a variety of interesting ethnic weapons - and he got away with it, partly because it was clear that there was no actual malice there but mainly because he was, well, Cohen, a sort of basic natural force on legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It worked on everything. When he wasn't actually fighting them, he got on a lot better with trolls than did people who merely thought that trolls had rights just like everyone else. Even the Horde, bloody-minded individualists to a man, fell for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Mr Saveloy had also seen the aimlessness in their lives and, one night, he'd brought the conversation round to the opportunities offered in the Aurient...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a light in Six Beneficent Winds' expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you got an accountant?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, no, as a matter of fact.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Will this theft be treated as income or capital?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I haven't really thought like that. The Horde doesn't pay taxes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Not to <em class="calibre8">anyone</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. It's funny, but they never seem to keep their money for long. It seems to disappear on drink and women and high living. I suppose, from a heroing point of view, they may count as taxes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a 'pop' as Six Beneficent Winds uncorked a small bottle of ink and licked his writing brush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But those sort of things probably count as allowable expenses for a barbarian hero,' he said. 'They are part of the job specification. And then of course there is wear and tear on weaponry, protective clothing... They could certainly claim for at least one new loincloth a year—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't think they've claimed for one per century.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And there's pensions, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Don't use that word. They think it's a dirty word. But in a way <em class="calibre8">that</em> is what they're here for. This is their last adventure.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When they've stolen this very valuable thing that you won't tell me about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right. You'd be very welcome to join us. You could perhaps be a barbarian... to push beans... a length of knotted string... <em class="calibre8">ah</em>... accountant. Have you ever killed anyone?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not outright. But I've always thought you can do considerable damage with a well-placed Final Demand.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy beamed. 'Ah, yes,' he said. 'Civilization.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The last ninja was upright, but only just; Hamish had run his wheelchair over his foot. Mr Saveloy patted the taxman's arm. 'Excuse me,' he said. 'I find I often have to intervene at this stage.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He padded over to the surviving man, who was looking around wildly. Six swords had become interlaced around his neck as though he'd taken part in a rather energetic folk dance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good morning,' said Mr Saveloy. 'I should just point out that Ghenghiz here is, despite appearances, a remarkably honest man. He finds it hard to understand empty bravura. May I venture to suggest therefore that you refrain from phrases like "I would rather die than betray my Erflperor" or "Go ahead and do your worst" unless you <em class="calibre8">redly, really</em> mean them. Should you wish for mercy, a simple hand signal will suffice. I strongly advise you not to attempt to nod.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The young man looked sideways at Cohen, who gave him an encouraging smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he waved a hand quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The swords unwove. Truckle hit the ninja over the head with a club.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all right, you don't have to go on about it, I didn't kill him,' he said sulkily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!' Boy Willie had been experimenting with a rice flail and had hit his own ear. 'How'd they manage to fight with this rubbish?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'These little Hogswatch decoration thingies look the business, though,' said Vincent, picking up a throwing star. 'Aaargh!' He sucked his fingers. 'Useless foreign junk.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That bit where that lad sprang backwards right across the room with them axes in his hands was impressive, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You didn't ought to have stuck your sword out like that, I thought.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's learned an important lesson.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It won't do him much good now where he's gone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds was half laughing, half shocked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... but... I've seen these guards fight before!' he said. 'They're <em class="calibre8">invincible</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No-one told <em class="calibre8">us</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you beat them all!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you're just eunuchs!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a scrape of steel. Six Beneficent Winds closed his eyes. He could feel metal touching his neck in at least five places.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's that word again,' said the voice of Cohen the Barbarian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... you're... <em class="calibre8">dressed</em>... as... eunuchs...' murmured Six Beneficent Winds, trying not to swallow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy backed away, chuckling nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see,' he said, speaking fast, 'you're too old to be taken for guards and you don't look like bureaucrats, so I thought it would be, er, a very good disguise to—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Eunuch</em>?' roared Truckle. 'You mean people've been looking at me and thinking I mince around saying, <em class="calibre8">Helluo, Saltat</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like many men whose testosterone had always sloshed out of their ears, the Horde had never fine-tuned their approach to the more complex areas of sexuality. A teacher to the core, Mr Saveloy couldn't help correcting them, even at swordpoint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That means, "the glutton dances", not, as you seem to think, "hello, sailor", which is <em class="calibre8">heus nauta</em>,' he said. 'And eunuchs don't say it. Not as a matter of course. Look, it's an <em class="calibre8">honour</em> to be a eunuch in the Forbidden City. Many of them occupy very exalted positions in—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then prepare yourself for high office, teacher!' Truckle shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen knocked the sword out of his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, none of that. I don't like it either,' he said, 'but it's just a disguise. Shouldn't mean anything to a man who once bit a bear's head off, should it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but... you know... it's not... I mean, when we went past those young ladies back there they all giggled...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Maybe later you can find them and make them laugh,' said Cohen. 'But you should've told us, Teach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whatseesay?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said you're a EUNUCH!' Boy Willie bellowed in Hamish's ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep!' said Hamish happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's me! The one an' only!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, he didn't mean—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, never mind. It's all pretty much the same to you, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy surveyed the wrecked gym. 'I wonder what time it is?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' gurgled Six Beneficent Winds, happy to lighten things a little. 'Here, you know, we have an amazing demon-powered device that tells you what the time is even when the sun isn't—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Clocks,' said Mr Saveloy. 'We've got them in Ankh-Morpork. Only demons evaporate eventually so now they work by—' He paused. 'Interesting. You don't have a word for it. Er. Shaped metal that does work? Toothed wheels?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman looked frightened. 'Wheels with teeth?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you call the things that grind corn?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Peasants.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but what do they grind corn with?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. Why should I know? Only peasants need to know <em class="calibre8">that</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I suppose that says it all, really,' said Mr Saveloy sadly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a long way off dawn,' said Truckle. 'Why don't we go and kill everyone in their beds?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, no!' said Mr Saveloy. 'I keep telling you, we've got to do it <em class="calibre8">properly</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could show you the treasure house,' said Six Beneficent Winds helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never a good idea to give a monkey the key to a banana plantation,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Can you think of anything else to keep them amused for an hour?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in the basement, there was a man who was talking about the government. At the top of his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't fight for a cause! A cause is just a thing!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then we are fighting for the peasants,' said Butterfly. She'd backed away. Rincewind's anger was coming off him like steam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? Have you ever met them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I - have seen them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, good! And what is it you want to <em class="calibre8">achieve</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A better life for the people,' said Butterfly coldly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You think you having some uprising and hanging a few people will do it? Well, I come from Ankh-Morpork and we've had more rebellions and civil wars than you've had... lukewarm ducks' feet, and you know what? The rulers are still in charge! They always are!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They smiled at him in polite and nervous incomprehension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look,' he said, rubbing his forehead. 'All those people out in the fields, the water buffalo people... If you have a revolution it'll all be better for them, will it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course,' said Butterfly. 'They will no longer be subject to the cruel and capricious whims of the Forbidden City.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, that's good,' said Rincewind. 'So they'll sort of be in charge of themselves, will they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By means of the People's Committee,' said Butter-fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind pressed both hands to his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word,' he said. 'I don't know why, but I had this predictive flash!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked impressed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I had this sudden feeling,' he went on, 'that there won't be all that many water buffalo string holders on the People's Committee. In fact... I get this kind of... voice telling me that a lot of the People's Committee, correct me if I'm wrong, are standing in front of me right now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Initially</em>, of course,' said Butterfly. 'The peasants can't even read and write.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect they don't even know how to farm properly,' said Rincewind, gloomily. 'Not after doing it for only three or four thousand years.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We certainly believe that there are many improvements that could be made, yes,' said Butterfly. 'If we act collectively.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bet they'll be really glad when you show them,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared glumly at the floor. He quite liked the job of a water buffalo string holder. It sounded nearly as good as the profession of castaway. He longed for the kind of life where you could really <em class="calibre8">concentrate</em> on the squishiness of the mud underfoot, and make up pictures in the clouds; the kind of life where you could let your mind catch up with you and speculate for hours at a time about when your water buffalo was next going to enrich the loam. But it was probably difficult enough as it was without people trying to <em class="calibre8">improve</em> it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wanted to say: how can you be so nice and yet so dumb? The best thing you can do with the peasants is leave them alone. Let them get on with it. When people who can read and write start fighting on behalf of people who can't, you just end up with another kind of stupidity. If you want to help them, build a big library or something somewhere and leave the door open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But this is Hunghung. You can't think like that in Hunghung. This is where people have learned to do what they're told. The Horde worked that one out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Empire's got something worse than whips all right. It's got obedience. Whips in the soul. They obey anyone who tells them what to do. Freedom just means being told what to do by someone different.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You'll all be killed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm a coward. And even ,' know more about fights than you do. I've run away from some really good ones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, let's just get out of here,' he said. He gingerly took the sword from a dead guard and held it the right way round on the second attempt. He weighed it for a second, then shook his head and threw it away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cadre looked a lot happier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I'm not leading you,' said Rincewind. 'I'm just showing you the way. And it's the way <em class="calibre8">out</em>, do you understand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stood wearing rather bruised looks, as people do who've been subject to several minutes' ranting. No-one spoke, until Twoflower whispered:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He often goes on like this, you know. And then he does something very brave.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind snorted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another dead guard at the top of the stairs. Sudden death seemed to be catching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, leaning against the wall, was a bundle of swords. Tied to it was a scroll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Great Wizard has shown us the way for only two minutes and already we have extra luck,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't touch the swords,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But supposing we see more guards? Should we not resist them with every drop of our life's blood?' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked blank. 'No. Run away.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes,' said Twoflower. 'And live to fight another day. That is an Ankh-Morpork saying.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had always assumed that the purpose of running away was to be able to run away another day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'However,' he said, 'people don't usually find themselves mysteriously let out of prison with a bunch of weapons handily close by and all the guards out of action. Ever thought of that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And with a map!' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes shone. She flourished the scroll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a map of the way out?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! To the Emperor's chambers! Look, it has been marked! That's what Herb used to talk about sometimes! He must be in the palace! We should assassinate the Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'More luck!' said Twoflower. 'But look, you know, I'm sure if we talked to him—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haven't you been listening? We are <em class="calibre8">not</em> going to see the Emperor!' hissed Rincewind. 'Does it occur to you that guards don't stab themselves? Cells don't suddenly become unlocked? You don't find swords lying around so conveniently and you don't, you really <em class="calibre8">don't</em> find maps saying "This Way, Folks"! And anyway, you can't talk to someone who's a plate of prawn crackers short of a Set Meal A for Two!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Butterfly. 'We must make the most of this opportunity.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There will be lots of guards!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, Great Wizard, you'll have a lot of wishing to do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You think I can snap my fingers like <em class="calibre8">this</em>, and all the guards would drop dead? Hah! I wish they would!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'These two out here have,' Lotus Blossom reported, from the entrance to the dungeons. She was already in awe of Rincewind. Now she looked positively terrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Coincidence!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's be serious,' said Butterfly. 'We have a sympathizer in the palace. Perhaps it is someone risking their lives every moment! We know some of the eunuchs are on our side.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They've got nothing left to lose, I suppose.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You have a better idea, Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Back into the cells.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This smells wrong. Would you <em class="calibre8">really</em> kill the Emperor? I mean, <em class="calibre8">really</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've often talked about it. Two Fire Herb said that if we could assassinate the Emperor we would light the torch of freedom...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. It'd be you, burning. Look, get back in the cells. It's the safest place. I'll lock you in and... scout.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a very brave suggestion,' said Twoflower. 'And typical of the man,' he added proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly gave Rincewind a look he'd come to dread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It <em class="calibre8">is a</em> good idea,' she said. 'And I will accompany you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, but it's bound to be... very dangerous,' said Rincewind quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No harm can possibly come to me when I'm with the Great Wizard,' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very true. Very true,' said Twoflower. 'No harm ever came to me, I know that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Besides,' his daughter went on, 'I have the map. And it would be dreadful if you lost your way and accidentally strayed out of the Forbidden City, wouldn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave in. It struck him that Twoflower's late wife must have been a remarkably intelligent woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, all right,' he said. 'But you're not to get in the way. And you're to do what I tell you, OK?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly bowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lead on, O Great Wizard,' she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">knew</em> it!' said Truckle. 'Poison!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no. You don't eat it. You rub it on your body,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Watch. And you get what we in civilization call <em class="calibre8">dean</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of the Horde stood waist-deep in the warm water, every man with his hands chastely wrapped around his body. Hamish had refused to relinquish his wheelchair, so only his head was above the surface.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all prickly,' said Cohen. 'And my skin's peeling off and dissolving.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's <em class="calibre8">not</em> skin,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Haven't <em class="calibre8">any</em> of you seen a bath before?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I <em class="calibre8">seen</em> one,' said Boy Willie. 'I killed the Mad Bishop of Pseudopolis in one. You get' - he furrowed his brow - 'bubbles and stuff. And fifteen naked maidens.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Definitely. Fifteen. Remember it well.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's more <em class="calibre8">like</em> it,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All <em class="calibre8">we've</em> got to rub is this soap stuff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Emperor is ritually bathed by twenty-two bath women,' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'I could go and check with the harem eunuchs and wake them up, if you like. It's probably allowable under Entertaining.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman was warming to his new job. He'd worked out that although the Horde, as individuals, had acquired mountains of cash in their careers as barbarian heroes they'd lost almost all of it engaging in the other activities (he mentally catalogued these as Public Relations) necessary to the profession, and therefore were entitled to quite a considerable rebate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fact that they were registered with no revenue collecting authority <em class="calibre8">anywhere</em> was entirely a secondary point. It was the principle that counted. And the interest too, of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no young women, I insist,' said Mr Saveloy. You're having a bath to get clean. Plenty of time for young women later.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gotta date when all this is over,' said Caleb, a little shyly, thinking wistfully of one of the few women he'd ever had a conversation with. 'She's got her own farm, she said. I could be all right for a duck.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bet Teach don't want you to say that,' said Boy Willie. 'I bet he'd say you gotta call it a waterfowl.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Huh, huh, hur!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds sidled over to the teacher as the Horde experimented with the bath oil, initially by drinking it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've worked out what it is you're going to steal,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes?' said Mr Saveloy politely. He was watching Caleb who, having had it brought home to him that he might have been adopting the wrong approach all his life, was trying to cut his nails with his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the legendary Diamond Coffin of Schz Yu!' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Wrong again.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Out of the baths, gentlemen,' said the teacher. 'I think... yes... you've mastered commerce, social intercourse—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—hur, hur, hur... sorry—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and the principles of taxation,' Mr Saveloy went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have we done that? What <em class="calibre8">are</em> they, then?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You take away almost all the money that the merchants have got,' said Six Beneficent Winds, handing him a towel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, is that it? I've been doing that for <em class="calibre8">years</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, you've been taking away <em class="calibre8">all</em> the money,' said Mr Saveloy. 'That's where you go wrong. You kill too many of them, and the ones you don't kill you leave too poor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds <em class="calibre8">frightfully</em> good to me,' said Truckle, excavating the cretaceous contents of an ear. 'Poor merchants, rich us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, no!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, no?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes! That's not <em class="calibre8">civilized</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's like with sheep,' Six Beneficent Winds explained. 'You don't tear their skin off all in one go, you just shear them every year.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde looked blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hunter-gatherers,' said Mr Saveloy, with a touch of hopelessness. 'Wrong metaphor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the marvellous Singing Sword of Wong, isn't it?' whispered Six Beneficent Winds. 'That's what you're going to steal!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. In fact, "steal" is rather the wrong word. Well, anyway, gentlemen... you might not yet be civilized but at least you're nice and clean, and many people think this is identical. Time, I think, for... action.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde straightened up. This was back in the area they understood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'To the Throne Room!' said Ghenghiz Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds wasn't that fast on the uptake, but at last he put two and two together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Emperor!' he said, and raised his hand to his mouth in horror tinged with evil delight. 'You're going to kidnap him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Diamonds glittered when Cohen grinned.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two dead guards in the corridor leading to the private Imperial apartments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, how come you were all taken alive?' whispered Rincewind. 'The guards I saw had big swords. How come you're not dead?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose they planned to torture us,' said Butter-fly 'We did injure ten of them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh? Pasted posters on them, did you? Sang revol-utionary songs until they gave in? Listen, someone <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> you alive.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The floors sang in the darkness. Every footstep produced a chorus of squeaks and groans, just like the floorboards at the University. But you didn't expect that sort of thing in a nice shiny palace like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're called nightingale floors,' said Butterfly. 'The carpenters put little metal collars around the nails so that no-one can creep up unawares.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down at the corpses. Neither man had drawn his sword. He leaned his weight on his left foot. The floor squeaked. Then he leaned on his right foot. The floor groaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This isn't right, then,' he whispered. 'You can't creep up on someone on a floor like this. So someone they <em class="calibre8">knew</em> killed those guards. Let's get out of here...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We go on,' said Butterfly firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a trap. Someone's using you to do their dirty work.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shrugged. 'Turn left by the big jade statue.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was four in the morning, an hour before dawn There were guards in the official staterooms, but not very many. After all, this was well inside the Forbidden City, with its high walls and small gates. It wasn't as though anything was going to happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It needed a special type of mind to stand guard over some empty rooms all night. One Big River had such a mind, orbiting gently within the otherwise blissful emptiness of his skull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd happily called him One Big River because he was the same size and moved at the same speed as the Hung. Everyone had expected him to become a <em class="calibre8">tsimo</em> wrestler, but he'd failed the intelligence test because he hadn't eaten the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was impossible for him to get bored. He just didn't have the imagination. But, since the visor of his huge helmet registered a permanent expression of metal rage, he'd in any case cultivated the art of going to sleep on his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was dozing happily now, aware only of an occasional squeaking, like that of a very cautious mouse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The helmet's visor swung up. A voice said: 'Would you rather die than betray your Emperor?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A second voice said: 'This is not a trick question.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One Big River blinked, and then turned his gaze downwards. An apparition in a squeaky-wheeled wheelchair had a very large sword pointing at exactly that inconvenient place where his upper armour didn't quite meet his lower armour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A third voice said: 'I should add that the last twenty-nine people who answered wrong are... dried shredded fish... sorry, dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A fourth voice said: 'And we're not eunuchs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One Big River rumbled with the effort of thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I tink I rather live,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man with diamonds where his teeth should have been gave him a comradely pat on the shoulder. 'Good man,' he said. 'Join the Horde. We could use a man like you. Maybe as a siege weapon.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who you?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is Ghenghiz Cohen,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Doer of mighty deeds. Slayer of dragons. Ravager of cities. He once bought an apple.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one laughed. Mr Saveloy had found that the Horde had no concept whatsoever of sarcasm. Probably no-one had ever tried it on them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One Big River had been raised to do what he was told. Everyone had told him what to do, all through his life. He fell in behind the man with diamond teeth because he was the sort of man you followed when he said 'follow'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But, you know, there are tens of thousands of men who <em class="calibre8">would</em> die rather than betray their Emperor,' whispered Six Beneficent Winds, as they filed through the corridors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hope so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some of them will be on guard around the For-bidden City. We've avoided them, but they're still there. We'll have to deal with them eventually.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, good!' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bad,' said Mr Saveloy. 'That business with the ninjas was just high spirits—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—high spirits—' murmured Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—but you don't want a big fight out in the open. It'll get messy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen walked over to the nearest wall, which had a gorgeous pattern of peacocks, and took out his knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Paper,' he said. 'Bloody paper. Paper walls.' He poked his head through. There was a shrill whimper. 'Oops, sorry, ma'am. Official wall inspection.' He extracted his head, grinning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you can't go through walls!' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why not?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're - well, they're the <em class="calibre8">walls</em>. What would happen if everyone walked through walls? What do you think doors are for?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think they're for other people,' said Cohen. 'Which way's that throne room?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is lateral thinking,' explained Mr Saveloy, as they followed him. 'Ghenghiz is quite good at a certain kind of lateral thinking.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What a lateral?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. It's a kind of muscle, I believe.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thinking with your muscles... Yes. I see,' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sidled into a space between the wall and a statue of a rather jolly dog with its tongue hanging out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What now?' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How big's the Red Army?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We number many thousands,' said Butterfly, defiantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In Hunghung?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no. There is a cadre in every city.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know that, do you? You've met them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That would be dangerous. Only Two Fire Herb knows how to contact them...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fancy that. Well, do you know what I think? I think someone <em class="calibre8">wants</em> a revolution. And you're all so damn respectful and polite he's having his work cut out trying to organize one! But once you've got rebels you can do <em class="calibre8">anything</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That can't be true...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rebels in other cities, they do great revolutionary deeds, do they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We hear reports all the time!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'From our friend Herb?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're thinking, aren't you?' said Rincewind. 'The old brain cells are finally banging together, yes? Good. Have I convinced you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... don't know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now let's go back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Now I've got to find out if what you're suggesting is true.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dying to find out, eh? Good grief, you people make me so <em class="calibre8">angry</em>. Look, watch this...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind strode to the end of the corridor. There was a pair of wide doors, flanked by a pair of jade dragons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flung them back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room inside was low-ceilinged but large. In the centre, under a canopy, was a bed. It was hard to make out the figure lying there, but it had that certain stillness that suggests the kind of sleep from which there is unlikely to be any kind of awakening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see?' he said. 'He's been... killed... already...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dozen soldiers were staring at Rincewind in amazement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind him he heard the creaking of the floor and then some whooshing sounds followed by a noise like wet leather being hit against rock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at the nearest soldier. The man was holding a sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One drop of blood coursed down the blade and, with a brief pause for dramatic effect, fell on to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked up and raised his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I do beg your pardon,' he said, brightly. 'Isn't this room 3B?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And ran for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The floors screamed under him, and behind him someone screamed Rincewind's nickname, which was: 'Don't let him get away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Let me get away, Rincewind prayed, oh, please, let me get away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slipped as he turned the corner, skidded through a paper wall and landed in an ornamental fish pond. But Rincewind in full flight had catlike, even messianic abilities. The water barely rippled under his feet as he bounced off the surface and headed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another wall erupted and he was in what was possibly the same corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind him, someone landed heavily on a valuable koi.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shot forward again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From; that was the most important factor in any mindless escape. You were always running <em class="calibre8">from. To</em> could look after itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cleared a long flight of shallow stone steps, rolled upright at the bottom and set off at random along another corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His legs had sorted themselves out now. First the mad, wild dash to get you out of immediate danger and then the good solid strides to put as much distance as possible between you and it. That was the trick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">History told of a runner who'd run forty miles after a battle to report its successful outcome to those at home. He was traditionally regarded as the greatest runner of all time, but if he'd been reporting news of an <em class="calibre8">impending</em> battle he'd have been overtaken by Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And yet... someone was gaining.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A knife poked through the wall of the throne room and cut a hole large enough to afford space for an upright man or one wheelchair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was muttering from the Horde.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bruce the Hoon never went in the back way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never one for back gates, Bruce the Hoon.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When Bruce the Hoon attacked Al Khali, he did it right at the main guard tower, with a thousand screaming men on very small horses.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but... last I saw of Bruce the Hoon, his head was on a spike.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, I'll grant you that. But at least it was over the main gate. I mean, at least he got in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'His head did.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, my... '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy was gratified. The room they'd stepped into was enough to silence the Horde, if only briefly. It was large, of course, but that hadn't been its only purpose. One Sun Mirror, as he welded the tribes and countries and little island nations together, had wanted a room built which said to chieftains and ambassadors: this is the biggest space you've ever been in, it is more splendid than anything you could ever imagine, and we've got a lot more rooms like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had wanted it to be impressive. He had very clearly wanted it to intimidate mere barbarians so much that they'd give in there and then. Let there be huge statues, he'd said. And vast decorative hangings. Let there be pillars and carvings. Let the visitor be silenced by the sheer magnificence. Let it say to him, 'This is civilization, and you can join it or die. Now drop to your knees or be shortened some other way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde gave it the benefit of their inspection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally Truckle said, 'It's all right, I suppose, but not a patch on our chieftain's longhouse back in Skund. It hasn't even got a fire in the middle of the floor, look.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gaudy, to my mind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Typically foreign.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd do away with most of this and get some decent straw on the floor, a few shields round the walls.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mind you, get in a few hundred tables and you could have a helluva carouse in here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen walked across the huge expanse towards the throne, which was under a vast ornamental canopy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S got 'n umbrella over it, look.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably the roof leaks. You can't trust tiles. A good reed thatch'll give you forty years bone dry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The throne was lacquered wood, but with many precious gems set in it. Cohen sat down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is this it?' he said. 'We've done it, Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Of course, now you have to get away with it,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry,' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'What've you done?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know that thing we were here to steal?' said the teacher.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Empire.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman's expression didn't change for a few seconds, and then it flowed into a horrified grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think some breakfast is called for before we go any further,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Mr Winds, perhaps you would be so good as to summon someone?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman was still grinning fixedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... but... you can't conquer an empire like this!' he managed. 'You've got to have an army, like the warlords! Just walking in like this... It's against the rules! And... and... there are thousands of guards!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but they're all out there,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Guarding us,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But they're guarding the <em class="calibre8">real</em> Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's me,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh yeah?' said Truckle. 'Who died and made <em class="calibre8">you</em> Emperor?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No-one has to die,' said Mr Saveloy. 'It's called usurping.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right,' said Cohen. 'You just say, see here, Gunga Din, you're out on your ear, OK? Piss off to some island somewhere or—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ghenghiz,' said Mr Saveloy gently, 'do you think you could refrain from referring to foreigners in that rather offensive fashion? It's not civilized.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're still going to have big trouble with the guards and things,' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Maybe not,' said Cohen. 'Tell 'em, Teach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you ever <em class="calibre8">seen</em> the, er, former Emperor?' said Mr Saveloy. 'Mr Winds?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course not. Hardly anyone has seen—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There you are, then,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Very quick on the uptake, Mr Winds. As befits the Lord High Chief Tax Gatherer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it won't work because—' Six Beneficent Winds stopped again. Mr Saveloy's words reached his brain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lord High Chief? Me? The black hat <em class="calibre8">with</em> the red ruby button?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And a feather in it, if you like,' said Cohen munificently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The taxman looked in rapt consideration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So... if there was, say, a mere District Administrator who was incredibly cruel to his staff, particularly to a hard-working deputy, and thoroughly deserving of a good sound thrashing—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As the Lord High Chief Tax Gatherer, of course, that would be entirely your affair.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds' grin now threatened to remove the top of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On the subject of new taxation,' he said, 'I've often had this thought that fresh air is all too readily available at far below the cost of production—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We will listen to your ideas with extreme interest,' said Mr Saveloy. 'In the meantime, please arrange breakfast.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And have summoned,' said Cohen, 'all those buggers who think they know what the Emperor looks like.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The pursuer was closing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind skidded around a corner and there, blocking the passageway, were three guards. These were not dead. They were alive, and they had got swords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone cannoned into the back of him, pushed him to the ground, and leapt past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shut his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a couple of thumps, a groan, and then a very strange metallic noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a helmet, spinning round and round on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was pulled to his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you going to lie around all day?' said Butterfly. 'Come on. They're not far behind!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind glanced at the recumbent guards, and then loped after the girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How many of them are there?' he managed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seven now. But two of them are limping and one's having trouble breathing. Come <em class="calibre8">on</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You <em class="calibre8">hit</em> them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you always waste breath like this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never found anyone who could keep up with me before!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned a corner and almost ran into another guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly didn't even stop. She took a ladylike step, whirled around on one foot, and kicked the man so hard on his ear that he spun on his own axis and landed on his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She paused, panted, and tucked a hair back into place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We should split up,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no!' said Rincewind. 'I mean, I must protect you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll head back to the others. You lead the guards away somewhere—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you <em class="calibre8">all</em> do that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course,' said Butterfly, testily. 'I <em class="calibre8">told</em> you we fought the guards. 'Now, if we split up one of us is bound to escape. The murderers! We were supposed to take the blame for that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't I try to tell you? I thought you <em class="calibre8">wanted</em> him dead!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but we're rebels. They were palace guards!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No time. See you in Heaven.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She darted away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around. It had all gone quiet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guards appeared at the end of the corridor, but cautiously, as befitted people who'd just met Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it her?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, it's him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He accelerated again, rounded a corner, and found that he was in a cul-de-sac that would undoubtedly, given the sounds behind, become a dead end. But there was a pair of doors. He kicked them open, ran inside, and slowed...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The space inside was dark, but the sound and air suggested a large space and a certain flatulent component indicated some kind of stable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was some light, though, from a fire. Rincewind trotted towards it and saw that it was under a huge cauldron, man-sized, full of boiling rice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now that his eyes were accustomed to the gloom he realized that there were shapes lying on slabs along both walls of an enormous room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were snoring gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were, in fact, people. They might even have been humans, or at least had humans in their ancestry before someone, hundreds of years ago, had said, 'Let's see how big and fat we can breed people. Let's try for really big bastards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Each giant frame was dressed in what looked like a nappy to Rincewind's eyes and was dozing happily alongside a bowl holding enough rice to explode twenty people, just in case it woke up in the night and felt like a light snack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of his pursuers appeared in the doorway, and stopped. Then they advanced, but very cautiously, carefully watching the gently moving mounds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oi, oi, oi!' shouted Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men stopped and stared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wakey wakey! Let's see the rising sons!' He grabbed a mighty ladle and banged it on the rice cauldron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Up you get! Hands off - er - whatever you can find and on with socks!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sleepers stirred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooorrrrr?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ooooaaaoooooor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room shook as forty tree-trunk legs swung off the slabs. Flesh rearranged itself so that, in the gloom, Rincewind appeared to be being watched by twenty small pyramids.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haaaroooooohhhh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Those men,' said Rincewind, pointing desperately at his pursuers, who were slowly backing away, 'those men have a pork sandwich!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oorrry orrraaah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooorrrr?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'With mustard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooorrrr!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twenty very small heads turned. A total of eighty specialized neurones fired into life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the floor shook. The wrestlers started to move hopefully towards the men, in a slow but deliberate run designed to be halted only by collision with another wrestler or a continent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooorrr!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind dashed for the far door and burst through it. A couple of men were sitting in a small room drinking tea and playing <em class="calibre8">shibo</em>, watched by a third.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The wrestlers are wrestless!' he shouted. 'I think you've got a stampede going on!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man threw down his <em class="calibre8">shibo</em> tiles. 'Blast! And it's been at least an hour since they were fed!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men grabbed various nets and prods and items of protective clothing, leaving Rincewind alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another door. He sashayed through it. He'd never essayed a sashay before, but he reckoned he was due a sashay for quick thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another passage. He ran down it, on the basis that absence of pursuit is no reason to stop running.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was folding paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was an expert at it because when he did it he gave it his full attention. Lord Hong had a mind like a knife, although possibly a knife with a curved blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door slid aside. A guard, red in the face from running, threw himself on to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'O Lord Hong, who is exalted—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Lord Hong distantly, essaying a taxing crease. 'What has gone wrong this time?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I asked you what has gone wrong.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh... we killed the Emperor <em class="calibre8">as</em> directed—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By whom?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My lord! You commanded it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did I?' said Lord Hong, folding the paper lengthwise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard shut his eyes. He had a vision, a very short vision, of the future. There was a spike in it. He carried on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But the... prisoners can't be found anywhere, lord! We heard someone approach and then... well, we saw two people, lord. We're chasing them. But the others have vanished.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No slogans? No revolutionary posters? No <em class="calibre8">culprits</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I see. Remain here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong's hands continued with the folding as he looked at the room's other occupant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You have something to say, Two Fire Herb?' he said pleasantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The revolutionary leader looked sheepish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Red Army has been quite expensive,' said Lord Hong. 'The printing costs alone... And you cannot say I have not helped you. We unlocked the doors and killed the guards and gave your wretched people swords and a map, did we not? And now I can hardly claim that they killed the Emperor, may he stay dead for ten thousand years, when there is no sign of them. People will ask too many questions. I can hardly kill <em class="calibre8">everyone</em>. And we appear to have some barbarians in the building, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something must have gone wrong, my lord.' Herb was hypnotized by the moving hands as they caressed that paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What a pity. I do not like it when things go wrong. Guard? Redeem your miserable self. Take him away. I will have to try a different plan.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My lord!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Two Fire Herb?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When you... when we agreed... when it was agreed that the Red Army should be turned over to vou, you did promise me indemnity.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. I recall. I said, did I not, that I would neither say nor write any order for your death? And I must keep my word, otherwise what am I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He folded the last crease and opened his hands, putting the little paper decoration on the lacquered table beside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Herb and the guard stared at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Guard... take him away,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a marvellously constructed paper figure of a man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there didn't seem to have been enough paper for a head.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The immediate court turned out to be about eighty men, women and eunuchs, in various states of sleeplessness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were astonished at what sat on the throne.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde were quite astonished at the court.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who're all them vinegar-faced old baggages at the front?' whispered Cohen, who was idly tossing a throwing knife into the air and catching it again. 'I wouldn't even set fire to them.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're the wives of former Emperors,' hissed Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We don't have to marry them, do we?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't think so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why're their feet so small?' said Cohen. 'I like to see big feet on a woman.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds told him. Cohen's expression hardened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm learning a lot about civilization, I am,' he said. 'Long fingernails, crippled feet and servants running around without their family jewels. Huh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is going on here, pray?' said a middle-aged man. 'Who are you? Who are these old eunuchs?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who're you?' said Cohen. He drew his sword. 'I need to know so's it can be put on your gravestone—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wonder if I might effect some introductions at this point?' said Mr Saveloy. He stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This,' he said, 'is Ghenghiz Cohen - put it away, Ghenghiz - who is technically a barbarian, and this is his Horde. They have overrun your city. And you are—?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Barbarian invaders?' said the man haughtily, ignoring him. 'Barbarian invaders come in their thousands! Big screaming men on little horses!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">told</em> you,' said Truckle. 'But would anyone listen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—and there is fire, terror, rapine, looting and blood in the streets!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We haven't had breakfast yet,' said Cohen, tossing his knife into the air again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! I would rather die than submit to such as you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged. 'Why didn't you say earlier?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oops,' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a very accurate throw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who <em class="calibre8">was</em> he, anyway?' said Cohen, as the body folded up. 'Anyone know who he was?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ghenghiz,' said Mr Saveloy, 'I've kept meaning to tell you: when people say they'd rather die, they don't really <em class="calibre8">mean</em> they'd rather die. Not always.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why'd they say it, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the done thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is this civilization again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's settle this once and for all, shall we?' said Cohen. He stood up. 'Hands up those who'd rather die than have me as Emperor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind trotted along another passage. Was there no outside to this place? Several times he thought he'd found an exit, but it led only to a courtyard within the huge building, filled with tinkling fountains and willow trees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the place was waking up. There were—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—running steps behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice shouted, 'Hey—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dived for the nearest door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room beyond was full of steam. It roiled in great billowing clouds. He could dimly make out a figure toiling at the huge wheel and the words 'torture chamber' crossed his mind until the smell of soap replaced them with the word 'laundry'. Rather wan but incredibly clean figures looked up from their vats and watched him with barely a hint of interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They did not look like people in close touch with current events.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He half ran, half sauntered between the bubbling cauldrons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Keep it up. Good man. That's it, scrub, scrub, scrub. Let me see those wringers wringing. Well done. Is there another door out of here? Good bubbles there, very good bubbles. Ah...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the laundry workers, who appeared to be in charge, gave him a suspicious glare and seemed to be about to say something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind dodged through a courtyard crisscrossed with washing lines and stopped, panting, with his back to a wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Although it was against his general principles, it was perhaps time to stop and think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were chasing him. That is to say, they were chasing a running figure in a faded red robe and a very charred pointy hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took a great effort for Rincewind to come to terms with the idea, but it was just possible that if he was <em class="calibre8">wearing something else</em> he might not be chased.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the line in front of him, shirts and trousers flapped in the breeze. Their construction was to tailoring in the same way that woodchopping is to carpentry. Someone had mastered the art of the tube, and left it at that. They looked just like the clothes nearly everyone wore in Hunghung.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The palace was almost a city in its own right, said the voice of reason. It must be full of people on all sorts of errands, it added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would mean... taking off our hat, it added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated. It would be hard for a non-wizard to grasp the enormity of the suggestion. A wizard would sooner go without his robe and trousers than forgo his hat. Without his hat, people might think he was an <em class="calibre8">ordinary person</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was shouting in the distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice of reason could see that if it wasn't careful it was going to end up as dead as the rest of Rincewind and added sarcastically: all right, keep our wretched hat. Our damn hat is why we're in this mess in the first place. Perhaps you think you're going to have a head left to wear it on?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's hands, also aware that times were going to be extremely interesting and very short unless they took matters into themselves, reached out slowly and removed a pair of pants and a shirt and rammed them inside his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door burst open. There were <em class="calibre8">still</em> guards behind him, and a couple of the <em class="calibre8">tsimo</em> herders had joined in the chase. One of them waved a prod in Rincewind's direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He plunged towards an archway and out into a garden.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had a little pagoda. It had willow trees, and a pretty lady on a bridge feeding the birds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And a man painting a plate.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen rubbed his hands together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No-one? Good. That's all sorted, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small man at the front of the crowd made a great play of keeping his hands to himself, but said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, but... what would happen in the hypothetical situation of us calling the guards and denouncing you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'd kill you all before they were halfway through the door,' said Cohen, matter of factly. 'Any more questions?' he added, to a chorus of gasps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... the Emperor... that is to say, the <em class="calibre8">last</em> Emperor... had some very special guards...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tinkling sound. Something small and multi-pointed rolled down the steps and spun round on the floor. It was a throwing star.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Met them,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine, fine,' said the little man. 'That all seems in order. Ten Thousand Years to the Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shout was taken up, a little raggedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's your name, young man?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Four Big Horns, my lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very good. Very good. I can see that you will go a long way. What is your job?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am Grand Assistant to the Lord Chamberlain, my lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Which one of you is the Lord Chamberlain?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Four Big Horns pointed to the man who had preferred to die.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There we are, you see,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Promotion comes fast to adaptable people, Lord Chamberlain. And now, the Emperor will breakfast.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what-is his pleasure?' said the new Lord Chamberlain, endeavouring to look bright and adaptable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All sorts of things. But right now, big lumps of meat and lots of beer. You will find the Emperor very easy to cater for.' Mr Saveloy smiled the knowing little smile he sometimes smiled when he knew he was the only one seeing the joke. 'The Emperor doesn't favour what he calls "fiddly foreign muck full of eyeballs and suchlike" and much prefers simple, wholesome food like sausages, which are made of miscellaneous animal organs minced up in a length of intestine. Ahaha. But if you want to please him, just keep up the big lumps of meat. Isn't that so, my lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen had been gazing at the assembled courtiers. When you've survived for ninety years all the attacks that can be thrown at you by men, women, trolls, dwarfs, giants, green things with lots of legs and, on one occasion, an enraged lobster, you can learn a lot by looking at faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Eh?' said Cohen. 'Oh. Yep. Right enough. Big lumps. Here, Mr Taxman... what do these people <em class="calibre8">do</em> all day?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What would you like them to do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd like them to bugger off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, my lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'[Complicated pictogram],' said Mr Saveloy. The new Lord Chamberlain looked a little startled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, <em class="calibre8">here</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a figure of speech, lad. He just means he wants everyone to go away quickly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The court scurried out. A sufficiently complicated pictogram is worth a thousand words.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">After the stampede the artist Three Solid Frogs got to his feet, retrieved his brush from his nostril, pulled his easel out of a tree, and tried to think placid thoughts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The garden was not what it had been.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The willow tree was bent. The pagoda had been demolished by an out-of-control wrestler, who had eaten the roof. The doves had flown. The little bridge had been broken. His model, the concubine Jade Fan, had run off crying after she'd managed to scramble out of the ornamental pond.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">And</em> someone had stolen his straw hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three Solid Frogs adjusted what remained of his dress and endeavoured to compose himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The plate with his sketch on had been smashed, of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled another one out of his bag and reached for his palette.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a huge footprint in the middle of it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wanted to cry. He'd had such a <em class="calibre8">good</em> feeling about this picture. He just <em class="calibre8">knew</em> it would be one that people would remember for a long time. And the colours? Did anyone <em class="calibre8">understand</em> how much vermilion cost these days?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled himself together. So there was only blue left. Well, he'd show them...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to ignore the devastation in front of him and concentrated on the picture in his mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let me see, now,' he thought. 'Jade Fan being pursued over a bridge by man waving his arms and screaming, "Get out of the way!" followed by man with prod, three guards, five laundry men and a wrestler unable to stop.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had to simplify it a bit, of course.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The pursuers rounded a corner, except for the wrestler, who wasn't built for such a difficult manoeuvre.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where'd he go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were in a courtyard. There were pigsties on one side, and middens on the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, in the middle of the courtyard, a pointy hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the guards reached out and grabbed a colleague's arm before the man stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Steady now,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's just a hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So where's the rest of him? He couldn't have just... disappeared... into...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You heard about him too?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They said he blew a hole in the wall just by waving his hands!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's nothing! I heard he appeared on an invisible dragon up in the mountains!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What shall we tell Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't want to be blown to pieces!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I</em> don't want to tell Lord Hong we lost him. We're in enough trouble already. And I've only just paid for this helmet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... we could take the hat. That'd be evidence.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. You pick it up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me? <em class="calibre8">You</em> pick it up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It might be surrounded by terrible spells.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? So it's all right for <em class="calibre8">me</em> to touch it? Thank you! Get one of them to pick it up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The laundry men backed away, the Hunghungese habit of obedience evaporating like morning dew. The soldiers weren't the only ones to have heard rumours.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not us!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got a rush order for socks!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard turned. A peasant was stumbling out of one of the pigsties, carrying a sack, his face covered by his big straw hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man dropped to his knees and banged his head on the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't kill me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards exchanged a glance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We ain't going to kill you,' said one of them. 'We just want you to try and pick up that hat over there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What hat, o mighty warrior?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That hat there! Right now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man crawled crabwise across the cobbles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This hat, o great lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man's fingers crept over the stones and prodded the hat's ragged brim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your wife is a big hippo! My face is melting! My race is meltinnnnggg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind waited until the sound of fleeing sandals had quite faded, and then stood up, dusted off his hat, and put it in the sack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That had gone a lot better than he'd expected. So there was another valuable thing to know about the Empire: no-one looked at peasants. It must be the clothes and the hat. No-one but the common people dressed like that, so anyone dressed like that must be a common person. It was the advertising principle of a wizard's hat, but in reverse. You were careful and polite around people in a pointy hat, in case they took a very physical offence, whereas someone in a big straw hat was a suitable target for a 'Hey, you!' and a—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was at exactly this point that someone behind him shouted, 'Hey, you!' and hit Rincewind across the shoulders with a stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The irate face of a servant appeared in front of him. The man waved a finger in front of Rincewind's nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You are late! You are a bad man! Get inside right now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stick hit Rincewind again. The servant pointed at a distant doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Insolence! Shame! Go to work!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's brain prepared the words: Oh, so we think we're Clever-san just because we've got a big stick, do we? Well, I happen to be a great wizard and you know what you can do with your big stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere between the brain and his mouth they became:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yessir! Right away!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde were left alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, gentlemen, we did it,' said Mr Saveloy eventually. 'You have the world on a plate.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All the treasure we want,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's not hang around, then,' said Truckle. 'Let's get some sacks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's no <em class="calibre8">point</em>,' said Mr Saveloy. 'You'd only be stealing from yourselves. This is an <em class="calibre8">Empire</em>. You don't just shove it in a bag and divvy it up at the next campfire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about the ravishing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy sighed. There are, I understand, three hundred concubines in the imperial harem. I'm sure they will be very pleased to see you, although matters will be improved if you take your boots off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old men wore the puzzled look such as might be worn by fish trying to understand the concept of the bicycle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We ought to take just small stuff,' said Boy Willie at last. 'Rubies and emeralds, for preference.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And chuck a match on the place as we go out,' said Vincent. 'These paper walls and all this lacquered wood should go up a treat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no, no!' said Mr Saveloy. 'The vases in this room alone are priceless!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nah, too big to carry. Can't get 'em onna horse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I've shown you civilization!' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah. It's all right to visit. Ain't that so, Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen was hunched down in the throne, glaring at the far wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm saying we take everything we can carry and head off back home, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Home... yeah...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was the Plan, yeah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen didn't look at Mr Saveloy's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah... the Plan...' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a good plan,' said Truckle. 'Great idea. You move in as boss? Fine. Great scam. Saves trouble. None of that fiddling with locks and things. So we'll all be off home, OK? With all the treasure we can carry?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What for?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What for? It's <em class="calibre8">treasure</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen seemed to reach a decision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What did you spend your last haul on, Truckle? You said you got three sacks of gold and gems from that haunted castle.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle looked puzzled, as if Cohen had asked what purple smelled like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Spend it on? ,' dunno. You know how it is. What's it matter what you spend it on? It's <em class="calibre8">loot</em>. Anyway... what do you spend yours on?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle gaped at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're not thinking of <em class="calibre8">really</em> staying here?' He glared at Mr Saveloy. 'Have you two been cooking up something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen drummed his fingers on the arm of the throne. 'You said go home,' he said. 'Where to?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... wherever...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And Hamish there—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean... he's a hundred and five, right? Time to settle down, maybe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Settle down?' said Truckle. '<em class="calibre8">You</em> tried it once. Stole a farm and said you was goin' to raise pigs! Gave it up after... What was it?... three hours?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whutzeesayin'? Whutzeesayin'?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said IT'S TIME YOU SETTLED DOWN, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bugrthat!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The kitchens were in uproar. Half the court had ended up there, in most cases for the first time. The place was as crowded as a street market, through which the servants tried to go about their business as best they could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fact that one of them seemed a little unclear as to what his business actually consisted of was quite unnoticed in the turmoil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you <em class="calibre8">smell</em> him?' said Lady Two Streams. 'The <em class="calibre8">stink</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like a hot day in a pig yard!' said Lady Peach Petal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I'm</em> pleased to say I have never experienced that,' said Lady Two Streams haughtily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Jade Night, who was rather younger than the other two, and who had been rather attracted to Cohen's smell of unwashed lion, said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The head cook said: 'Just that? Big lumps? Why doesn't he just eat a cow while he's about it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You wait till you hear about this devil food called <em class="calibre8">sausage</em>,' said the Lord Chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Big lumps.' The cook was almost in tears. 'Where's the skill in big lumps of meat? Not even sauce? I'd rather die than simply heat up big lumps of meat!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said the new Lord Chamberlain, 'I should think very carefully about that. The new Emperor, may he have a bath for ten thousand years, tends to interpret that as a request—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The babble of voices stopped. The cause of the sudden silence was one small, sharp noise. It was a cork, popping.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong had a Grand Vizier's talent for apparently turning up out of nowhere. His gaze swept the kitchens. It was certainly the only housework that he had ever done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped forward. He'd taken a small black bottle from out of the sleeve of his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bring me the meat,' he said. 'The sauce will take care of itself.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The assembled people watched with horrified interest. Poison was all part of the Hunghungese court etiquette but people generally did it while hidden from sight somewhere, out of good manners.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is there anyone,' said Lord Hong, 'who has anything they would like to say?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His gaze was like a scythe. As it swung around the room people wavered, and hesitated, and fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very well,' said Lord Hong. 'I would rather die than see a... <em class="calibre8">barbarian</em> on the Imperial throne. Let him have his... big lumps. Bring me the meat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was movement in the ground, and the sound of shouting and the thump of a stick. A peasant scuttled forward, reluctantly wheeling a huge covered dish on a trolley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the sight of Lord Hong he pushed the trolley aside, flung himself forward and grovelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I avert my gaze from your... an orchard in a favourable position... <em class="calibre8">damn</em>... countenance, o lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong prodded the prone figure with his foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is good to see the arts of respect maintained,' he observed. 'Remove the lid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man got up and, still bowing and ducking, lifted the cover.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong upended the bottle and held it there until the last drop had hissed out. His audience was transfixed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now let it be taken to the barbarians,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly, your celestial... ink brush... willow frond... righteousness.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where are you from, peasant?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bes Pelargic, o lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. I thought so.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The big bamboo doors slid back. The new Lord Chamberlain stepped in, followed by a caravan of trolleys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Breakfast, o lord of a thousand years,' he said. 'Big lumps of pig, big lumps of goat, big lumps of ox and seven fried rice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the servants lifted the lid of a dish. 'But take my tip and don't go for this pork,' he said. 'It's been poisoned.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Chamberlain spun around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Insolent pig! You will die for this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's Rincewind, isn't it?' said Cohen. '<em class="calibre8">Looks</em> like Rincewind—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got my hat here somewhere,' said Rincewind. 'Had to stuff it down my trousers—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poison?' said Cohen. 'You sure?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, OK, it was a black bottle and it had a skull and crossbones on it and when he tipped it out it smoked,' said Rincewind, as Mr Saveloy helped him up. 'Was it anchovy essence? I don't <em class="calibre8">think</em> so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poison,' said Cohen. 'I <em class="calibre8">hate</em> poisoners. Just about the worst sort, poisoners. Creeping around, putting muck in a man's grub...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glared at the Chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was it you?' He looked at Rincewind and jerked a thumb towards the cowering Chamberlain. 'Was it him? Because if it was he's going to get done to him what I did to the mad Snake Priests of Start, and this time I'll use both thumbs!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Rincewind. 'It was someone they called Lord Hong. But they all watched him do it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A little scream erupted from the Lord Chamberlain. He threw himself to the floor and was about to kiss Cohen's foot until he realized that this would have about the same effect as eating the pork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mercy, o celestial being! We are all pawns in the hands of Lord Hong!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's so special about Lord Hong, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's... a fine man!' the Chamberlain gibbered. 'I won't say a word against Lord Hong! I certainly don't believe it's true that he has spies everywhere! Long life to Lord Hong, that's what I say!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He risked looking up and found the point of Cohen's sword just in front of his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but right now who're you more frightened of? Me or this Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh... Lord Hong!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen raised an eyebrow. 'I'm impressed. Spies everywhere, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around the huge room and his gaze came to rest on a very large vase. He sauntered over to it and raised the lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You OK in there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes?' said a voice from the depths of the vase.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got everythin' you want? Spare notebook? Potty?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you like, oh, let's say about sixty gallons of boiling water?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... no?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you rather die than betray Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... can I have a moment to think about it, please?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No problem. It takes a long time to heat the water in any case. As you were, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He replaced the lid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One Big Mother?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's One Big <em class="calibre8">River</em>, Ghenghiz,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard rumbled into life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just you watch this vase and if it moves again you do to it what I once did to the Green Necromancer of the Night, all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know what that was you did, lord,' said the soldier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen told him. One Big River beamed. From inside the jar came the noise of someone trying not to be sick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen strolled back to the throne.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So tell me a bit more about Lord Hong, then,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's the Grand Vizier,' said the Chamberlain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen and Rincewind looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right. And everyone knows,' said Rincewind, 'that Grand Viziers are <em class="calibre8">always</em>—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—complete and utter bastards,' said Cohen. 'Dunno why. Give 'em a turban with a point in the middle and their moral wossname just gets eaten away. I always kill 'em soon as I meet 'em. Saves time later on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">thought</em> there was something fishy about him as soon as I saw him,' said Rincewind. 'Look, Cohen—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's <em class="calibre8">Emperor</em> Cohen to you,' said Truckle. 'I've never trusted wizards, mister. Never trusted any man in a dress.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rincewind's all right—' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you!' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—but a bloody useless wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just happened to risk my neck to save you, thank you so very much,' said Rincewind. 'Look, some friends of mine are in the prison block. Could you... <em class="calibre8">Emperor</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sort of,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Temp'ry,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Technically,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does that mean you can get my friends somewhere safe? I think Lord Hong has murdered the old Emperor and wants them to take the blame. I'm rust hoping he won't believe they'll be hiding in the cells.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why in the cells?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because if I had the chance to get away from Lord Hong's cells I would,' said Rincewind, fervently. 'No-one in their right minds'd go back inside if they thought they had a chance to get away.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'OK,' said Cohen. 'Boy Willie, One Big Mother, go and round up some of your mates and bring those people here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here?' said Rincewind. 'I wanted them to be somewhere safe!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">we're</em> here,' said Cohen. 'We can protect 'em.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's going to protect you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen ignored this. 'Lord Chamberlain,' he said, 'I don't 'spect Lord Hong'll be around but... in the court was a guy with a nose like a badger. A fat bugger, he was, with a big pink hat. And a skinny woman with a face like a hatful of pins.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That would be Lord Nine Mountains and Lady Two Streams,' said the Lord Chamberlain. 'Er. You are not angry with me, o lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gods bless you, no,' said Cohen. 'In fact, mister, I'm so impressed I'm going to give you extra responsibilities.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Food taster, for a start. And now go and fetch them other two. Didn't like the look of them at <em class="calibre8">all</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nine Mountains and Two Streams were ushered in a few moments later. Their merest glance from Cohen to the untouched food would have passed entirely unnoticed by those who weren't watching for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded cheerfully at them. 'Eat it,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My lord! I had a large breakfast! I am entirely full!' said Nine Mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a pity,' said Cohen. 'One Big Mother, before you go off just see Mr Nine Mountains over there and make some room in him so he can have another breakfast. The same goes for the lady, too, if I don't hear chomping in the next five seconds, A good mouthful of everything, understand? With lots of sauce.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One Big River drew his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two nobles stared fixedly at the glistening mounds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks good to me,' said Cohen conversationally. 'The way <em class="calibre8">you're</em> looking at it, any one'd think there was something wrong with it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nine Mountains gingerly put a piece of pork into his mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Extremely good,' he said, indistinctly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now <em class="calibre8">swallow</em>,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mandarin gulped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Marvellous,' he said. 'And nnw, if your excellency will excuse me, I—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't rush off,' said Cohen. 'We don't want you accidentally sticking your fingers down your throat or anything like that, do we?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nine Mountains hiccuped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he hiccuped again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Smoke appeared to be rising from the bottom of his robe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde dived for cover just as the explosion removed an area of floorboards, a circular part of the ceiling and all of Lord Nine Mountains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A black hat with a ruby button on it spun around on the floor for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's just like me and pickled onions,' said Vincent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Two Streams was standing with her eyes shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not hungry?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen leaned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One Big Mother?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's "River", Cohen,' said Mr Saveloy, as the guard lumbered forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take her with you and put her in one of the dungeons. See that she has plenty to eat, if you know what I mean.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, excellency.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And Mr Chamberlain here can push off down to the kitchen again and tell the chef <em class="calibre8">he's</em> going to share what we eat this time, and he's gonna eat it <em class="calibre8">first</em>, all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed, excellency.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Call this living?' Caleb burst out, as the Lord Chamberlain scuttled away. 'This is being Emperor, is it? Can't even trust the food? We'll probably be murdered in our beds!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't see <em class="calibre8">you</em> being murdered in your bed,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, 'cos you're never in it,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked over to the big jar and gave it a kick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You getting all this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yessir,' said the jar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was some laughter. But it had an edge of nervousness. Mr Saveloy realized that the Horde weren't used to this. If a true barbarian wanted to kill someone during a meal, he'd invite him in with all his henchmen, sit them down, get them drunk and sleepy and then summon his own men from hiding places to massacre them instantly in a straight-forward, no-nonsense and honourable manner. It was completely fair. The 'get them drunk and butcher the lot of them' stratagem was the oldest trick in the book, or would have been if barbarians bothered with books. Anyone falling for it would be doing the world a favour by being slaughtered over the pudding. But at least you could trust the <em class="calibre8">food</em>. Barbarians didn't poison food. You never knew when you might be short of a mouthful yourself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, your excellency,' said Six Beneficent Winds, who had been hovering, 'I think Lord Truckle is right. Er. I know a little history. The correct method of succession is to wade to the throne through seas of blood. That is what Lord Hong is planning to do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You say? Seas of blood, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or over a mountain of skulls. That's an option, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... but... I thought the Imperial crown was handed down from father to son,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes,' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'I suppose that could happen in theory.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You said once we were at the top of the pyramid every one'd do what we said,' said Cohen to Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle looked from one to the other. 'You two <em class="calibre8">planned</em> this?' he said accusingly. 'This is what it's all been about, isn't it? All that learnin' to be civilized? And right at the start you just said it was going to be a really big theft! Eh? I thought we were just going to nick a load of stuff and push off! Loot and pillage, that's the way—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, loot and pillage, loot and pillage, I've had it up to here with loot and pillage!' said Mr Saveloy. 'Is that all you can think of, looting and pillaging?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there used to be ravishing, too,' said Vincent wistfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hate to tell you, but they've got a point, Teach,' said Cohen. 'Fightin' and lootin'... that's what we do. I ain't happy with all this bowing and scraping business. I ain't sure if I was cut out for civilization.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy rolled his eyes. 'Even you, Cohen? You're all so... <em class="calibre8">dim-witted</em>!' he snapped. 'I don't know why I bother! I mean, look at you! You know what you are? You're legends!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde stepped back. No-one had ever seen Teach lose his temper before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'From <em class="calibre8">legendum</em>, which means "something written down",' said Mr Saveloy. 'Books, you know. Reading and writing. Which incidentally is as alien to you as the Lost City of Ee—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle's hand went up, a little nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Actually, I once discovered the Lost City of—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up! I'm saying... What was I saying?... yes... you don't read, do you? You never learned to read? Then you've wasted half your life. You could have been accumulating pearls of wisdom instead of rather shoddy gems. It's just as well people read about you and don't meet you face to face because, gentlemen, you are a big disappointment!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind watched, fascinated, waiting for Mr Saveloy to have his head cut off. But this didn't seem about to happen. He was possibly too angry to be beheaded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What have you actually <em class="calibre8">done</em>, gentlemen? And don't tell me about stolen jewels and demon lords. What have you done that's <em class="calibre8">real</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle raised a hand again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I once killed all four of the—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, yes,' said Mr Saveloy. 'You killed <em class="calibre8">this</em> and you stole <em class="calibre8">that</em> and you defeated the giant man-eating avocados of somewhere else, but... it's all... <em class="calibre8">stuff</em>. It's just wallpaper, gentlemen! It never changes anything! No-one cares! Back in Ankh-Morpork I've taught boys who think you are myths. That's what you've achieved. They don't believe you ever really existed. They think someone made you up. You're <em class="calibre8">stories</em>, gentlemen. When you die no-one will know, because they think you're already dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused for breath, and then continued more slowly. 'But here... here you <em class="calibre8">could</em> be real. You could stop playing at your lives. You could take this ancient and somewhat rotten Empire back into the world. At least...' he trailed off. 'That's what I'd hoped. I really thought that, perhaps, we might actually achieve something...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde stood staring at its various feet or wheels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um. Can I say something? The warlords will all be against you,' said Six Beneficent Winds. 'They're out there now, with their armies. Normally they'd fight amongst themselves, but they'll <em class="calibre8">all</em> fight you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They'd rather have some poisoner like this Hong instead of me?' said Cohen. 'But he's a bastard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but... he's <em class="calibre8">their</em> bastard, you see.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We could hold out here. This place has got thick walls,' said Vincent. 'The ones not made of paper, that is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't think about that,' said Truckle. 'Not a siege. Sieges are messy. I hate eating boots and rats.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said WE DON'T WANT A SIEGE WHERE WE HAVE TO EAT BOOTS AND RATS, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Run outa legs, have we?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How many soldiers have they got?' said Cohen. 'I think... six or seven hundred thousand,' said the taxman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse us,' said Cohen, getting off the throne. 'I have to join my Horde.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde went into a huddle. There was an occasional 'Whut?' in the hoarse whispered interchanges. Then Cohen turned round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seas of blood, wasn't it?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes,' said the taxman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The huddle resumed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After some further exchanges Truckle's head poked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you say <em class="calibre8">mountain</em> of skulls?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Yes, I think that's what I said,' said the taxman. He glanced nervously at Rincewind and Mr Saveloy, who shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper, whisper, Whut...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'About how big a mountain? Skulls don't pile up that well.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know how big a mountain! A lot of skulls!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just checking.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde seemed to reach a decision. They turned to face the other men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're going to fight,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, you should have said all that about skulls and Hood before,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'll show ye whether we'm dead or not!' cackled Hamish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think you must have misheard. The odds are a hundred thousand to one!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon <em class="calibre8">that'll</em> show people we're still alive,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but the whole point of my plan was to show you that you could get to the top of the pyramid without having to fight your way up,' said Mr Saveloy. 'It really is possible in such a stale society. But if you try to fight hundreds of thousands of men you'll <em class="calibre8">die</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, to his surprise, he found himself adding: 'Probably.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde grinned at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Big odds don't frighten us,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We <em class="calibre8">like</em> big odds,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Y'see, Teach, odds of a thousand to one ain't a lot worse than ten to one,' said Cohen. 'The reasons bein'—' He counted on his fingers. 'One, your basic soldier who's fightin' for pay rather than his life ain't goin' to stick <em class="calibre8">his</em> neck out when there's all these other blokes around who might as well do the business, and, two, not very many of 'em are goin' to be able to get near us at one time and they'll all be pushin' and shovin', and...' He looked at his fingers with an expression of terminal calculation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... Three...' said Mr Saveloy, hypnotized by this logic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... three, right... Half the time when they swings their swords they'll hit one of their mates, savin' us a bit of effort. See?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But even if that were true it'd only work for a little while,' Mr Saveloy protested. 'Even if you killed as many as two hundred you'd be tired and there'd be fresh troops attacking you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, they'd be tired too,' said Cohen cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because by then, to get to us, they'd have to be running uphill.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's logic, that is,' said Truckle, approvingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen slapped the shaken teacher on the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you worry about a thing,' he said. 'If we've got the Empire by your kind of plan, we'll keep it by <em class="calibre8">our</em> kind of plan. You've shown us civilization, so we'll show you barbarism.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked a few steps and then turned, an evil glint in his eye. 'Barbarism? Hah! When we kills people we do it there and then, lookin' 'em in the eye, and we'd be happy to buy 'em a drink in the next world, no harm done. I never knew a barbarian who cut up people slowly in little rooms, or tortured women to make 'em look pretty, or put poison in people's grub. Civilization? If that's civilization, you can shove it where the sun don't shine!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said SHOVE IT WHERE THE SUN DOESN'T SHINE, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah? Bin there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But there is more to civilization than that!' said Mr Saveloy. 'There's... music, and literature, and the concept of justice, and the ideals of—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bamboo doors slid aside. As one man, joints creaking, the Horde turned with weapons raised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men in the doorway were taller and much more richly dressed than the peasants, and they moved in the manner of people who are used to there being no-one in the way. Ahead of them, though, was a trembling peasant holding a red flag on a stick. He was prodded into the room at swordpoint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Red flag?' whispered Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It means they want to parley,' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know... it's like our white flag of surrender,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never heard of it,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It means you mustn't kill anyone until they're ready.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy tried to shut out the whispers behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Why don't we just invite them to dinner and massacre them all when they're drunk</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You heard the man. There's seven hundred thousand of them</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Ah? So it'd have to be something simple with pasta, then</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of the lords strode into the middle of the room. Cohen and Mr Saveloy went to meet them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you, too,' said Cohen, grabbing Rincewind as he tried to back away. 'You're a weaselly man with words in a tight spot, so come on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong regarded them with the expression of a man whose ancestry had bequeathed to him the ability to look down on everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My name is Lord Hong. I am the Emperor's Grand Vizier. I order you to quit these premises immediately and submit to judgement.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy turned to Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ain't gonna,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy tried to think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um, how shall I phrase this? Ghenghiz Cohen, leader of the Silver Horde, presents his compliments to Lord Hong but—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell him he can stuff it,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think, Lord Hong, that perhaps you may have perceived the general flow of opinion here,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where are the rest of your barbarians, peasant?' he demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind watched Mr Saveloy. The old teacher seemed at a loss for words this time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizard wanted to run away. But Cohen had been right. Mad as it sounded, it was probably safer to be near him. Running away would put him closer, sooner or later, to Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Who believed that there were <em class="calibre8">other</em> barbarians somewhere...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I tell you this, and this only,' said Lord Hong. 'If you quit the Forbidden City now, your deaths, at least, will be quick. And then your heads and significant parts will be paraded through the cities of the Empire so that people will know of the terrible punishment.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Punishment?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'For killing the Emperor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We ain't killed no Emperor,' said Cohen. 'I've got nothing <em class="calibre8">against</em> killing Emperors, but we ain't killed one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He was killed in his bed an hour ago,' said Lord Hong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not by us,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By you,' said Rincewind. 'Only it's against the rules to kill the Emperor so you wanted it to look as though the Red Army did it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong looked at him as if seeing him for the first time and less than happy about doing so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In the circumstances,' said Lord Hong, 'I doubt that anyone will believe you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What will happen if we yield now?' said Mr Saveloy. 'I like to know these things.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then you will die very slowly in... interesting ways.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's the saga of my life,' said Cohen. 'I've <em class="calibre8">always</em> been dying very slowly in interesting ways. What's it to be? Street fighting? House to house? Free for all or what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In the real world,' said one of the other lords, 'we <em class="calibre8">battle</em>. We do not scuffle like barbarians. Our armies will meet on the plain before the city.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Before the city what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He means in front of the city, Cohen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Civilized talk again. When?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dawn tomorrow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'OK,' said Cohen. 'It'll give us an appetite for our breakfast. Anything else we can do for you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How big is your army, barbarian?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You would not believe how big,' said Cohen, which was probably true. 'We have overrun countries. We have wiped whole cities off the map. Where my army passes, nothing grows.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's true, at least,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We have not heard of you!' said the warlord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said Cohen. '<em class="calibre8">That's</em> how good we are.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There is one other thing about his army, actually,' said someone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all turned to Rincewind, who'd been almost as surprised as they were to hear his voice. But a train of thought had just reached the terminus...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You may have been wondering why you have only seen the... generals,' Rincewind went on, slowly, as if working it out as he went along. 'That is because, you see, the men themselves are... invisible. Er. Yes. Ghosts, in fact. Everyone knows this, don't they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen gaped at him in astonishment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Blood-sucking ghosts, as a matter of fact,' said Rincewind. 'After all, everyone knows that's what you get beyond the Wall, don't they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong sneered. But the warlords stared at Rincewind with the expressions of people who strongly suspected that the people beyond the Wall were flesh and blood but who also relied on millions of people not believing that this was so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ridiculous! <em class="calibre8">You</em> are not invisible blood-sucking ghosts,' said one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen opened his mouth so that the diamond teeth glinted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S right,' he said. 'Fact is... we're the <em class="calibre8">visible</em> sort.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! A pathetic attempt!' said Lord Hong. 'Ghosts or no ghosts, we will beat you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that went better than I expected,' Mr Saveloy remarked as the warlords strode out. 'Was that an attempt at a little bit of psychological warfare there, Mr Rincewind?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that what it was? I know about that kind of stuff,' said Cohen. 'It's where you bang your shield all night before the fight so's the enemy can't get any sleep and you sing, "We're gonna <em class="calibre8">cut</em> yer <em class="calibre8">tankers</em> off," and stuff like that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Similar,' said Mr Saveloy, diplomatically. 'But it failed to work, I'm afraid. Lord Hong and his generals are rather too sophisticated. It's a great shame you couldn't try it on the common soldiers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a faint squeak of rabbit behind them. They turned, and looked at the somewhat under-age cadre of the Red Army that was being ushered in. Butterfly was with them. She even gave Rincewind a very faint smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had always relied on running away. But sometimes, perhaps, you had to stand and fight if only because there was nowhere left to run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he was no good at all with weapons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least, the normal sort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um,' he said, 'if we leave the palace now, we'll be killed, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I doubt it,' said Mr Saveloy. 'It's become a matter of the Art of War now. Someone like Hong would probably slit our throats, but now war is declared things have to be done according to custom.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a million-to-one chance,' he said, 'but it might just work...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Four Horsemen whose Ride presages the end of the world are known to be Death, War, Famine and Pestilence. But even less significant events have their own Horsemen. For example, the Four Horsemen of the Common Cold are Sniffles, Chesty, Nostril and Lack of Tissues; the Four Horsemen whose appearance foreshadows any public holiday are Storm, Gales, Sleet and Contra-flow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Among the armies encamped in the broad alluvial plain around Hunghung, the invisible horsemen known as Misinformation, Rumour and Gossip saddled up...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A large army encamped has all the tedious problems of a city without any of the advantages. Its watchfires and picket lines are, after a while, open to local civilians, especially if they have anything to sell and even more so if they are women whose virtue has a certain commercial element and even, sometimes, if they appear to be selling food which is a break from the monotonous army diet. The food currently on sale was certainly such a break.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pork balls! Pork balls! Get them while they're...' There was a pause as the vendor mentally tried out ways of ending the sentence, and gave up. 'Pork balls! Onna stick! How about you, shogun, you look like -Here, aren't you the—?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shutupshutupshutup!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind pulled D. M. H. Dibhala into the shadows by a tent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trader looked at the anguished face framed between a eunuch outfit and a big straw hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Wizard, isn't it? How are—?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know how you seriously wanted to become very rich in international trade?' Rincewind said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes? Can we start?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Soon. Soon. But there's something you must do. You know this rumour about the army of invisible vampire ghosts that's heading this way?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">D. M. H. Dibhala's eyes swivelled nervously. But it was part of his stock in trade never to appear to be ignorant of anything except, perhaps, how to give correct change.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The one about there being millions of them?' said Rincewind. 'And very hungry on account of not having eaten on the way? And made specially fierce by the Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um... yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, it's <em class="calibre8">not true</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't believe me? After all, I ought to know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good point.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we don't want people to panic, do we?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very bad for business, panic,' said D. M. H., nodding uncomfortably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So make sure you tell people there's no truth in this rumour, will you? Set their minds at rest.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good idea. Er. These invisible vampire ghosts... Do they carry money of any sort?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Because they don't exist.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes. I forgot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And there are not 2,300,009 of them,' said Rincewind. He was rather proud of this little detail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not 2,300,009 of them...' said D. M. H., a little glassy-eyed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Absolutely not. There are <em class="calibre8">not</em> 2,300,009 of them, no matter what anyone says. Nor has the Great Wizard made them twice as big as normal. Good man. Now I'd better be off—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind hurried away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trader stood in thought for a while. It stole over him that he'd probably sold enough things for now, and he might as well go home and spend a quiet night in a barrel in the root cellar with a sack over his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His route led him through quite a large part of the camp. He made sure that soldiers he met knew there was no truth in the rumour, even though this invariably meant that, first of all, he had to tell them what the rumour actually <em class="calibre8">was</em>.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A toy rabbit squeaked nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I'm afraid of the big inwisible wampire ghosts!' sobbed Favourite Pearl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers around this particular campfire tried to comfort her but, unfortunately, there was no-one to comfort them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An' I heard they alweady et some men!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One or two soldiers looked over their shoulders. There was nothing to be seen in the darkness. This wasn't, however, a reassuring sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Army moved obliquely from campfire to campfire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been very specific. He'd spent all his adult life - at least, those parts of it where he wasn't being chased by things with more legs than teeth - in Unseen University, and he felt he knew what he was talking about here. Don't tell people anything, he said. Don't <em class="calibre8">tell</em> them. You didn't get to survive as a wizard in UU by believing what people told you. You believed what you were <em class="calibre8">not</em> told.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Don't tell them. <em class="calibre8">Ask</em> them. Ask them if it's true. You can beg them to tell you it's <em class="calibre8">not</em> true. Or you can even tell them you've been told to tell them it's not true, and that is the best of all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because Rincewind knew very well that when the four rather small and nasty Horsemen of Panic ride out there is a good job done by Misinformation, Rumour and Gossip, but they are as nothing compared to the fourth horseman, whose name is Denial.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After an hour Rincewind felt quite unnecessary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were conversations breaking out everywhere, particularly in those areas on the edge of the camps, where the night stretched away so big and dark and, so very obviously, empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, so how come they're saying there's not 2,300,009 of them, eh? If there's none of them, then why's there a number?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, there's no such thing as invisible vampire ghosts, all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh yeah? How do you know? Have you ever seen any?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen, I went and asked the captain and he says he's certain there's no invisible ghosts out there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can he be certain if he can't see them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He says there's no such things as invisible vampire ghosts at all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? How come he's saying that all of a sudden? My grandfather told me there's millions of them outside the—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hold on... What's that out there... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could've sworn I heard something...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I</em> can't see anything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">no</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Things must have filtered through to High Command because, getting on towards midnight, trumpets were sounded around the camps and a special proclamation was read out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It confirmed the reality of vampire ghosts in general but denied their existence in any specific, here-and-now sense. It was a masterpiece of its type, particularly since it brought the whole subject to the ears of soldiers the Red Army hadn't been able to reach yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An hour later the situation had reached the point of criticality and Rincewind was hearing things he personally hadn't made up and, on the whole, would much rather not hear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd chat with a couple of soldiers and say: 'I'm sure there's no huge hungry army of vampire ghosts' and get told, 'No, there's seven old men.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just seven old men?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I heard they're <em class="calibre8">very</em> old,' said a soldier. 'Like, too old to die. I heard from someone at the palace that they can walk through walls and make themselves invisible.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, come <em class="calibre8">on</em>,' said Rincewind. 'Seven old men fighting this whole army?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Makes you think, eh? Corporal Toshi says the Great Wizard is helping them. Stands to reason. I wouldn't be fighting a whole army if I didn't have a lot of magic on my side.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Anyone know what the Great Wizard looks like?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say he's taller than a house and got three heads.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded encouragingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I heard,' said a soldier, 'that the Red Army is going to fight on their side, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So what? Corporal Toshi says they're just a bunch of kids.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I heard... the <em class="calibre8">real</em> Red Army... you know...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Red Army ain't gonna side with barbarian invaders! Anyway, there's no such thing as the Red Army. That's just a myth.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like the invisible vampire ghosts,' said Rincewind, giving the clockwork of anxiety another little turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yeah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He left them arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one was deserting. Running off into a night full of non-specific terrors was worse than staying in camp. But that was all to the good, he decided. It meant that the really frightened people were staying put and seeking reassurance from their comrades. And there was nothing like someone repeating 'I'm <em class="calibre8">sure</em> there's no vampire wizards' and going to the latrine four times an hour to put backbone into a platoon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind crept back towards the city, rounded a tent in the shadows, and collided with a horse, which trod heavily on his foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your wife is a big hippo!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SORRY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind froze, both hands clutching his aching foot. He knew only one person with a voice like a cemetery in midwinter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to hop backwards, and collided with another horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">RINCEWIND, ISN'T IT?
     said Death. YES. GOOD EVENING. I DON'T BELIEVE YOU HAVE MET WAR. RINCEWIND, WAR. WAR, RINCEWIND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">War touched his helmet in salute.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pleasure's all mine,' he said. He indicated the other three riders. 'Like to introduce you to m'sons, Terror and Panic. And m'daughter, Clancy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The children chorused a 'hello'. Clancy was scowling, looked about seven years old and was wearing a hard hat and a Pony Club badge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WASN'T EXPECTING TO SEE <em class="calibre8">YOU</em> HERE, RINCEWIND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death pulled an hourglass out of his robe, held it up to the moonlight, and sighed. Rincewind craned to see how much sand was left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOWEVER, I COULD-—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you make any special arrangement just on my account,' said Rincewind hurriedly. 'I, er... I expect you're all here for the battle?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. IT PROMISES TO BE EXTREMELY - SHORT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's going to win?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOW, YOU KNOW I WOULDN'T TELL YOU THAT, EVEN IF I KNEW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Even if you knew?' said Rincewind. 'I thought you were supposed to know everything!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death held up a finger. Something fluttered down through the night. Rincewind thought it was a moth, although it looked less fluffy and had a strange speckled pattern on its wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It settled on the extended digit for a moment, and then flew up and away again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ON A NIGHT LIKE THIS,
     said Death, THE ONLY CERTAIN THING IS UNCERTAINTY. TRITE, I KNOW, BUT TRUE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere on the horizon, thunder rumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll, er, just be sort of going, then,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DON'T BE A STRANGER,
     said Death, as the wizard hurried off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Odd person,' said War.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WITH HIM HERE, EVEN UNCERTAINTY IS UNCERTAIN. AND I'M NOT SURE EVEN ABOUT THAT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">War pulled a large paper-wrapped package out of his saddlebag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got... let's see now... Egg and Cress, Chicken Tikka, and Mature Cheese with Crunchy Pickle, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEY DO SUCH MARVELLOUS THINGS WITH SANDWICHES THESE DAYS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh... and Bacon Surprise.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">REALLY? WHAT IS SO SURPRISING ABOUT BACON?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know. I suppose it comes as something of a shock to the pig.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Ridcully had been having a long wrestle with himself, and had won.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're going to bring him back,' he said. 'It's been four days. And then we can send them back their bloody tube thing. It gives me the willies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The senior wizards looked at one another. No-one was very keen on a university with a Rincewind component, but the metal dog <em class="calibre8">did</em> give them the willies. No-one had wanted to go near it. They'd piled some tables around it and tried to pretend it wasn't there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right,' said the Dean. 'But Stibbons kept going on about things weighing the same, right? If we send that back, won't it mean Rincewind arrives here going very fast?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Stibbons says he's working on the spell,' said Ridcully. 'Or we could pile some mattresses up at one end of the hall or something.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bursar raised a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Bursar?' said Ridcully encouragingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ho, landlord, a pint of your finest ale!' said the Bursar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Ridcully. 'That's settled, then. I've already told Mr Stibbons to start looking...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On that demonic device?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then nothing can <em class="calibre8">possibly</em> go wrong,' said the Dean sourly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A trumpet of lobsters, if you would be so good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And the Bursar agrees.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The warlords had gathered in Lord Hong's chambers. They carefully kept a distance from one another, as befitted enemies who were in the most shaky of alliances. Once the barbarians were dealt with, the battle might still continue. But they wanted assurance on one particular point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!' said Lord Hong. 'Let me make this absolutely clear! There is <em class="calibre8">no</em> invisible army of blood-sucking ghosts, do you understand? The people beyond the Wall are just like us - except vastly inferior in every respect, of course. But totally visible.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One or two of the lords did not look convinced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And all this talk about the Red Army?' said one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Red Army, Lord Tang, is an undisciplined rabble that shall be put down with resolute force!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know what Red Army the peasants are talking about,' said Lord Tang. 'They say that thousands of years ago it—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say that thousands of years ago a wizard who did not exist took mud and lightning and made soldiers that couldn't die,' said Lord Hong. 'Yes. It's a <em class="calibre8">story</em>, Lord Tang. A story made up by peasants who did not understand what really happened. One Sun Mirror's army just had' - Lord Hong waved a hand vaguely - 'better armour, better discipline. I am not frightened of ghosts and I am <em class="calibre8">certainly</em> not afraid of a legend that probably never existed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Soothsayer!' snapped Lord Hong. The soothsayer, who hadn't been expecting it, gave a start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, my lord?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How're those entrails coming along?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er - they're about ready, my lord,' said the soothsayer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soothsayer was rather worried. This must have been the wrong kind of bird, he told himself. About the only thing the entrails were telling him was that if he got out of this alive he, the soothsayer, might be lucky enough to enjoy a nice chicken dinner. But Lord Hong sounded like a man with the most dangerous kind of impatience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what do they tell you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er - the future is... the future is...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chicken entrails had never looked like this. For a moment he thought they were moving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... it is uncertain,' he hazarded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Be</em> certain,' said Lord Hong. 'Who will win in the morning?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shadows flickered across the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something was fluttering around the light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked like an undistinguished yellow moth, with black patterns on its wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soothsayer's precognitive abilities, which were considerably more powerful than he believed, told him: this is not a good time to be a clairvoyant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the other hand, there was never a good time to be horribly executed, so...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Without a shadow of doubt,' he said, 'the enemy will be most emphatically beaten.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can you be so certain?' said Lord McSweeney.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soothsayer bridled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see this wobbly bit near the kidneys? You want to argue with this green trickly thing? You know all about liver suddenly? All right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So there you are,' said Lord Hong. 'Fate smiles upon us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Even so—' Lord Tang began. 'The men are very—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can tell the men—' Lord Hong began. He stopped. He smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can tell the men', he said, 'that there <em class="calibre8">is</em> a huge army of invisible vampire ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!' Lord Hong began to stride up and down, snapping his fingers. 'Yes, there is a terrible army of foreign ghosts. And this has so enraged our <em class="calibre8">own</em> ghosts... yes, a thousand generations of our ancestors are riding on the wind to repel this barbaric invasion! The ghosts of the Empire are arising! Millions and millions of them! Even our demons are furious at this intrusion! They will descend like a mist of claws and teeth to -Yes, Lord Sung?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The warlords were looking at one another nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em>, Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong's eyes gleamed behind his tiny spectacles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Make the necessary proclamations,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But only a few hours ago we told the men there were no—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell them differently!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But will they believe that there—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They will believe what they are told!' shouted Lord Hong. 'If the enemy thinks his strength lies in deceit, then we will use their deceit against them. Tell the men that behind them will be a billion ghosts of the Empire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other warlords tried to avoid his gaze. No-one was actually going to suggest that your average soldier would not be totally happy with ghosts front and rear, especially given the capriciousness of ghosts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Lord Hong. He looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you <em class="calibre8">still</em> here?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just clearing up my giblets, my lord!' squealed the soothsayer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the remains of his stricken chicken and ran for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After all, he told himself as he pelted back home, it's not as though I said <em class="calibre8">whose</em> enemy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was left alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He realized he was shaking. It was probably fury. But perhaps... perhaps things could be turned to his advantage, even so. Barbarians came from outside, and to most people everywhere outside was the same. Yes. The barbarians were a minute detail, easily disposed of, but carefully managed, perhaps, might figure in his overall strategy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was breathing heavily, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked into his private study and shut the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled out the key.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a few minutes' silence, except for the rustle of cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Lord Hong looked at himself in the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd gone to great lengths to achieve this. He had used several agents, none of whom knew the whole plan. But the Ankh-Morpork tailor had been good at his work and the measurements had been followed exactly. From pointy boots to hose to doublet, cloak and hat with a feather in it, Lord Hong knew he was a perfect Ankh-Morpork gentleman. The cloak was lined with silk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The clothes felt uncomfortable and touched him in unfamiliar ways, but those were minor details. This was how a man looked in a society that breathed, that moved, that could go somewhere...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd walk through the city on that first great day and the people would be silent when they saw their natural leader.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It never crossed his mind that anyone would say, '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ere, wot a toff! 'Eave 'arf a brick at 'im!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The ants scurried. The thing that went 'parp' went parp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards stood back. There wasn't much else to do when Hex was working at full speed, except watch the fish and oil the wheels from time to time. There were occasional flashes of octarine from the tubes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hex was spelling several hundred times a minute. It was as simple as that. It would take a human more than an hour to do an ordinary finding spell. But Hex could do them faster. Over and over again. It was netting the whole occult sea in the search for one slippery fish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It achieved, after ninety-three minutes, what would otherwise have taken the faculty several months.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see?' said Ponder, his voice shaking a little as he took the line of blocks out of the hopper. 'I <em class="calibre8">said</em> he could do it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's he?' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hex.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you mean <em class="calibre8">it</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what I said, sir... er... yes.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Another thing about the Horde, Mr Saveloy had noticed, was their ability to relax. The old men had the catlike ability to do nothing when there was nothing to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd sharpened their swords. They'd had a meal - big lumps of meat for most of them, and some kind of gruel for Mad Hamish, who'd dribbled most of it down his beard - and assured its wholesomeness by dragging the cook in, nailing him to the floor by his apron, and suspending a large axe on a rope that crossed a beam in the roof and was held at the other end by Cohen, while he ate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they'd sharpened their swords again, out of habit, and... stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally one of them would whistle a snatch of a tune, through what remained of his teeth, or search a bodily crevice for a particularly fretful louse. Mainly, though, they just sat and stared at nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a long while, Caleb said, 'Y'know, I've never been to XXXX. Been everywhere else. Often wondered what it's like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got shipwrecked there once,' said Vincent. 'Weird place. Lousy with magic. There's beavers with beaks and giant rats with long tails that hops around the place and boxes with one another. Black fellas wanderin' around all over the place. They say they're in a dream. Bright, though. Show 'em a bit of desert with one dead tree in it, next minute they've found a three-course meal with fruits and nuts to follow. Beer's good, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds like it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another long pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose they've <em class="calibre8">got</em> minstrels here? Be a bit of a bloody waste, wouldn't it, if we all got killed and no-one made up any songs about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bound to have loads of minstrels, a city like this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No problem there, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another lengthy pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not that we're going to get killed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. I don't intend to start getting killed at my time of life, haha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You a religious man at all?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I've robbed loads of temples and killed a few mad priests in my time. Don't know if that counts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do your tribe believe happens to you when you die in battle?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, these big fat women in horned helmets take you off to the halls of Io where there is fighting and carousing and quaffing for ever.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean, like, <em class="calibre8">really</em> for ever?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'S'pose so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos generally you get fed up even with turkey by about day four.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, what do <em class="calibre8">your</em> lot believe?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think we go off to Hell in a boat made of toenail dippings. Something like that, anyway.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it's not worth talking about 'cos we're not going to get killed today.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You said it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah, it's not worth dying if all you've got to look toward to is leftover meat and floating around in a boat smelling of your socks, is it, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Down in Klatch they believe if you lead a good life you're rewarded by being sent to a paradise with lots of young women.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's your reward, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno. Maybe it's their punishment. But I do remember you eat sherbet all day.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah. When I was a lad we had proper sherbet, in little tube things and a liquorice straw to suck it up with. You don't get that sort of thing today. People're too busy rushin' about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds a lot better than quaffing toenails, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you ever believe that business about every enemy you killed becoming your servant in the next world?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How many you killed?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh. Maybe two, three thousand. Not counting dwarfs and trolls, o' course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Definitely not going to be short of a hairbrush or someone to open doors for you after you're dead, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're definitely not going to die, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, odds of 100,000 to one... hah. The difference is just a lot of zeroes, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, stout comrades at our side, a strong right arm... What more could we want?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A volcano'd be favourite.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're going to die, aren't we?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Still, to look on the bright side, I recall I still owe Fafa the dwarf fifty dollars for this sword,' said Boy Willie. 'Looks as though I could end up ahead of the game.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy put his head in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm really sorry,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't worry about it,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The grey light of dawn was just visible in the high windows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look,' said Mr Saveloy, 'you don't <em class="calibre8">have</em> to die. We could... well, we could sneak out. Back along the pipe, maybe. Perhaps we could carry Hamish. People are coming and going all the time. I'm sure we could get out of... the city... without... any...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice faded away. No voice could keep going under the pressure of those stares. Even Hamish, whose gaze was generally focused on some point about eighty years away, was glaring at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ain't gonna run,' said Hamish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not running away,' he managed. 'It's a sensible withdrawal. Tactics. Good grief, it's common sense!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ain't gonna run.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, even barbarians can count! And you've admitted you're going to die!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ain't gonna run.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen leaned forward and patted Mr Saveloy on the hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the heroing, see,' he said. 'Who's ever heard of a hero running away? All them kids you was telling us about... you know, the ones who think we're stories... you reckon they'd believe we ran away? Well, then. No, it's not part of the whole deal, running away. Let someone else do the running.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Besides,' said Truckle, 'where'd we get another chance like this? Six against five armies! That's bl — that's fantastic! We're not talking legends here. I reckon we've got a good crack at some mythology as well.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... you'll... <em class="calibre8">die</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, that's part of it, I'll grant you, that's part of it. But what a way to go, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked at them and realized that they were speaking another language in another world. It was one he had no key to, no map for. You could teach them to wear interesting pants and handle money but something in their soul stayed exactly the same.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do teachers go anywhere special when they die?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't think so,' said Mr Saveloy gloomily. He wondered for a moment whether there really <em class="calibre8">was</em> a great Free Period in the sky. It didn't sound very likely. Probably there would be some marking to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, whatever happens, when you're dead, if you ever feel like a good quaff, you're welcome to drop in at any time,' said Cohen. 'It's been <em class="calibre8">fun</em>. That's the important thing. And it's been an education, hasn't it, boys?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a general murmur of assent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazing, all those long words.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And learnin' to buy things.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And social intercourse, hur, hur... sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shame it didn't work out, but I've never been one for plans,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm going to join you,' he said grimly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, to fight?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you know how to handle a sword?' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then you've wasted <em class="calibre8">all</em> your life.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked offended at this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect I'll get the hang of it as we go along,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get the hang of it? It's a sword!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but... when you're a teacher, you have to pick things up fast.' Mr Saveloy smiled nervously. 'I once taught practical alchemy for a whole term when Mr Schism was off sick after blowing himself up, and up until then I'd never seen a crucible.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here.' Boy Willie handed the teacher a spare sword. He hefted it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. I expect there's a manual, or something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Manual? No. You hold the blunt end and poke the other end at people.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah? Really? Well, that seems quite straightforward. I thought there was rather more to it than that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You <em class="calibre8">sure</em> you want to come with us?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked firm. 'Absolutely. I very much doubt if I'll survive if you lose and... well, it seems that you heroes get a better class of Heaven. I must say I rather suspect you get a better class of life, too. And I really don't know where teachers go when they're dead, but I've got a horrible suspicion it'll be full of sports masters.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's just that I don't know if you could really go properly berserk,' said Cohen. 'Have you ever had the red mist come down and woke up to find you'd bitten twenty people to death?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I used to be reckoned a pretty ratty man if people made too much noise in class,' said Mr Saveloy. 'And something of a dead shot with a piece of chalk, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about you, taxman?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Six Beneficent Winds backed away hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... I think I'm probably more cut out for undermining the system from within,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fair enough.' Cohen looked at the others. 'I've never done this official sort of warring before,' he said. 'How's it supposed to go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think you just line up in front of one another and then charge,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seems straightforward enough. All right, let's go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They strode, or in one case wheeled and in another case moved at Mr Saveloy's gentle trot, down the hall, The taxman trailed after them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Saveloy!' he shouted. 'You know what's going to happen! Have you lost your senses?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said the teacher, 'but I may have found some better ones.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned to himself. The whole of his life, so far, had been complicated. There had been timetables and lists and a whole basket of things he must do and things he shouldn't do, and the life of Mr Saveloy had been this little wriggly thing trying to survive in the middle of it all. But now it had suddenly all become very simple. You held one end and you poked the other into people. A man could live his whole life by a <em class="calibre8">maxim</em> like that. And, afterwards, get a very interesting afterlife—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here, you'll need this too,' said Caleb, poking something round at him as they stepped into the grey light. 'It's a shield.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. It's to protect myself, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you really need to, bite the edge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I know about that,' said Mr Saveloy. 'That's when you go berserk, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be, could be,' said Caleb. 'That's why a lot of fighters do it. But personally I do it 'cos it's made of chocolate.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Chocolate?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can never get a proper meal in these battles.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And this is me, thought Mr Saveloy, marching down the street with <em class="calibre8">heroes</em>. They are the great fi—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And when in doubt, take all your clothes off,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What for?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sign of a good berserk, taking all your clothes off Frightens the hell out of the enemy. If anyone starts laughing, stab 'em one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a movement among the blankets in the wheelchair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said, STAB 'EM ONE, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hamish waved an arm that looked like bone with skin on it, and apparently far too thin to hold the axe it was in fact holding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right! Right in the nadgers!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy nudged Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ought to be writing this down,' he said. 'Where exactly are the nadgers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Small range of mountains near the Hub.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fascinating.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The citizens of Hunghung were ranged along the city walls. It was <em class="calibre8">not every day you saw a fight like this</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind elbowed and kicked his way through the people until he reached the cadre, who'd managed to occupy a prime position over the main gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're you hanging around here for?' he said. 'You could be miles away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We want to see what happens, of course,' said Twoflower, his spectacles gleaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know what happens! The Horde will be instantly slaughtered!' said Rincewind. 'What did you <em class="calibre8">expect</em> to happen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, but you're forgetting the invisible vampire ghosts,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Their secret army. I heard that <em class="calibre8">we've</em> got some, too. Should be interesting to watch.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Twoflower, there are <em class="calibre8">no</em> invisible vampire ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes, everyone's going round denying it,' said Lotus Blossom. 'So there must be some truth in it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I made it up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, you may <em class="calibre8">think</em> you made it up,' said Two-flower. 'But perhaps you are a pawn of Fate.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen, there's no—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Same old Rincewind,' said Twoflower, in a jolly way. 'You always were so pessimistic about everything, but it always worked out all right in the end.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There are no ghosts, there are no magic armies,' said Rincewind. 'There's just—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When seven men go out to fight an army 100,000 times bigger there's only one way it can end,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. I'm glad you see sense.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They'll win,' said Twoflower. 'They've got to. Otherwise the world's just not working properly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You look educated,' said Rincewind to Butterfly. 'Explain to him why he's wrong. It's because of a little thing we have in our country. I don't know if you've ever heard of it - it's called <em class="calibre8">mathematics</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl smiled at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't believe me, do you?' said Rincewind flatly. 'You're just like him. What d'you think this is, homeopathic warfare? The smaller your side the more likely you are to win? Well, it's not like that. I wish it <em class="calibre8">was</em> like that, but it isn't. Nothing is. There are no amazing strokes of luck, no magic solutions, and the good people don't win because they're small and plucky!' He waved his hand irritably at something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> always survived,' said Twoflower. 'We had amazing adventures and you always survived.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was just coincidence.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You kept <em class="calibre8">on</em> surviving.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you got us safely out of prison,' said Lotus Blossom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There were just a lot of coinci— <em class="calibre8">Will you go away</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">A</em> butterfly skittered away from his flailing hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Damn things,' he mumbled. And added: 'Well, that's it. I'm off. I can't watch. I've got things to do. Besides, afterwards I think nasty people are going to be looking for me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he realized there were tears in Lotus Blossom's eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We... we thought you would do something,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me? I can't do anything! Especially not magic! I'm famous for it! Don't go around believing that Great Wizards solve all your problems, because there aren't any and they don't and I should know because I'm not one!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He backed away. This is always happening to me! I'm just minding my own business and everything goes wrong and suddenly everyone's relying on me and saying, 'Oh, Rincewind, what are you going to do about it?' Well, what Mrs Rincewind's little boy, if she was a Mrs Rincewind of course, what he's going to do about it is nothing, right? You have to sort it all out yourselves! No mysterious magical armies are going to - Will you stop looking at me like that? I don't see why it's <em class="calibre8">my</em> fault! I've got other things to do! It's not my business!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he turned and ran.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowds didn't take much notice of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The streets were deserted by Hunghung standards, which meant you could quite often see the cobbles. Rincewind pushed and shoved his way along the alleys nearest the Wall, looking for another gateway with guards too busy to ask questions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were footsteps behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look,' he said, spinning round, 'I told you, you can all—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the Luggage. It contrived to look a little ashamed of itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, turned up at last, have we?' said Rincewind savagely. 'What happened to the following-master-everywhere thing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggage shuffled its feet. From out of an alleyway came a slightly larger and far more ornate version of itself. Its lid was inset with decorative wood and, it seemed to Rincewind, its feet were rather more dainty than the horny-nailed, calloused ones of the Luggage. Besides, the toenails had been painted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' he said. 'Well. Good grief. Fair enough, I suppose. Really? I mean... yes. Well. Come on, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached the end of the alley and turned round. The Luggage was gently bumping the larger chest, urging it to follow him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's own sexual experiences were not excessive although he had seen diagrams. He hadn't the faintest idea about how it applied to travel accessories. Did they say things like 'What a chest!' or 'Get a load of the hinges on that one!'?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If it came to that, he had no real reason for considering that the Luggage was male. Admittedly it had a homicidal nature, but so had a lot of the women that Rincewind had met, and they had often become a little more homicidal as a result of meeting him. Capacity for violence, Rincewind had heard, was unisexual. He wasn't certain what unisex was, but expected that it was what he normally experienced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a small gate ahead. It seemed to be unguarded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite his fear he walked through it, and refrained from running. Authority always noticed a running man. The time to start running was around about the 'e' in 'Hey, you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one paid him any attention. The attention of the people along the Wall was all on the armies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at them,' he said bitterly, to the generality of the universe. '<em class="calibre8">Stupid</em>. If it was seven against seventy, every one'd <em class="calibre8">know</em> who'd lose. Just because it's seven again 700,000, everyone's not sure. As though suddenly numbers don't mean anything any more. Huh! Why should I do anything? It's not as if I even know the guy all that well. Admittedly he saved my life a couple of times, but that's no reason to die horribly just because he can't count. So you can stop looking at me like that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The <em class="calibre8">Luggage backed away a</em> little. The <em class="calibre8">other</em> Luggage...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... Rincewind supposed it just <em class="calibre8">looked</em> female. Women had <em class="calibre8">bigger luggage</em> than men, didn't they? Because of the - he moved into unknown territory - extra frills and stuff. It was just one of those things, like the fact that they had smaller handkerchiefs than men even though their noses were generally the same size. The Luggage had always been <em class="calibre8">the</em> Luggage. Rincewind wasn't mentally prepared for there to be more than one. There was the Luggage and... the <em class="calibre8">other</em> Luggage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, both of you,' he said. 'We're getting out of here. I've done what I can. I just don't care any more. It's nothing to do with me. I don't see why everyone depends on me. I'm not dependable. Even ,' don't depend on me, and I'm me.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked at the horizon. Grey-blue clouds were piling up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a storm coming,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a mercy that we won't be alive to get wet, then,' said Boy Willie, cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Funny thing, though. It looks like it's coming from every direction at once.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Filthy foreign weather. You can't trust it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen turned his attention to the armies of the five warlords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There seemed to have been some agreement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd arranged themselves around the position that Cohen had taken up. The tactic seemed quite clear. It was simply to advance. The Horde could see the commanders riding up and down in front of their legions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How's it supposed to start?' said Cohen, the rising wind whipping at what remained of his hair. 'Does someone blow a whistle or something? Or do we just scream and charge?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Commencement is generally by agreement,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked at the forest of lances and pennants. Hundreds of thousands of men looked like quite a lot of men when you saw them close to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose,' he said, slowly, 'that none of you has got some amazing plan you've been keeping quiet about?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We thought <em class="calibre8">you</em> had one,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several riders had now left each army and approached the Horde in a group. They stopped a little more than a spear's throw away, and sat and watched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, then,' said Cohen. 'I hate to say this, but perhaps we should talk about surrender.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!' said Mr Saveloy, and then stopped in embarrassment at the loudness of his own voice. 'No,' he repeated, a little more quietly. 'You won't live if you surrender. You just won't die immediately.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen scratched his nose. 'What's that flag... you know... when you want to talk to them without them killing you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's got to be red,' said Mr Saveloy. 'But look, it's no good you—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know, red for surrender, white for funerals...' muttered Cohen. 'All right. Anyone got something red?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've got a handkerchief,' said Mr Saveloy, 'but it's white and anyway—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Give it here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The barbarian teacher very reluctantly handed it over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen pulled a small, worn knife from his belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't believe this!' said Mr Saveloy. He was nearly in tears. 'Cohen the Barbarian talking surrender with people like that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Influence of civilization,' said Cohen. ' 'S probably made me go soft in the head.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled the knife over his arm, and then clamped the handkerchief over the cut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There we are,' he said. 'Soon have a nice red flag.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde nodded approvingly. It was an amazingly symbolic, dramatic and above all stupid gesture, in the finest traditions of barbarian heroing. It didn't seem to be lost on some of the nearer soldiers, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now,' Cohen went on, 'I reckon you, Teach, and you, Truckle... you two come with me and we'll go and talk to these people.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'll drag you off to their dungeons!' said Mr Saveloy. 'They've got torturers that can keep you alive for years!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut? Whutzeesay?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said THEY CAN KEEP YOU ALIVE FOR YEARS IN THEIR DUNGEONS, Hamish.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good! Fine by me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He trailed after the other two towards the warlords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong raised his visor and stared down his nose at them as they approached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Red flag, look,' said Cohen, waving the rather I damp object on the end of his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Lord Hong. 'We saw that little show. It may impress the common soldiers but it does not impress me, barbarian.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please yourself,' said Cohen. 'We've come to talk about surrender.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy noticed some of the lesser lords relax a little. Then he thought: a real soldier probably doesn't like this sort of thing. You don't want to go to soldier Heaven or wherever you go and say, I once led an army against seven old men. It wasn't medal-winning material.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Of course. So much for bravado,' said Lord Hong. 'Then lay down your arms and you will be escorted back to the palace.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen and Truckle looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lay down your arms.' Lord Hong snorted. 'That means put down your weapons.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen gave him a puzzled look. 'Why should we put down our weapons?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are we not talking about your surrender?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Our</em> surrender?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy's mouth opened in a mad, slow grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong stared at Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! You can hardly expect me to believe that you have come to ask <em class="calibre8">us</em>...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned from the saddle and glared at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do, don't you?' he said. 'You mindless little barbarians. Is it true that you can only count up to five?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We just thought that it might save people getting hurt,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You thought it would save <em class="calibre8">you</em> getting hurt,' said the warlord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I daresay a few of yours might get hurt, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're peasants,' said the warlord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. I was forgetting that,' said Cohen. 'And you're their chief, right? It's like your game of chess, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am their lord,' said Lord Hong. 'They will die at my bidding, if necessary.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen gave him a big, dangerous grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When do we start?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Return to your... band,' said Lord Hong. 'And then I think we shall start... shortly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glared at Truckle, who was unfolding his bit or paper. The barbarian's lips moved awkwardly and he ran a horny finger across the page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Misbegotten... wretch, so you are,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word,' said Mr Saveloy, who'd created the look-up table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the three returned to the Horde Mr Saveloy was aware of a grinding sound. Cohen was wearing several carats off his teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Die at my bidding",' he said. 'The bugger doesn't even know what a chief is meant to <em class="calibre8">be</em>, the bastard! Him and his horse.''</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked around. There seemed to be some arguing among the warlords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know,' he said, 'they probably will try to take us alive. I used to have a headmaster like him. He liked to make people's lives a misery.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean they'll be trying not to kill us?' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does that mean we have to try not to kill them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I don't think so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds OK to me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do we do now?' said Mr Saveloy. 'Do we do a battle chant or something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We just wait,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a lot of waiting in warfare,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes,' said Mr Saveloy. 'I've heard people say that. They say there's long periods of boredom followed by short periods of excitement.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not really,' said Cohen. 'It's more like short periods of waiting followed by long periods of being dead.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Blast.';</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fields were crisscrossed with drainage ditches, There seemed to be no straight path anywhere. And the ditches were too wide to jump; they <em class="calibre8">looked</em> shallow enough to wade, but only because eighteen inches of water overlay a suffocating depth of rich thick mud. Mr Saveloy said that the Empire owed its prosperity to the mud of the plains, and right now Rincewind was feeling extremely rich.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was also quite close to the big hill that dominated the city. It really was rounded, with a precision apparently far too accurate for mere natural causes; Saveloy had said that hills like that were drumlins, great piles of topsoil left behind by glaciers. Trees covered the lower slopes of this one, and there was a small building on the top.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cover. Now, <em class="calibre8">that</em> was a good word. It was a big plain and the armies weren't too far away. The hill looked curiously peaceful, as if it belonged to a different world. It was strange that the Agateans, who otherwise seemed to farm absolutely everywhere a water buffalo could stand, had left it alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone was watching him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a water buffalo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would be wrong to say it watched him with interest. It just watched him, because its eyes were open and had to be facing in some direction, and it had randomly chosen one which included Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its face held the completely serene expression of a creature that had long ago realized that it was, fundamentally, a tube on legs and had been installed in the universe to, broadly speaking, achieve throughput.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the other end of the string was a man, ankle-deep in the mud of the field. He had a broad straw hat, like every other buffalo holder. He had the basic pyjama suit of the Agatean man-in-the-field. And he had an expression not of idiocy, but of preoccupation. He was looking at Rincewind. As with the buffalo, this was only because his eyes had to be doing something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite the pressing dangers, Rincewind found himself overcome by a sudden curiosity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Good morning,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man <em class="calibre8">gave him</em> a nod. The water buffalo made the sound of regurgitating cud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Sorry if this is a personal question,' said Rincewind, 'but... I can't help wondering... why do you stand out in the fields all day with the water buffalo?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man thought about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good for soil,' he said eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But doesn't it waste a lot of time?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man gave this due appraisal also.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's time to a cow?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind reversed back on to the highway of reality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see those armies over there?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The buffalo holder concentrated his gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' he decided.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're fighting for you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man did not appear moved by this. The water buffalo burped gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some want to see you enslaved and some want you to run the country, or at least to let them run the country while telling you it's you doing it really,' said Rincewind. There's going to be a terrible battle. I can't help wondering... What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> want?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The buffalo holder absorbed this one for consideration, too. And it seemed to Rincewind that the slowness of the thought process wasn't due to native stupidity, but more to do with the sheer size of the question. He could feel it spreading out so that it incorporated the soil and the grass and the sun and headed on out into the universe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally the man said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A longer piece of string would be nice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Really? Well, well. There's a thing,' said Rincewind. 'Talking to you has been an education. Goodbye.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man watched him go. Beside him, the buffalo relaxed some muscles and contracted others and lifted its tail and made the world, in a very small way, a better place.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind headed on towards the hill. Random as the animal tracks and occasional plank bridges were, they seemed to head <em class="calibre8">right for it. If</em> Rincewind had been thinking clearly, an activity he last remembered doing around the age of twelve, he might have wondered about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trees of the lower slopes were sapient pears, and he didn't even think about <em class="calibre8">that</em>. Their leaves turned to watch him as he scrambled past. What he needed now was a cave or a handy—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no,' he said. 'No, no, no. You don't catch <em class="calibre8">me</em> like that. I'll go into a handy cave and there'll be a little door or some wise old man or something and I'll be dragged back into events. Right. Stay out in the open, that's the style.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He half climbed, half walked to the rounded top of the hill, which rose above the trees like a dome. Now he was closer he could see that it wasn't as smooth as it looked from below. Weather had worn gullies and channels in the soil, and bushes had colonized even, sheltered slope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The building on the top was, to Rincewind's surprise, rusty. It had been made of iron - pointed iron roof, iron walls, iron doorway. There were a few old nests and some debris on the floor, but it was otherwise empty. And not a good place to hide. It'd be the first place anyone would look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a cloud wall around the world now. Lightning crackled in its heart, and there was the sound of thunder - not the gentle rumble of summer thunder but the crackackack of splitting sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And yet the heat wrapped the plain like a blanket. The air felt thick. In a minute it was going to rain cats and food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Find somewhere where I won't be noticed,' he muttered. 'Keep head down. Only <em class="calibre8">way. Why</em> should I care? Other people's problem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Panting in the oppressive heat, he wandered on.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong was enraged. Those who knew him could tell, by the way he spoke more slowly and smiled continuously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And how do the men know the lightning dragons are <em class="calibre8">angry</em>?' he said. 'It may be mere high spirits.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not with a sky that colour,' said Lord Tang. 'That is not an auspicious colour for a sky. It looks like a bruise. A sky like that is portentous,'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what, pray, do you think it portends?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's just <em class="calibre8">generally</em> portentous,'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know what's behind this,' Lord Hong snarled. 'You're too frightened to fight seven old men, is that it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The men say they're the legendary Seven Indestructible Sages,' said Lord Fang. He tried to smile. 'You know how superstitious they are...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What Seven Sages?' said Lord Hong. 'I am extremely familiar with the history of the world and there are no legendary Seven Indestructible Sages.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... not <em class="calibre8">yet</em>,' said Lord Fang. 'Uh. But... a day like this... Perhaps legends have to <em class="calibre8">start</em> somewhere...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're barbarians! Oh, gods! Seven men! Can I believe we're afraid of seven men?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It feels wrong,' said Lord McSweeney. He added, quickly, 'That's what the men say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You have made the proclamation about our celestial army of ghosts? All of you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The warlords tried to avoid his gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes,' said Lord Fang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That must have improved morale.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh. Not... entirely...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, man?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh. Many men have deserted. Uh. They've been saying that foreign ghosts were bad enough, but...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They are <em class="calibre8">soldiers</em>, Lord Hong,' said Lord Tang sharply. 'They all have people they do not want to meet. Don't you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just for a second, there was the suggestion of a twitch on Lord Hong's cheek. It was only for a second, but those who saw it took note. Lord Hong's renowned glaze had shown a crack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What would you do, Lord Tang? Let these insolent barbarians go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course not. But... you don't need an army against seven men. Seven ancient old men. The peasants say... they say...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong's voice was slightly higher.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, man who talks to peasants. I'm sure you're going to tell us what they say about these foolish and foolhardy old men?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that's it, you see. They say, if they're so foolish and foolhardy... how did they manage to become so old?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Luck!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the wrong word. Even Lord Hong realized it. He'd never believed in luck. He'd always taken pains, usually those of other people, to fill life with certainties. But he knew that others believed in luck. It was a foible he'd always been happy to make use of. And now it was turning and stinging him on the hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There is nothing in the Art of War to tell us how five armies attack seven old men,' said Lord Tang. 'Ghosts or no ghosts. And this, Lord Hong, is because no-one ever thought such a thing would be done.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you feel so frightened I'll ride out against them with my mere 250,000 men,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am not frightened,' said Lord Tang. 'I am ashamed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Each man armed with two swords,' Lord Hong went on, ignoring him. 'And I shall see how lucky these... sages... are. Because, my lords, I will only have to be lucky once. They will have to be lucky a quarter of a million times.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lowered his visor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How lucky do you feel, my lords?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other four warlords avoided one another's gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong noticed their resigned silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very well, then,' he said. 'Let the gongs be sounded and the fire-crackers lit - to ensure good luck, of course.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a large number of ranks in the armies of the Empire, and many of them were untranslatable. Three Pink Pig and Five White Fang were, loosely speaking, privates, and not just because they were pale, vulnerable and inclined to curl up and hide when danger threatened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact they were so private as to be downright secretive. Even the army's mules ranked higher than them, because good mules were hard to come by whereas men like Pink Pig and White Fang are found in every army, somewhere where a latrine is in need of cleaning. They were so insignificant that they had, privately, decided that it would be a waste of an invisible foreign blood-sucking ghost's valuable time to attack them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They felt it only fair, after it had come all this way, to give it the chance of fiendishly killing someone superior.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had therefore hospitably decamped just before dawn and were now hiding out. Of course, if victory threatened they could always recamp. It was unlikely that they'd be missed in all the excitement, and both men were somewhat expert at turning up on battlefields in time to join in the victory celebrations. They lay in the long grass, watching the armies manoeuvre.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From this height, it looked like an impressive war. The army on one side was so small as to be invisible. Of course, if you accepted the very strong denials of last night, it was so <em class="calibre8">invisible</em> as to be invisible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was also their elevation which meant that they were the first to notice the ring around the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was just above the thunderous wall on the horizon. Where stray shafts of sunlight hit it, it glowed golden. Elsewhere it was merely yellow. But it was continuous, and thin as a thread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Funny-looking cloud,' said White Fang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah,' said Pink Pig. 'So what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was while they were thus engaged, and sharing a small bottle of rice wine liberated by Pink Pig from an unsuspecting comrade the previous evening, that they heard a groan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooooohhhhhh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their drinks froze in their throats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you hear that?' said Pink Pig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean the—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ooooohhhh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned, very slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something had pulled itself out of a gully behind them. It was humanoid, more or less. Red mud dripped from it. Strange noises issued from its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oooooohhhhshit!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pink Pig grabbed White Fang's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's an invisible blood-sucking ghost!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I can see it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pink Pig squinted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Red Army! They've come up outa the earth like everybody says!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">White Fang, who had several brain cells more than Pink Pig, and more importantly was only on his second cup of wine, took a closer look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It could be just one ordinary man with mud all over him,' he suggested. He raised his voice. 'Hey, you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure turned and tried to run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pink Pig nudged his friend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is he one of ours?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looking like that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's get him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos he's running away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let him run.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Maybe he's got money. Anyway, what's he running away for?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind slid down into another gully. Of all the luck! Soldiers should be where they were expected to be. What had happened to duty and honour and stuff like that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The gully had dead grass and moss in the bottom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood still and listened to the voices of the two men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air was stifling. It was as if the oncoming storm was pushing all the hot air in front of it, turning the plain into a pressure cooker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the ground creaked, and sagged suddenly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The faces of the absentee soldiers appeared over the edge of the gully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another creak and the ground sank another inch or two. Rincewind didn't dare breathe in, in case the extra weight of air made him too heavy. And it was very clear that the least activity, such as jumping, was going to make things worse...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Very carefully, he looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dead moss had given way. He seemed to be standing on a baulk of timber buried in the ground, but dirt pouring around it suggested that there was a hole beneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was going to give way any second n—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind threw himself forward. The ground fell away underneath so that, instead of standing on a slowly breaking piece of timber, he was hanging with his arms over what felt like another concealed log and, by the feel of it, one which was as riddled with rot as the first one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This one, possibly out of a desire to conform, began to sag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then jolted to a stop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The faces of the soldiers vanished backwards as the sides of the gully began to slide. Dry earth and small stones slid past Rincewind. He could feel them rattle on his boots and drop away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt, as an expert in these things, that he was over a depth. From his point of view, it was also a height.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The log began to shift again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This left Rincewind with, as he saw it, two options. He could let go and plunge to an uncertain fate in the darkness, or he could hang on until the timber gave way, and then plunge to an uncertain fate in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, to his delight, there was a third option. The toe of his boot touched something, a root, a protruding rock. It didn't matter. It took some of his weight. It took at least enough to put him in precarious equilibrium - not exactly safe, not exactly falling. Of course, it was only a temporary measure, but Rincewind had always considered that life was no more than a series of temporary measures strung together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pale yellow butterfly with interesting patterns on its wings fluttered along the gully and settled on the only bit of colour available, which turned out to be Rincewind's hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wood sagged slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Push off!' said Rincewind, trying not to use heavy language. 'Go away.''</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butterfly flattened its wings and sunned itself. Rincewind pursed his lips and tried to blow up his own nostrils.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Startled, the creature skittered into the air...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah!' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and, in response to its instincts in the face of a threat, moved its wings like <em class="calibre8">this</em> and <em class="calibre8">this</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bushes shivered. And around the sky, the towering clouds curved into unusual patterns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another cloud formed. It was about the size of an angry grey balloon. And it started to rain. Not rain generally, but specifically. Specifically on about a square foot of ground which contained Rincewind; specifically, on his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A very small bolt of lightning stung Rincewind on the nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah! So we have' - Pink Pig, appearing around the curve of the gully, hesitated a bit before continuing slightly more thoughtfully - 'a head in a hole... with a very small thunderstorm above it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it dawned on him that, storm or no storm, nothing was preventing him from cutting off significant parts. The only significant part available was a head, but that was fine by him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At which point, Rincewind's hat having absorbed enough moisture, the ancient wood gave way under the strain and plunged him to an uncertain fate in the darkness.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was utterly dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had been a painful confusion of tunnels and sliding dirt. Rincewind assumed - or the small part of him <em class="calibre8">that was not sobbing with fear</em> assumed - that the earth had caved in after him. Cave. That was a significant word. He was in a cave. Reaching out carefully, in case he felt something, he felt for something to feef.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a straight edge. It led to three more straight edges, going off at right angles. So... this meant slab.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The darkness was still a choking velvet shroud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slab meant that there was some other entrance, some proper entrance. Even now guards were probably hurrying towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps the Luggage was hurrying towards <em class="calibre8">them</em>. It had been acting very funny lately, that was for certain. He was probably better off without it. Probably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He patted his pockets, saying the mantra that even non-wizards invoke in order to find matches; that is. he said, 'Matches, matches, matches,' madly to himself, under his breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He found some, and scratched one desperately with his thumbnail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smoky yellow flame lit nothing except Rince-wind's hand and part of his sleeve.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ventured a few steps before it burned his fingers, and when it died it left a blue afterglow in the darkness of his vision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were no sounds of vengeful feet. There were no sounds at all. In theory there should be the drip of water, but the air felt quite dry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried another match, and this time raised it as high as he could and peered ahead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A seven-foot warrior smiled at him.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked up again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's going to piss down in a minute,' he said. 'Will you look at that sky?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were hints of purple and red in the mass, and the occasional momentary glow of lightning somewhere inside the clouds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know everything. Why's that cloud looking like that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked where Cohen was pointing. There was a yellowish cloud low on the horizon. Right around the horizon - one thin streak, as though the sun was trying to find a way through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be the lining?' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What lining?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Every cloud's supposed to have a silver one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but that's more like gold.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, gold's cheaper here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it me,' said Mr Saveloy, 'or is it getting wider?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Caleb was staring at the enemy lines.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's been a lot of blokes galloping about on their little horses,' he said. 'I hope they get a move on. We don't want to be here all day.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I vote we rushes 'em while they're not expectin' it,' said Hamish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hold on... hold on...' said Truckle. There was the sound of many gongs being beaten, and the crackling of fireworks. 'Looks like the bas— the lovechilds are moving.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank goodness for that,' said Cohen. He stood up and stubbed out his cigarette.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy trembled with excitement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do we sing a song for the gods before we go into battle?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can if you like,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, do we say any heathen chants or prayers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't think so,' said Cohen. He glanced up at the horizon-girdling band. It was unsettling him far more than the approaching enemy. It was wider now, but slightly paler. For just a moment he found himself wishing that there was one god or goddess somewhere whose temple he hadn't violated, robbed or burned down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't we bang our swords on our shields and utter defiance?' said the teacher hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Too late for that, really,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked so crestfallen at the lack of pagan splendour that the ancient barbarian was, to his own surprise, moved to add: 'But feel free, if that's what you want.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde drew their various swords. In Hamish's case, another axe was produced from under his rug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See you in Heaven!' said Mr Saveloy excitedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, right,' said Caleb, eyeing the line of approaching soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where there's feasting and young ladies and so forth!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, yeah,' said Boy Willie, testing the blade of his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And carousing and quaffing, I believe!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be,' said Vincent, trying to ease the tendon-itis in his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we'll do that thing, you know, where you throw the axes and cut ladies' plaits off!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, if you like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The actual feasting... Do they do anything vegetarian?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the advancing army screamed and charged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They rushed at the Horde, almost as fast as the clouds boiling in from every direction.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's brain unfroze slowly, in the darkness and silence of the hill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's a statue, he told himself. That's all it is. No problem there. Not even a particularly good one. Just a big statue of a man in armour. Look, there's a couple more, you can just see them at the edge of the light...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dropped the match and sucked his fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What he needed now was a wall. Walls had exits. True, they could also be entrances, but now there did not seem much danger of any guards hurrying in here. The air had an ancient smell, with a hint of fox and a slight trace of thunderstorms, but above all it tasted unused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He crept forward, testing each step with his foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there <em class="calibre8">was</em> light. A small blue spark jumped off Rincewind's finger.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen grabbed at his beard. It was straining away from his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy's fringe of hair stood out from his head and sparked at the ends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Static discharges!' he shouted, above the crackle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ahead of them the spears of the enemy glowed at the tips. The charge faltered. There was the occasional shriek as sparks leaped from man to man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, my,' he said. 'Will you look at <em class="calibre8">that</em>!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Tiny sparks flickered around Rincewind as he eased himself over the unseen floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The word <em class="calibre8">tomb</em> had presented itself for his consideration, and one thing Rincewind knew about large tombs was that their builders were often jolly inventive in the traps and spikes department. They also put in things like paintings and statues, possibly so that the dead had something to look at if they became bored.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's hand touched stone, and he moved carefully sideways. Now and again his feet touched something yielding and soft. He very much hoped it was mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, right at hand height, was a lever. It stuck out fully two feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now... it <em class="calibre8">could</em> be a trap. But traps were generally, well, traps. The first you knew about them was when your head was rolling along the corridor several yards away. And trap builders tended to be straightforwardly homicidal and seldom required victims to actively participate in their own destruction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind pulled it.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The yellow cloud sailed overhead in its millions, moving much faster on the wind they'd created than the slow beating of their wings would suggest. Behind them came the storm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Butterflies</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Both sides stopped as the creatures sleeted past. It was even possible to hear the rustle of their wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, Teach,' said Cohen. 'Explain <em class="calibre8">this</em> one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It, it, it could be a natural phenomenon,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Er... Monarch butterflies, for example, have been known to... er... to tell you the truth, I don't know...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cloud swarmed on towards the hill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not some kind of sign?' said Cohen. 'There must have been <em class="calibre8">some</em> temple I didn't rob.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The trouble with signs and portents,' said Boy Willie, 'is you never know who they're for. This'n could be a nice one for Hong and his pals.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then I'm nicking it,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't steal a message from the gods!' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you see it nailed down anywhere? No? Sure? Right. So it's mine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his sword as the stragglers fluttered past overhead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The gods smile on us!' he bellowed. 'Hahaha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hahaha?' whispered Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just to worry 'em,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced at the other members of the Horde. Each man nodded, very slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, lads,' he said quietly. 'This is it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... what do I do?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Think of something to make yourself good and angry. That gets the ole blood boiling. Imagine the enemy is everything you hate.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Head teachers,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sports masters!' shouted Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Boys who chew gum!' screamed Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at him, steam coming out of his ears already,' said Cohen. 'First one to the afterlife gets 'em in. Charge!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The yellow cloud thronged up the slopes of the hill and then, carried on the uprising wind, rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above it the storm rose too, piling up and up and spreading into a shape something like a hammer—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It struck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lightning hit the iron pagoda so hard that it exploded into white-hot fragments.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It is confusing for an entire army to be attacked by seven old men. No book of tactics is up to the task of offering advice. There is a tendency towards baffle-nent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers backed away in the face of the rush and then, driven by currents in the great mass of men, closed in behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A solid circle of shields surrounded the Horde. It buckled and swayed under the press of men, and also under the blows rained on it by Mr Saveloy's sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, fight!' he shouted. 'Smoke pipes at me, would you? You! That boy there! Answer me back, eh! Take that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked at Caleb, who shrugged. He'd seen berserk rages in his time, but nothing quite so incandescent as Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The circle broke as a couple of men tried to dart backwards and cannoned into the rank behind and then rebounded on to the swords of the Horde. One of Hamish's wheels caught a soldier a vicious blow on the knee and, as he bent over, one of Hamish's axes met him coming the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't speed. The Horde couldn't move very fast. But it <em class="calibre8">was</em> economy. Mr Saveloy had remarked on it. They were simply always where they wanted to be, which was never where someone's sword was. They let everyone else do the running around. A soldier would risk a slash in the direction of Truckle and find Cohen rising in front of him, grinning and swinging, or Boy Willie giving him a nod of acknowledgement and a stab. Occasionally one of the Horde took time to parry a blow aimed at Mr Saveloy, who was far too excited to defend himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pull back, you bloody fools!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong appeared behind the throng, his horse rearing, his helmet visor flung back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers tried to obey. Finally, the press eased a little, and then opened. The Horde were left in a widening ring of shields. There was something like silence, broken only by the endless thunder and the crackle of lightning on the hill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, pushing their way angrily through the soldiers, came an altogether different breed of warrior. They were taller, and heavier armoured, with splendid helmets and moustaches that looked like a declaration of war in themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of them glared at Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Orrrrr! Itiyorshu! Yutimishu</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wassat?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's a samurai,' said Mr Saveloy, wiping his forehead. 'The warrior caste. I think that's their formal challenge. Er. Would you like me to fight him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One samurai glared at Cohen. He pulled a scrap of silk out of his armour and tossed it into the air. His other hand grabbed the hilt of his long, thin sword...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was hardly even a hiss, but three shreds of silk tumbled gently to the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get back, Teach,' said Cohen slowly. 'I reckon this one's mine. Got another hanky? Thanks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The samurai looked at Cohen's sword. It was long, heavy and had so many notches it could have been used as a saw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll never do it,' he said. 'With that sword? Never.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen blew his nose noisily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You say?' he said. 'Watch this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The handkerchief soared into the air. Cohen gripped his sword...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd beheaded three upward-staring samurai before the handkerchief started to tumble. Other members of the Horde, who tended to think in much the same way as their leader, had accounted for half a dozen more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got the idea from Caleb,' said Cohen. 'And the message is: either fight or muck about, it's up to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you no honour?' screamed Lord Hong. 'Are you just a ruffian?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm a barbarian,' shouted Cohen. 'And the honour I got, see, is mine. I didn't steal it off'f someone else.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I had wanted to take you alive,' said Lord Hong. 'However, I see no reason to stick to this policy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Back, you scum!' he screamed. 'Right back! Let the bombardiers come forward!' He looked back at Cohen. His face was flushed. His spectacles were askew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong had lost his temper. And, as is always the case when a dam bursts, it engulfs whole countries.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers pulled back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde were, once again, in a widening circle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's a bombardier?' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, I believe it must mean people who fire some sort of projectile,' said Mr Saveloy. 'The word derives from—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, archers,' said Boy Willie, and spat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said THEY'RE GOING TO USE ARCHERS, Hamish!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Heheh, we never let archers stop us at the Battle of Koom Valley!' cackled the antique barbarian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Boy Willie sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was between dwarfs and trolls, Hamish,' he said. 'And you ain't either. So whose side were you on?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said WHOSE SIDE WERE YOU ON?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I were on the side of being paid money to fight,' said Hamish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Best side there is.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind lay on the floor with his hands over his ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sound of thunder filled the underground chamber. Blue and purple light shone so brightly that he could see it through his eyelids.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally the cacophony subsided. There were still the sounds of the storm outside, but the light had faded to a blue-white glow, and the sound into a steady humming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind risked rolling over and opening his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hanging from rusted chains in the roof were big glass globes. Each one was the size of a man, and lightning crackled and sizzled inside, stabbing at the glass, seeking a way out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At one time there must have been many more. But dozens of the big globes had fallen down over the years, and lay in pieces on the floor. There were still scores up there, swaying gently on their chains as the imprisoned thunderstorms fought for their freedom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air felt greasy. Sparks crawled over the floor and crackled on each angle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stood up. His beard streamed out as a mass of individual hairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lightning globes shone down on a round lake of, to judge from the ripples, pure quicksilver. In the centre was a low, five-sided island. As Rincewind stared, a boat came drifting gently around to his side of the pool, making little <em class="calibre8">slupslup</em> noises as it moved through the mercury.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was not a lot larger than a rowing boat and, lying on its tiny deck, was a figure in armour. Or possibly just the armour. If it <em class="calibre8">was</em> just empty armour, then it was lying in the arms-folded position of a suit of armour that has passed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind sidled around the silver lake until he reached a slab of what looked very much like gold, set in the floor in front of a statue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knew you got inscriptions in tombs, although he was never sure who it was who was supposed to read them. The gods, possibly, although surely they knew everything already? He'd never considered that they'd cluster round and say things like, 'Gosh, "Dearly Beloved" was he? I never knew that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This one simply said, in pictograms: One Sun Mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There wasn't anything about mighty conquests. There was no list of his tremendous achievements. There was nothing down there about wisdom or being the father of his people. There was no <em class="calibre8">explanation</em>. Whoever knows this name, it seemed to say, knows everything. And there was no admitting the possibility that anyone getting this far would not have heard the name of One Sun Mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The statue looked like porcelain. It had been painted quite realistically. One Sun Mirror seemed an ordinary sort of man. You would not have pointed him out in a crowd as Emperor material. But this man, with his little round hat and little round shield and little round men on little round ponies, had glued together a thousand warring factions into one great Empire, often using their own blood to do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked closer. Of course, it was just an impression, but around the set of the mouth and the look of the eyes there was an expression he'd last seen on the face of Ghenghiz Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the expression of someone who was absolutely and totally unafraid of anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little boat headed towards the far side of the lake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the globes flickered a little and then faded to red. It winked out. Another followed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had to get out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something else, though. At the foot of the statue, lying as if they'd just been dropped there, were a helmet, a pair of gauntlets, and two heavy-looking boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind picked up the helmet. It didn't look very strong, but it did look quite light. Normally he didn't bother with protective clothing, reasoning that the best defence against threatening danger was to be on another continent, but right now the idea of armour had its attractions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He removed his hat, put the helmet on, pulled down the visor, and then wedged the hat on top of the helmet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a flicker in front of his eyes and Rincewind was staring at the back of his own head. It was a grainy picture, and it was in shades of green rather than proper colours, but it was definitely the back of his own head he was looking at. People had told him what it looked like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised the visor and blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pool was still in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lowered the visor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There he was, about fifty feet away, with this helmet on his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved a hand up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure in the visor waved a hand up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around and faced himself. Yep. That was him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OK, he thought. A magic helmet. It lets you see yourself a long way away. Great. You can have fun watching yourself fall into holes you can't see because they're right up close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned around again, raised the visor and inspected the gloves. They seemed as light as the helmet but quite clumsy. You could hold a sword, but not much else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried one on. Immediately, with a faint sizzling noise, a row of little pictures lit up on the wide cuff. They showed soldiers. Soldiers digging, soldiers fighting, soldiers climbing...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. So... <em class="calibre8">magic</em> armour. Perfectly normal magic armour. It had never been very popular in Ankh-Morpork. Of course, it was light. You could make it as thin as cloth. But it tended to lose its magic without warning. Many an ancient lord's last words had been, 'You can't kill me because I've got magic aaargh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at the boots, with suspicious recollection of the trouble there had been with the University's prototype Seven League boots. Footwear which tried to make you take steps twenty-one miles long imposed unfortunate groinal strains; they'd got the things off the student just in time, but he'd still had to wear a special device for several months, and ate standing up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All right, but even <em class="calibre8">old</em> magic armour would be useful now. It wasn't as if it weighed much, and the mud of Hunghung hadn't improved what was left of his own boots. He put his feet into them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He thought: Well, so what is supposed to happen now?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He straightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And behind him, with the sound of seven thousand flower pots smashing together, the lightning still crackling over them, the Red Army came to attention.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Hex had grown a bit during the night. Adrian Turnip-seed, who had been on duty to feed the mice and rewind the clockwork and clean out the dead ants, had sworn that he'd done nothing else and that no-one had come in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But now, where there had been the big clumsy arrangement of blocks so that the results could be read, was a quill pen in the middle of a network of pulleys and levers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Watch,' said Adrian, nervously tapping out a very simple problem. 'It's come up with this after doing all those spells at suppertime...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ants scuttled. The clockwork spun. The springs and levers jerked so sharply that Ponder took a step back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The quill pen wobbled over to an inkwell, dipped, returned to the sheet of paper Adrian had put under the levers, and began to write.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It blots a bit,' he said, in a helpless tone of voice. 'What's <em class="calibre8">happening</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder had been thinking further about this. The latest conclusions hadn't been comforting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... we know that books containing magic become a little bit... sapient...' he began. 'And we've made a <em class="calibre8">machine</em> for...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean it's <em class="calibre8">alive</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, let's not get all occult about this,' said Ponder, trying to sound jovial. 'We're wizards, after all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen, you know that long problem in thaumic fields you wanted me to put in?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Well?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It gave me the answer at midnight,' said Adrian, his face pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, good, except that I didn't actually <em class="calibre8">give</em> it the problem until half past one, Ponder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're telling me you got the answer before you asked the question?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why <em class="calibre8">did</em> you ask the question, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought about it, and I thought maybe I had to. I mean, it couldn't have known what the answer was going to be if I didn't give it the problem, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good point. Er. You waited ninety minutes, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Adrian looked at his pointy boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... was hiding in the privy. Well, Redo from Start could—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, all right. Go and have something to eat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are we meddling with things we don't understand, Ponder?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder looked up at the gnomic bulk of the machine. It didn't seem threatening, merely... <em class="calibre8">other</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He thought: meddle first, understand later. You had to meddle a <em class="calibre8">bit</em> before you had anything to try to understand. And the thing was never, ever, to go back and hide in the Lavatory of Unreason. You have to try to get your mind around the Universe before you can give it a twist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps we shouldn't have given you a name. We didn't think about that. It was a joke. But we should have remembered that names are important. A thing with a name is a bit more than a thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Off you go, Adrian,' he said firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat down and carefully typed:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hello.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Things whirred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The quill wrote:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">+ + + ?????? + + + Hello + + + Redo From Start + + +</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Far above, a butterfly - its wings an undistinguished yellow, with black markings - fluttered through an open window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder began the calculations for the transfer between Hunghung and Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butterfly alighted for a moment on the maze of glass pipes. When it rose again, it left behind a very small blob of nectar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder typed carefully, far below.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small but significant ant, one of the scurrying thousands, emerged from a break in the tube and spent a few seconds sucking at the sweet liquid before going back to work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while, Hex gave an answer. Apart from one small but significant point, it was entirely correct.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With an echoing chorus of creaks and groans, the Red Army turned around too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it <em class="calibre8">was</em> red. It was the same colour, Rincewind realized, as the soil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd bumped into a few statues in the darkness. He hadn't realized that there were <em class="calibre8">this</em> many. They stretched, rank on rank, into the distant shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Experimentally, he turned around. Behind him, there was another chorus of stampings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few false starts he found that the only way to end up facing them was to take off the boots, turn, and put the boots on again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lowered the visor for a moment, and saw himself lowering the visor for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stuck up an arm. They stuck out their arms. He jumped up and down. They jumped up and down, with a crash that made the globes swing. Lightning sizzled from their boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt a sudden hysterical urge to laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched his nose. They touched their noses. He made, with terrible glee, the traditional gesture for the dismissal of demons. Seven thousand terracotta middle fingers stabbed towards the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to calm down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The word his mind had been groping for finally surfaced, and it was <em class="calibre8">golem</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were one or two of them, even in Ankh-Morpork. You were bound to get them in any area where you had wizards or priests of an experimental turn of mind. They were usually just figures made out of clay and animated with some suitable spell or prayer. They pottered about doing simple odd jobs, but they were not very fashionable these days. The problem was not putting them to work but stopping them from working; if you set a golem to digging the garden and then forgot about it, you'd come back to find it'd planted a row of beans 1500 miles long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down at one of the gloves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cautiously touched the little picture of a fighting soldier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sound of seven thousand swords being simultaneously unsheathed was like the tearing of a thick sheet of steel. Seven thousand points were pointed right at Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a step back. So did the army.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was in a place with thousands of artificial soldiers wearing swords. The fact that he appeared to have control of them was no great comfort. He'd theoretically had control of Rincewind for the whole of his life, and look what had happened to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at the little pictures again. One of them showed a soldier with two heads. When he touched it, the army turned about smartly. Ah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now to get out of here...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde watched the bustle among Lord Hong's men. Objects were being dragged to the front line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They don't look like archers to me,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Those things are Barking Dogs,' said Cohen. 'I should know. Seen 'em before. They're like a barrel full of fireworks, and when the fireworks are lit a big stone comes rushing out of the other end.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, would you hang around if someone had just lit a firework by your arse?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here, Teach, he said "arse",' complained Truckle. 'Look, on my bit of paper here it says you mustn't say—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got shields, haven't we?' said Mr Saveloy. 'I'm sure if we keep close together and put the shields over our heads we'll be as right as rain.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The stone's about a foot across and going very fast and it's red hot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not shields, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Cohen. 'Truckle, you push Hamish—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We won't get fifty yards, Ghenghiz,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Better fifty yards now than six feet in a minute, yes?' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bravo!' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong watched them. He saw the Horde hang their shields around the wheelchair to form a crude travelling wall, and saw the wheels begin to turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Still tamping the charges, o lord!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said <em class="calibre8">fire</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got to prime the Dogs, o lord.!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bombardiers worked feverishly, spurred on less by terror of Lord Hong than by the onrushing Horde.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy's hair streamed in the wind. He bounded through the dust, waving his sword and screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd never been so happy in all his life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So this was the secret at the heart of it all: to look death right in the face and charge... It made everything so utterly simple.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong threw down his helmet. 'Fire, you wretched peasants! You scum of the earth! Why must I ask twice! Give me that torch!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pushed a bombardier aside, crouched down beside a Dog, heaved on it so that the barrel was pointing at the oncoming Cohen, lifted the torch—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The earth heaved. The Dog reared and rolled sideways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A round red head, smiling faintly, rose out of the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were screams in the ranks as the soldiers looked down at the moving dirt under their boots, tried to run on a surface that was just shifting soil, and disappeared in the rising cloud of dust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground caved in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it caved out again as stricken soldiers climbed up one another to escape because, rising gently through the turmoil, was the soil in human shape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde skidded to a halt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're they? Trolls?' said Cohen. Ten of the figures were visible now, industriously digging at the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they stopped. One of them turned its gently smiling head this way and that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sergeant must have screamed a handful of archers into line, because a few arrows shattered on the terracotta armour, with absolutely no effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Other red warriors were climbing up behind the former diggers. They collided with them, with a sound of crockery. Then, as one man - or troll, or demon - they drew their swords, turned around, and headed towards Lord Hong's army.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few soldiers tried to fight them simply because there was too great a crowd behind them to run away They died.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that the red guards were good fighters. They were very mechanical, each one performing the same thrust, parry, slash, regardless of what their opponent was doing. But they were simply unstoppable. If their opponent escaped one of the blows but didn't get out of the way then he was just trodden on - and by the looks of things, the warriors were extremely heavy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it was the way the things <em class="calibre8">smiled</em> all the time that added to the terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, now, there's a thing,' Cohen said, feeling for his tobacco pouch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never seen trolls fight like that,' said Truckle. Rank after rank was walking up out of the hole, stabbing happily at the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The front row were moving in a cloud of dust and screams. It is hard for a big army to do anything quickly, and divisions trying to move forward to see what the trouble was were getting in the way of fleeing individuals seeking a hole to hide in and permanent civilian status. Gongs were banging and men were trying to shout orders, but no-one knew what the gongs were meant to mean or how the orders should be obeyed, because there didn't seem to be enough time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen finished rolling his cigarette, and struck a match on his chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' he said, to the world in general. 'Let's get that bloody Hong.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The clouds overhead were less fearsome now. There was less lightning. But there were still a lot of them, greeny-black, heavy with rain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But this is <em class="calibre8">amazing</em>!' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few drops hit the ground, leaving wide craters in the dirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, right,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A most strange phenomenon! Warriors rising out of the ground!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The craters joined up. It felt as though the drops were joining up as well. The rain began to pour down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno,' said Cohen, watching a ragged platoon flee past. 'Never been here before. Fraps this happens a lot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, it's just like that myth about the man who sowed dragons' teeth and terrible fighting skeletons came up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't believe <em class="calibre8">that</em>,' said Caleb, as they jogged after Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why not?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you sow dragons' teeth, you should get dragons. Noot fighting skeletons. What did it say on the packet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know! The myth never said anything about them coming in a packet!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Should've said "Comes up Dragons" on the packet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't believe myths,' said Cohen. 'I should know. Right... there he is...' he added, pointing to a distant horseman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whole plain was in turmoil now. The red warriors were only the start. The alliance of the five warlords was glass fragile in any case, and panicky flight was instantly interpreted as sneak attack. No-one paid any attention to the Horde. They didn't have any coloured pennants or gongs. They weren't traditional enemies. And, besides, the soil was now mud, and the mud flew, and everyone from the waist down was the same colour and this was rising.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're we doing, Ghenghiz?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're heading back for the palace.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos that's where Hong's gone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But there's this astonishing—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, Teach, I've seen walking trees and spider gods and big green things with teeth,' said Cohen. 'It's no good goin' around saying "astonishing" all the time, ain't that so, Truckle?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. D'you know, when I went after that Five-Headed Vampire Goat over in Skund they said I shouldn't on account of it being an endangered species? I said, yes, that was down to me. Were they grateful?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Huh,' said Caleb. 'Should've thanked you, giving them all those endangered species to worry about. Turn around and go home right now, soldier boy!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A group of soldiers, fighting to get away from the red warriors, skidded in the mud, stared in terror at the Horde, and headed off in a new direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truckle stopped for breath, rain streaming off his beard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can't be having with this running, though,' he said. 'Not and push Hamish's wheelchair in all this mud. Let's have a breather.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stopping for a breather?' said Cohen. 'My gods! I never thought I'd see the day! A <em class="calibre8">hero</em> having a rest? Did Voltan the Indestructible have a bit of a rest?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's having one now. He's dead, Ghenghiz,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, old Voltan?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't you know? And the Immortal Jenkins.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Jenkins isn't dead, I saw him only last year.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But he's dead now. All the heroes are dead, 'cept us. And I ain't too sure about me, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen splashed forward and snatched Caleb upright by his shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about Hrun? He can't be dead. He's half our age!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Last I heard he got a job. Sergeant of the Guard somewhere.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sergeant of the <em class="calibre8">Guard</em>?' said Cohen. 'What, for <em class="calibre8">pay</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... what, like, for <em class="calibre8">pay</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He told me he might make Captain next year. He said... he said it's a job with a pension.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen released his grip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's not many of us now, Cohen,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen spun around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, but there's never been many of us! And I ain't dyin'! Not if it means the world's taken over by bastards like Hong, who don't know what a chieftain is. Scum. That's what he called his soldiers. Scum. It's like that bloody civilized game you showed us, Teach!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Chess?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. The prawns are just there to be slaughtered by the other side! While the king just hangs around at the back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but the other side's <em class="calibre8">you</em>, Cohen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right! Right... well, <em class="calibre8">yes</em>, that's fine when I'm the <em class="calibre8">enemy</em>. But I don't shove men in front of me to get killed instead of me. And I never use bows and them dog things. When I kill someone it's up close and personal. Armies? Bloody tactics? There's only one way to fight, and that's everyone charging all at once, waving their swords and shouting! Now on your feet and let's get after him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's been a long morning, Ghenghiz,' said Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't give me that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could do with the lavatory. It's all this rain.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's get Hong first.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If he's hiding in the privy that's fine by me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached the city gates. They had been shut. Hundreds of people, citizens as well as guards, watched them from the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen waved a finger at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now I ain't gonna say this twice,' he said. 'I'm coming in, OK? It can be the easy way, or it can be the hard way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Impassive faces looked down at the skinny old man, and up at the plain, where the armies of the warlords fought one another and, in terror, the terracotta warriors. Down. Up. Down. Up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Cohen. 'Don't say afterwards I didn't <em class="calibre8">warn</em> youse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his sword and prepared to charge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wait,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Listen...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was shouting behind the walls, and some confused orders, and then more shouting. And then a couple of screams.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The gates swung open, pulled by dozens of citizens.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen lowered his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' he said, 'they've seen reason, have they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wheezing a little, the Horde limped through the gates. The crowd watched them in silence. Several guards lay dead. Rather more had removed their helmets and decided to opt for a bright new future in Civvy Street, where you were less likely to get beaten to death by an angry mob.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Every face watched Cohen, turning to follow him as flowers follow the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ignored them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Crowdie the Strong?' he said to Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't be. He was a picture of health when I saw him a coupla months ago. Going on a new quest and everything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What happened?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know the Terrible Man-eating Sloth of Clup?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The one they say guards the giant ruby of the mad snake god?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The very same. Well... it was.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd parted to let the Horde through. One or two people tried a cheer, but were shushed into silence. It was a silence that Mr Saveloy had only heard before in the most devout of temples.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a whispering, though, growing out of that watchful silence like bubbles in a pot of water on a hot fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It went like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">The Red Army. The Red Army</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about Organdy Sloggo? Still going strong down in Howondaland, last I heard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dead. Metal poisoning.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three swords through the stomach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">The Red Army</em>!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Slasher Mungo?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Presumed dead in Skund.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Presumed?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, they only found his head.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">The Red Army</em>!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde approached the inner gates of the Forbidden City. The crowd followed them at a distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These gates were shut, too. A couple of heavy-set guards were standing in front of them. They wore the expressions of men who'd been told to guard the gates and were going to guard the gates come what may. The military depends on people who will guard gates or bridges or passes come what may and there are often heroic poems written in their honour, invariably posthumously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gosbar the Wake?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Died in bed, I heard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not old Gosbar!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone's got to sleep some time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's not the only thing they've got to do, mister,' said Boy Willie. 'I <em class="calibre8">really</em> need the wossname.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there's the Wall.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not with everyone watching! That ain't... civilized.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen strode up to the guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not mucking about,' he said. 'OK? Would you rather die than betray your Emperor?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards stared ahead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right, fair enough.' Cohen drew his sword. A thought seemed to strike him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nurker?' he said. 'Big Nurker? Tough as old boots, him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fishbone,' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nurker? He once killed six trolls with a—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Choked on a fishbone in his gruel. I thought you knew. Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen stared at him. And then at his sword. And then at the guards. For a moment there was silence, broken only by the sound of the rain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Y'know, lads,' he said, in a voice so suddenly full of weariness that Mr Saveloy felt a pit opening up, here, at the moment of triumph, 'I was goin' to chop your heads off. But... what's the point, eh? I mean, when you get right down to it, why bother? What sort of difference does it make?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards still stared straight ahead. But their eyes were widening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll end up dead anyway, sooner or later,' Cohen went on. 'Well, that's about it. You live your life best way you can and then it don't actually matter, 'cos you're dead—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Cohen?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, look at me. Been chopping heads off my whole life and what've I got to show for it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cohen... '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards weren't just staring now. Their faces were dragging themselves into very creditable grimaces of fear. 'Cohen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think you should look round, Cohen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half a dozen red warriors were advancing up the street. The crowd had pulled right back and were watching in silent terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then a voice shouted: 'Extended Duration To The Red Army!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cries rose up here and there in the crowd. A young woman raised her hand in a clenched fist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Advance Necessarily With The People While Retaining Due Regard For Traditions!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Others joined her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Deserved Correction To Enemies!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've lost Mr Bunny!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The red giants clonked to a halt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at them!' said Mr Saveloy. 'They're not trolls! They move like some kind of engine! Doesn't that interest you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Cohen, vacantly. 'Abstract thinking is not a major aspect of the barbarian mental process. Now then, where was I?' He sighed. 'Oh, yes. You two... you'd rather die than betray your Emperor, would you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two men were rigid with fear now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen raised his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy took a deep breath, grabbed Cohen's sword arm and shouted:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Then open the gates and let him through</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a moment of utter silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy nudged Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Go on,' he hissed. 'Act like an Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What... you mean giggle, have people tortured, that sort of thing? Blow that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! Act like an Emperor ought to act!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen glared at Saveloy. Then he turned to the guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well done,' he said. 'Your loyalty does you... wossname... credit. Keep on like this and I can see it's promotion for both of you. Now let us all go inside or I will have my flowerpot men chop off your feet so you'll have to kneel in the gutter while you're looking for your head.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men looked at one another, threw down their swords and tried to kowtow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you can bloody well get up, too,' said Cohen, in a slightly nicer tone of voice. 'Mr Saveloy?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm Emperor now, am I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The... earth soldiers seem to be on our side. The <em class="calibre8">people</em> think you've won. We're all alive. I'd say we've won, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If I'm Emperor, I can tell everyone what to do, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, indeed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Properly. You know. Scrolls and stuff. Buggers in uniform blowing trumpets and saying. "This is what he wants you to do." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. You want to make a proclamation.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah. No more of this bloody kowtowing. It makes me squirm. No kowtowing by anyone to anyone, all right? If anyone sees me they can salute, or maybe give me some money. But none of this banging your head on the ground stuff. It gives me the willies. Now, dress that up in proper writing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right away. And—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hang on, haven't finished yet,' Cohen bit his lip in unaccustomed cogitation, as the red warriors lurched to a stop. 'Yeah. You can add that I'm letting all prisoners go free, unless they've done something really bad. Like attempted poisoning, for a start. You can work out the details. All torturers to have their heads cut off. And every, peasant can have a free pig, something like that. I'll leave you to put in all the proper curly bits about "by order" and stuff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked down at the guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get <em class="calibre8">up</em>, I said. I swear, the next bastard that kisses the ground in front of me is gonna get kicked in the antique chicken coops. OK? Now open the gates.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd cheered. As the Horde stepped inside the Forbidden City they followed, in a sort of cross between a revolutionary charge and a respectful walk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The red warriors stood outside. One of them raised a terracotta foot, which groaned a little, and walked towards the Wall until it bumped into it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The warrior staggered drunkenly for a while and then managed to get within a yard or two of the Wall without colliding with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It raised a finger and wrote, shakily, in red dust that turned to a kind of paint on the wet plaster:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">HELP HELP ITS ME IM OUT HERE ON THEE PLAIN HELP I CAN'T GET THIS BLODY ARMER OFF.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd surged along behind Cohen, shouting and singing. If he'd had a surfboard, he could have ridden on it. The rain drummed heavily on the roof and poured into the courtyards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why're they all so excited?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They think you're going to sack the palace,' said Mr Saveloy. 'They've heard about barbarians, you see. They want some of it. Anyway, they like the idea about the pig.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, you!' shouted Cohen to a boy struggling past under the weight of a huge vase. 'Get your thieving paws off my stuff! That's valuable, that is! It's a......'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's S'ang Dynasty,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right,' said the vase.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a S'ang Dynasty, that is! Put it back! And you lot back there—' He turned and waved his sword. 'Get those shoes off! You're scratching the floor! Look at the state of it already!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You never bothered about the floor yesterday,' Truckle grumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Tweren't my floor then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, it was,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not properly,' said Cohen. '<em class="calibre8">Rite</em> of conquest, that's the thing. Blood. People understand blood. You just walk in and take over and no-one takes it seriously. But seas of blood... Everyone understands that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mountains of skulls,' said Truckle approvingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look at history,' said Cohen. 'Whenever you - Hey, you, the man with the hat, that's my...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Inlaid mahogany <em class="calibre8">Shibo Yangcong-san</em> table,' murmured Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—so put it back, d'you hear? Yes, whenever you comes across a king where everyone says, "Oo, he was a good king all right," you can bet your sandals he was a great big bearded bastard who broke heads a lot and laughed about it. Hey? But some king who just passed decent little laws and read books and tried to look intelligent... "Oh," they say, "oh, he was all right, a bit wet, not what I'd call a proper king." That's people for you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen grinned at him and slapped him on the back so hard he stumbled into two women trying to carry off a bronze statue of Ly Tin Wheedle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't quite face it, Teach, can you? Can't get your mind round it? Don't worry about it. Basically, you ain't a barbarian. <em class="calibre8">Put the damn statue back, missus, or you'll feel the flat of my sword, so you will</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I thought we could do it without anyone getting hurt. By using our brains.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't. History don't work like that. Blood first, then brains.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mountains of skulls,' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's got to be a better way than fighting,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep. Lots of 'em. Only none of 'em work. Caleb, take those... those...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—fine Bhong jade miniatures—' muttered Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'—take them off that feller. He's got one under his hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another set of carved doors was swung open. This room was already crowded, but the people shuffled backwards as the doors parted and tried to look keen while avoiding catching Cohen's eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As they pulled away they left Six Beneficent Winds standing all alone. The court had become very good at this manoeuvre.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mountains of skulls,' said Truckle, not a man to let go in a hurry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. We saw the Red Army rise out of the ground, er, just as the legend foretold. Er. Truly you are the preincarnation of One Sun Mirror.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little taxman had the decency to look embarrassed. As speeches went it was on a dramatic level with the one that traditionally began, 'As you know, your father - the king—' Besides, he'd never believed in legends up to now - not even the one about the peasant who every year filed a scrupulously honest tax return.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, right,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He strode to the throne and stuck his sword in the floor, where it vibrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some of you are going to get your heads cut off for your own good,' he said. 'But I haven't decided who yet. And someone show Boy Willie where the privy is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No need,' said Boy Willie. 'Not after them big red statues turned up behind me so sudden.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mountains of—' Truckle began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno about mountains,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And where,' said Six Beneficent Winds tremulously, 'is the Great Wizard?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great Wizard,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, the Great Wizard who summoned the Red Army from the earth,' said the taxman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know anything about <em class="calibre8">him</em>,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd staggered forward as more people piled into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're coming!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A terracotta warrior clomped its way into the room, its face still wearing a very faint smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stopped, rocking a little, while water dripped off it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People had crouched back in terror. Except the Horde, Mr Saveloy noticed. Faced with unknown yet terrible dangers, the Horde were either angry or puzzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he cheered up. They weren't better, just different. They're all right facing huge terrible creatures, he told himself, but ask them to go down the street and buy a bag of rice and they go all to pieces...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's my move now, Teach?' Cohen whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you're Emperor,' said Mr Saveloy. 'I think you talk to it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'OK.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen stood up and nodded cheerfully at the terracotta giant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Morning,' he said. 'Nice bit of work out there. You and the rest of your lads can have the day off to plant geraniums in yourselves or whatever you do. Er. You got a Number One giant I ought to speak to?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The terracotta warrior creaked as it raised one finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it pressed two fingers against one forearm, then raised a finger again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone in the crowd started talking at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The giant tugged one vestigial ear with two fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What can this mean?' said Six Beneficent Winds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I find this a little hard to credit,' said Mr Saveloy, 'but it is an ancient method of communication used in the land of blood-sucking vampire ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can understand it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. I think so. You have to try to guess the word or phrase. It's trying to tell us... er... one word, two syllables. First syllable sounds like...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The giant cupped one hand and made circular, handle-turning motions with the other alongside it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Turning,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Winding? Reeling? Revolve? Grind? Grind? Chop? Mince—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The giant tapped its nose hurriedly and did a very heavy, noisy dance, bits of terracotta armour clanking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds like mince,' said Mr Saveloy. 'First syllable sounds like mince.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A ragged figure pushed its way through the crowd. It wore glasses, one lens of which was cracked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' it said, 'I've got an idea about that...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Fang and some of his more trusted warriors had clustered on the side of the hills. A good general always knows when to leave the battlefield, and as far as Lord Fang was concerned, it was when he saw the enemy coming towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men were shaken. They hadn't tried to face the Red Army. Those who had were dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We... regroup,' panted Lord Fang. 'And then we'll wait until nightfall and - What's that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a rhythmic noise coming from the bushes further up the slope, where sliding earth had left another bush-filled ravine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sounds like a carpenter, m'lord,' said one of the soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Up here? In the middle of a war? Go and see what it is!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man scrambled away. After a while there was a pause in the sawing noise. Then it started again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Fang had been trying to work out a fresh battle plan according to the Nine Useful Principles. He threw down his map.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why is that still going on? Where is Captain Nong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hasn't come back, m'lord.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then go and see what has happened to him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Fang tried to remember if the great military sage had ever had anything to say about fighting giant invulnerable statues. He—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sawing paused. Then it was replaced by the sound of hammering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Fang looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can I have an order obeyed around here?' he bellowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up his sword and scrambled up the muddy slope. The bushes parted ahead of him. There was a clearing. There was a rushing shape, on hundreds of little le—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a snap.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The rain was coming down so fast that the drops were having to queue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The red earth was hundreds of feet deep in places. It produced two or three crops a year. It was rich. It was fecund. It was, when wet, extremely sticky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The surviving armies had squelched from the field of battle, as red from head to toe as the terracotta men. Not counting those merely trodden on, the Red Army had not in fact killed very many people. Terror had done most of <em class="calibre8">their</em> work. Rather more soldiers had been killed in the brief inter-army battles and, in the scramble to escape, by their own sides.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The terracotta army had the field to itself. It was celebrating victory in various ways. Many guards were walking around in circles, wading through the clinging mud as if it was so much dirty air. A number were digging a trench, the sides of which were washing in on them in the thundering rain. A few were trying to climb walls that weren't there. Several, possibly as a result of the exertion following centuries of zero maintenance, had spontaneously exploded in a shower of blue sparks, the red-hot clay shrapnel being a major factor in the opposition's death count.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And all the time the rain fell, a solid curtain of water. It didn't look natural. It was as though the sea had decided to reclaim the land by air drop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind shut his eyes. Mud covered the armour. He couldn't make out the pictures any more, and that was something of a relief because he was pretty certain he was messing things up. You could see what any warrior was seeing - at least, presumably you could, if you knew what some of the odder pictures actually did and how to press them in the right order. Rincewind didn't, and in any case whoever had made the magic armour hadn't assumed it would be used in knee-deep mud during a vertical river. Every now and again it sizzled. One of the boots was getting hot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had started out so well! But there had been what he was coming to think of as the Rincewind factor. Probably some other wizard would have marched the army out and wouldn't have been rained on and even now would be parading through the streets of Hung-hung while people threw flowers and said, 'My word, there's a Great Wizard and no mistake.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some <em class="calibre8">other</em> wizard wouldn't have pressed the wrong picture and started the things digging.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He realized he was wallowing in self-pity. Rather more pertinently, he was also wallowing in mud. And he was sinking. Trying to pull a foot out was no use - it didn't work, and the other foot only went deeper, and got hotter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lightning struck the ground nearby. He heard it sizzle, saw the steam, felt the tingle of electricity and tasted the taste of burning tin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another bolt hit a warrior. Its torso exploded, raining a sticky black tar. The legs kept going for a few steps, and then stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Water poured past him, thick and red now that the river Hung was overflowing. And the mud continued to suck on his feet like a hollow tooth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something swirled past on the muddy water. It looked like a scrap of paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated, then reached out awkwardly with a gloved hand and scooped it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, as he'd expected, a butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you very much,' he said, bitterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The water drained through his fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He half closed his hand and then sighed and, as gently as he could, manoeuvred the creature on to a finger. Its wings hung damply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shielded it with his other hand and blew on the wings a few times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Go on, push off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butterfly turned. Its multi-faceted eyes glinted green for a moment and then it flapped its wings experimentally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stopped raining.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It started to snow, but only where Rincewind was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Rincewind. 'Yes indeed. Oh, thank you so very much.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Life was, he had heard, like a bird which flies out of the darkness and across a crowded hall and then through another window into the endless night again. In Rincewind's case it had managed to do something incontinent in his dinner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snow stopped. The clouds pulled back from the dome of the sky with astonishing speed, letting in hot sunlight which almost immediately made the mud steam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There you are! We've been looking everywhere!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried to turn, but the mud made that impossible. There was a wooden thump, as of a plank being laid down on wet ooze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Snow on his head? In bright sunshine? I said to myself, that's him all right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the thump of another plank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small avalanche slid off the helmet and slid down Rincewind's neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another thump, and a plank squelched into the mud beside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's me, Twoflower. Are you all right, old friend?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think my foot is being cooked, but apart from that I'm as happy as anything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I knew it would be you doing the charades,' said Twoflower, sticking his hands under the wizard's shoulders and hauling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got the "Wind" syllable?' said Rincewind. 'That was very hard to do, by remote control.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, none of us got that,' said Twoflower, 'but when it did "ohshitohshitohshit I'm going to die" everyone got <em class="calibre8">that</em> first go. Very inventive. Er. You seem to be stuck.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think it's the magic boots.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't you wiggle them off? This mud dries like - well, like terracotta in the sun. Someone can come along and dig them out afterwards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried to move his feet. There was some sub-mud bubblings and he felt his feet come free, with a muffled slurping noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, with considerable effort, he was sitting on the plank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry about the warriors,' he said. 'It looked so simple when I started out, and then I got confused with all the pictures and it was impossible to stop some of them doing things—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it was a famous victory!' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Cohen's been made Emperor!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He has?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, not made, no-one made him, he just came along and took it. And everyone says he's the pre-incarnation of the first Emperor and he says if you want to be the Great Wizard that's fine by him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry? You lost me there...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You led the Red Army, didn't you? You made them rise up in the Empire's hour of need?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I wouldn't exactly say that I—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So the Emperor wants to reward you. Isn't that nice?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How do you mean, reward?' said Rincewind, with deep suspicion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not sure, really. Actually, what he said was... ' Twoflower's eyes glazed as he tried to recall. 'He said, "You go and find Rincewind and say he might be a bit of a pillock but at least he's straight so he can be Chief Wizard of the Empire or whatever he wants to call it, 'cos I don't trust you foreign..." ' Twoflower squinted upwards as he tried to remember Cohen's precise words ' "... house of auspicious aspect... scent of pine trees... buggers." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words trickled into Rincewind's ear, slid up into his brain, and started to bang on the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Chief Wizard?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what he said. Well... actually what he said was he wanted you to be a blob of swallow's vomit, but that was because he used the low sad tone rather than the high questioning one. He definitely <em class="calibre8">meant</em> wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of the whole Empire?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something very bad is about to happen,' he said flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sky was quite blue now. A few citizens had ventured on to the battlefield to tend the wounded and retrieve the dead. Terracotta warriors stood at various angles, motionless as rocks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Any minute now,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't we get back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably a meteorite strike,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked up at the peaceful sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know me,' said Rincewind. 'Just when I'm getting a grip on something Fate comes along and jumps on my fingers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't <em class="calibre8">see</em> any meteorites,' said Twoflower. 'How long do we wait?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'll be something else, then,' said Rincewind. 'Someone will come leaping out, or there'll be an earthquake, or <em class="calibre8">something</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you insist,' said Twoflower, politely. 'Um. Do you want to wait for something horrible here or would you like to go back to the palace and have a bath and change your clothes and then see what happens?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind conceded that he might as well await a dreadful fate in comfort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's going to be a feast,' said Twoflower. 'The Emperor says he's going to teach everyone how to quaff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They made their way, plank by plank, back towards the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know, I swear you never told me that you were married.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure I did.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was, er, I was sorry to hear that your wife, er—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Things happen in war. I have two dutiful daughters.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened his mouth to say something but Twoflower's bright, brittle smile froze the words in his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They worked without speaking, picking up the planks behind them and extending the walkway in front.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looking on the bright side,' said Twoflower, breaking the silence, 'the Emperor said you could start your own University, if you wanted.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! No! Someone hit me with an iron bar, please!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said he's well in favour of education provided no-one makes him have one. He's been making proclamations like mad. The eunuchs have threatened to go on strike.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind's plank dropped on to the mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is it that eunuchs do,' he said, 'that they stop doing when they go on strike?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Serve food, make the beds, things like that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They run the Forbidden City, really. But the Emperor talked them round to his point of view.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said if they didn't get cracking right now he'd cut off everything else. Um, I think the ground's firm enough now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His own University. That'd make him... Arch-chancellor. Rincewind the Archchancellor pictured himself visiting Unseen University. He could have a hat with a really big point. He'd be able to be rude to everyone. He'd—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to stop himself from thinking like that. It'd all go wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course,' said Twoflower, 'it might be that the bad things have already happened to you. Have you considered that? Perhaps you're due something nice?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't give me any of that karma stuff,' said Rincewind. 'The wheel of fortune has lost a few spokes where I'm concerned.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's worth considering, though,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, that the rest of my life will be peaceful and enjoyable? Sorry. No. You wait. When my back's turned and - bang!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked around with some interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know why you think your life has been so bad,' he said. 'We had a lot of fun when we were younger. Hey, do you remember the time when we went over the edge of the world?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Often,' said Rincewind. 'Usually around 3 a.m.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that time we were on a dragon and it disappeared in mid-air?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know,' said Rincewind, 'sometimes a whole hour will go by when I <em class="calibre8">don't</em> remember that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that time we were attacked by those people who wanted to kill us?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Which of those one hundred and forty-nine occasions are you referring to?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Character building, that sort of thing,' said Two-flower, happily. 'Made me what I am today.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Rincewind. It was no effort, talking to Twoflower. The little man's trusting nature had no concept of sarcasm and a keen ability not to hear things that might upset him. 'Yes, I can definitely say it was that sort of thing that made me what I am today, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stepped inside the city. The streets were practically empty. Most people had flocked to the huge square in front of the palace. New Emperors tended towards displays of generosity. Besides, the news had got around that this one was different and was giving away free pigs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I heard him talking about sending envoys to Ankh-Morpork,' said Twoflower, as they dripped up the street. 'I expect there's going to be a bit of a fuss about that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was that man Disembowel-Meself-Honourably present at the time?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, as a matter of fact.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When you visited Ankh-Morpork, did you ever meet a man called Dibbler?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If those two ever shake hands I think there might be some sort of explosion.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you could go back, I'm sure,' said Twoflower. 'I mean, your new University will need all sorts of things and, well, I seem to recall that people in Ankh-Morpork were very keen on gold.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind gritted his teeth. The image wouldn't go away - of Archchancellor Rincewind buying the Tower of Art and getting them to number all the stones and send it back to Hunghung, of Arch-chancellor Rincewind hiring all the faculty as college porters, of Archchancellor Rincewi...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pardon?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't encourage me to think like that! The moment I think that it's all going to be worthwhile something dreadful will happen!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a movement behind him, and a knife suddenly pressed against his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Great Blob of Swallow's Vomit?' said a voice by his ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There,' said Rincewind. 'You see? Run away! Don't stand there, you bloody idiot! <em class="calibre8">Run</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower stared for a moment and then turned and scampered away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let him go,' said the voice. 'He doesn't matter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hands pulled him into the alley. He had a vague impression of armour, and mud; his captors were skilled in the way of dragging a prisoner so that he had no chance to get a foothold anywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he was flung on to the cobbles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He does not look so great to me,' said an imperious voice. 'Look up, Great Wizard!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was some nervous laughter from the soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You fools!' raged Lord Hong. 'He is just a man! Look at him! Does he look so powerful? He is just a man who has found some old trickery! And we will find out how great he is without his arms and legs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong leaned down. There was mud on his face and a wild glint in his eyes. 'We shall see what your barbarian Emperor can do <em class="calibre8">then</em>, won't we?' He indicated the sullen group of mud-encrusted soldiers. 'You know, they half believe you really <em class="calibre8">are</em> a great wizard? That's superstition, I'm afraid. Very useful most of the time, damn inconvenient on occasion. But when we march you into the square and show them how great you really are, I think your barbarian will not have so very long left. What are these?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snatched the gloves off Rincewind's hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Toys,' he said. 'Made things. The Red Army are just machines, like mills and pumps. There's no magic there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tossed them aside and nodded at one of the guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now,' said Lord Hong, 'let us go to the Imperial Square.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'How'd you like to be governor of Bhangbhangduc and all these islands around here?' said Cohen, as the Horde pored over a map of the Empire. 'You like the seaside, Hamish?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The doors of the Throne Room were flung open. Twoflower scuttled in, trailed by One Big River.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lord Hong's got Rincewind! He's going to kill him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He can wizard himself out of it, can't he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! He hasn't got the Red Army any more! He's going to <em class="calibre8">kill</em> him! You've got to <em class="calibre8">do</em> something!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ach, well, you know how it is with wizards,' said Truckle. 'There's too many of 'em as it is—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.' Cohen picked up his sword and sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But, Cohen—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I said <em class="calibre8">come on</em>. We ain't like Hong. Rincewind's a weasel, but he's <em class="calibre8">our</em> weasel. So are you coming or what?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong and his group of soldiers had almost reached the bottom of the wide steps to the palace when the Horde emerged. The crowd surrounded them, held back by the soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong held Rincewind tightly, a knife at his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Emperor,' he said, in Ankh-Morporkian. 'We meet again. Check, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's he mean?' Cohen whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He thinks he has you cornered,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How's he know I won't just let the wizard die?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Psychology of the individual, I'm afraid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It doesn't make any sense!' Cohen shouted. 'If you kill him, you'll be dead yourself in seconds. I shall see to it pers'nally!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed, no,' said Lord Hong. 'When your... Great Wizard... is dead, when people see how easily he dies... how long will you be Emperor? You won by trickery!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are your terms?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There are none. You can give me nothing I cannot take myself.' Lord Hong grabbed Rincewind's hat from one of the guards and rammed it on to Rincewind's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is yours,' he hissed. ' "Wizzard" hah! You can't even spell! Well, <em class="calibre8">wizzard</em>? Aren't you going to say something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong smiled. 'Ah, that's better,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, noooooo!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very good!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aarrgh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong blinked. For a moment the figure in front of him appeared to stretch to twice its height and then have its feet snap up under its chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it disappeared, with a small thunderclap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence in the square, except for the sound of several thousand people being astonished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong waved his hand vaguely in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lord Hong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned. There was a short man behind him, covered in grime and mud. He wore a pair of spectacles, one lens of which was cracked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong hardly glanced at him. He prodded the air again, unwilling to believe his own senses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, Lord Hong,' said the apparition, 'but do you by any chance remember Bes Pelargic? About six years ago? I think you were quarrelling with Lord Tang? There was something of a skirmish. A few streets destroyed. Nothing vary major.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How dare you address me!' he managed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It doesn't really matter,' said Twoflower. 'But it's just that I'd have liked you to have remembered. I got... quite angry about it. Er. I want to fight you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> want to fight me? Do you know who you are talking to? Have you any <em class="calibre8">idea</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes. Oh, yes,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong's attention finally focused. It had not been a good day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You foolish, stupid little man! You don't even have a sword!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oi! Four-eyes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both turned. Cohen threw his sword. Two-flower caught it clumsily and was almost knocked over by the weight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why did you do that?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Man wants to be a hero. That's fine by me,' said Cohen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He'll be slaughtered!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Might do. Might do. Might do. He might do that, certainly,' Cohen conceded. 'That's not up to me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Father!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lotus Blossom grabbed Twoflower's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He <em class="calibre8">will</em> kill you! Come away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly took her father's other arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No good purpose will be served,' she said. 'Come on. We can find a better time—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He killed your mother,' said Twoflower flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'His soldiers did.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That makes it worse. He didn't even know. Please get back, both of you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, Father—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you don't both do what you're told I shall get angry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord Hong drew his long sword. The blade gleamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you know <em class="calibre8">anything</em> about fighting, clerk?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, not really,' said Twoflower. 'But the important thing is that someone should stand up to you. Whatever happens to them afterwards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Horde were watching with considerable interest. Hardened as they were, they had a soft spot for pointless bravery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Lord Hong, looking around at the silent crowd. 'Let <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> see what happens.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air crackled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Barking Dog dropped on to the flagstones in front of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was very hot. Its string was alight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief sizzle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the world went white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After some time, Twoflower picked himself up. He seemed to be the first one upright; those people who hadn't flung themselves to the ground had fled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All that remained of Lord Hong was one shoe, which was smouldering. But there was a smoking trail all the way up the steps behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Staggering a little, Twoflower followed the trail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A wheelchair was on its side, one wheel spinning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He peered over it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You all right, Mr Hamish?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rest of the Horde were crouched in a circle at the top of the steps. Smoke billowed around them. In its continuing passage, the ball had set fire to part of the palace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you hear me, Teach?' Cohen was saying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Course he can't hear you! How can he hear you, looking like that?' said Truckle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He could still be alive,' said Cohen defiantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He is <em class="calibre8">dead</em>, Cohen. Really, really <em class="calibre8">dead</em>. Alive people have more <em class="calibre8">body</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you're all alive?' said Twoflower. 'I saw it bark straight at you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We got out of the way,' said Boy Willie. 'We're good at getting out of the way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poor ole Teach didn't have our experience of not dyin',' said Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's Hong?' he said grimly. 'I'm going to—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's dead too, Mr Cohen,' said Twoflower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded, as if this was all perfectly normal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We owe it to ole Teach,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He was a good sort,' Truckle conceded. 'Funny ideas about swearing, mind you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He had brains. He cared about stuff! And he might not have lived like a barbarian, but he's bloody well going to be buried like one, all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In a longship, set on fire,' suggested Boy Willie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In a big pit, on top of the bodies of his enemies,' suggested Caleb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good heavens, all of 4B?' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In a burial mound,' suggested Vincent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really, I wouldn't put you to the trouble,' said Mr Saveloy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">In</em> a longship set on fire, <em class="calibre8">on top</em> of a heap of the bodies of his enemies, <em class="calibre8">under</em> a burial mound,' said Cohen flatly. 'Nothing's too good for ole Teach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I assure you, I feel fine,' said Mr Saveloy. 'Really, I - er... Oh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">RONALD SAVELOY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' he said. 'Yes. I see.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IF YOU WOULD CARE TO STEP THIS WAY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The palace and the Horde froze and faded gently, like a dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's funny,' said Mr Saveloy, as he followed Death. 'I didn't expect it to be this way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FEW PEOPLE EVER EXPECT IT TO BE ANY WAY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gritty black sand crunched under what Mr Saveloy supposed he should still call his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where is this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE DESERT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was brilliantly lit, and yet the sky was midnight-black. He stared at the horizon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How big is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FOR SOME, VERY BIG. FOR LORD HONG, FOR INSTANCE, IT CONTAINS A LOT OF IMPATIENT GHOSTS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought Lord Hong didn't believe in ghosts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HE MAY DO SO NOW. A LOT OF GHOSTS BELIEVE IN LORD HONG.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Er. What happens now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on, come on, haven't got all day! Step lively, man!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy turned around and looked up at the woman on the horse. It was a big horse but, then, it was a big woman. She had plaits, a hat with horns on it, and a breastplate that must have been a week's work for an experienced panelbeater. She gave him a look that was not unkind but had impatience in every line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Says here Ronald Saveloy,' she said. 'The what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone I pick up,' said the woman, leaning down, 'is called "Someone <em class="calibre8">the</em> Something". What <em class="calibre8">the</em> are you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry, I—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll put you down as Ronald the Apologetic, then. Come on, hop up, there's a war on, got to be going.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where to?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Says here quaffing, carousing, throwing axes at young women's hair?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, er, I think perhaps there's been a bit of a—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, old chap, are you coming or what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy looked around at the black desert. He was totally alone. Death had gone about his essential business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let her pull him up behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have they got a library, perhaps?' he asked hopefully, as the horse rose into the dark sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know. No-one's ever asked.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Evening classes, perhaps. I could start evening classes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What in?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um. Anything, really. Table manners, perhaps. Is that allowed?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose so. I don't think anyone's ever asked that, either.' The Valkyrie turned in the saddle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You <em class="calibre8">sure</em> you're coming to the right afterlife?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Saveloy considered the possibilities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On the whole,' he said, 'I think it's worth a try.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd in the square were getting to their feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at all that remained of Lord Hong, and at the Horde.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly and Lotus Blossom joined their father. Butterfly ran her hand over the cannon, looking for the trick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see,' said Twoflower, a little indistinctly because he couldn't quite hear the sound of his own voice yet, 'I <em class="calibre8">told</em> you he was the Great Wizard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Butterfly tapped him on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about those?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small procession was picking its way through the square. In front, Twoflower recognized, was something he'd once owned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was a very cheap one,' he said, to no-one in particular. 'I always thought there was something a little warped about it, to tell you the truth.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was followed by a slightly larger Luggage. And then, in descending order of size, four little chests, the smallest being about the size of a lady's handbag. As it passed a prone Hunghungese who'd been too stunned to flee, it paused to kick him in the ear before hurrying after the others.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked at his daughters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can they do that?' he said. 'Make new ones? I thought it needed carpenters.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose it learned many things in Ankh-More-Pork,' said Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggages clustered together in front of the steps. Then <em class="calibre8">the</em> Luggage turned around and, after one or two sad backward glances, or what might have been glances if it had eyes, cantered away. By the time it reached the far side of the square it was a blur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, you! Four-eyes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower turned, Cohen was advancing down the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I remember you,' he said. 'D'you know anything about Grand Viziering?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not a thing, Mr Emperor Cohen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. The job's yours. Get cracking. First thing, I want a cup of tea. Thick enough to float a horseshoe. Three sugars. In five minutes. Right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A cup of tea <em class="calibre8">in five minutes</em>?' said Twoflower. 'But that's not long enough for even a short ceremony!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cohen put a companionable arm around the little man's shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a <em class="calibre8">new</em> ceremony,' he said. 'It goes: "Tea up, luv. Milk? Sugar? Doughnut? Want another one?" And you could tell the eunuchs,' he added, 'that the Emperor is a lit'ral-minded man and used the phrase "heads will roll".'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twoflower's eyes gleamed behind his cracked glasses. Somehow, he liked the sound of that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked as though he was living in interesting times—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Luggages sat quietly, and waited.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The gods relaxed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A draw,' he announced. 'Oh, yes. You have appeared to win in Hunghung <em class="calibre8">but</em> you have had to lose your most valuable piece, is that not so?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry?' said the Lady. 'I don't quite follow you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Insofar as I understand this... physics...' said Fate, 'I cannot believe that anything could be materialized in the University without dying almost instantly. It is one thing to hit a snowdrift, but quite another to hit a wall.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never sacrifice a pawn,' said the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can you hope to win without sacrificing the occasional pawn?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I never play to win.' She smiled. 'But I do play not to lose. Watch...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Council of Wizards gathered in front of the wall at the far end of the Great Hall and stared up at the thing which now covered half of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Interesting effect,' said Ridcully, eventually. 'How fast do you think it was going?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'About five hundred miles an hour,' said Ponder. 'I think perhaps we were a little enthusiastic. Hex says—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'From a standing start to five hundred miles an hour?' said the Lecturer in Recent Runes. 'That must have come as a shock.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Ridcully, 'but I suppose it's a mercy for the poor creature that it was such a brief one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And, of course, we must all be thankful that it wasn't Rincewind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of the wizards coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dean stood back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But what <em class="calibre8">is</em> it?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was,' said Ponder Stibbons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We could have a look in the Bestiaries,' said Ridcully. 'Shouldn't be hard to find. Grey. Long hind feet like a clown's boots. Rabbit ears. Tail long and pointy. And, of course, not many creatures are twenty feet across, one inch thick and deep fried, so that narrows it down a bit.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't want to cast a shadow on things,' said the Dean, 'but if this isn't Rincewind, then where is he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure Mr Stibbons can give us an explanation <em class="calibre8">as</em> to why his calculations went wrong,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder's mouth dropped open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he said, as sourly as he dared, 'I probably forgot to take into account that there's three right angles in a triangle, didn't I? Er. I'll have to try and work everything back, but I think that somehow a lateral component was introduced into what should have been a bidirectional sortilegic transfer. It's probably that this was most pronounced at the effective median point, causing an extra node to appear in the transfers at a point equidistant to the other two as prediction in Flume's Third Equation, and Turffe's Law would see to it that the distortion would stabilize in such a way as to create three separate points, each moving a roughly equal mass one jump around the triangle. I'm not sure why the third mass arrived here at such speed, but I think the increased velocity might have been caused by the sudden creation of the node. Of course, it might have been going quite fast anyway. But I shouldn't think it is cooked in its natural state.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you know,' said Ridcully, 'I think I actually understood some of that? Certainly some of the shorter words.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, it's perfectly simple,' said the Bursar brightly. 'We sent the... dog thing to Hunghung. Rincewind was sent to some other place. And this creature was sent here. Just like Pass the Parcel.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see?' said Ridcully to Stibbons. 'You're using language the <em class="calibre8">Bursar</em> can understand. And <em class="calibre8">he's</em> been chasing the dried frog all morning.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian staggered into the hall under the weight of a large atlas.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oook.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At least you can show us where you think our man is,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ponder took a ruler and a pair of compasses out of his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, if we assume Rincewind was in the middle of the Counterweight Continent,' he said, 'then all we need do is draw—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oook!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I assure you, I was only going to use pencil—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Eeek</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All we have to do is <em class="calibre8">imagine</em>, all right, a third point equidistant from the other two... er... that looks like somewhere in the Rim Ocean to me, or probably over the Edge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't see that thing in the sea,' said Ridcully, glancing up at the recently laminated corpse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In that case, it must have been in the other direction—'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards crowded round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There <em class="calibre8">was</em> something there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' '<em class="calibre8">S</em> not even properly drawn in,' said the Dean.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's because no-one's sure it really exists,' said the Senior Wrangler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It floated in the middle of the sea, a tiny continent by Discworld standards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "XXXX",' Ponder read.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They only put that on the map because no-one knows what it's really called,' said Ridcully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we've sent him there,' said Ponder. 'A place that we're not even certain <em class="calibre8">exists</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, we know it exists now,' said Ridcully. 'Must do. Must do. Must be a pretty rich land, too, if the rats grow that big.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll go and see if we can bring—' Ponder began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no,' said Ridcully firmly. 'No, thank you very much. Next time it might be an elephant whizzing over our heads, and those things make a splash. No. Give the poor chap a rest. We'll have to think of something else...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rubbed his hands together. 'Time for dinner, I feel,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um,' said the Senior Wrangler. 'Do you think we were wise to light that string when we sent the thing back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly,' said Ridcully, as they strolled away. 'No-one could say we didn't return it in exactly the same state as it arrived...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Hex dreamed gently in its room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards were right. Hex couldn't think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There weren't words, yet, for what it could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even Hex didn't know what it could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it was going to find out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The quill pen scritched and blotted its way over a fresh sheet of paper and drew, for no good reason, a calendar for the year surmounted by a rather angular picture of a beagle, standing on its hind legs.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground was red, just like at Hunghung. But whereas that was a kind of clay so rich that leaving a chair on the lawn meant that you had four small trees by nightfall, this ground was sand that looked as if it had got red by being baked in a million-year summer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were occasional clumps of yellowed grass and low stands of grey-green trees. But what there was everywhere was heat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was especially noticeable in the pond under the ghost gums. It was steaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure emerged from the clouds, absentmindedly picking the burnt bits off his beard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rincewind waited until his own personal world had stopped spinning and concentrated on the four men who were watching him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were black with lines and whorls painted on their faces and had, between them, about two square feet of clothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were three reasons why Rincewind was no racist. He'd ended up in too many places too suddenly to develop that kind of mind. Besides, if he'd thought about it much, most of the really dreadful things that had happened to him had been done by quite pale people with big wardrobes. Those were two of the reasons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The third was that these men, who were just rising from a half-crouching position, were all holding spears pointing at Rincewind and there is something about the sight of four spears aimed at your throat that causes no end of respect and the word 'sir' to arise spontaneously in the mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the men shrugged, and lowered his spear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'G'day, bloke,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This meant only three spears, which was an improvement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. This isn't Unseen University, is it, sir?' said Rincewind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other spears stopped pointing at him. The men grinned. They had very white teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Klatch? Howondaland? It looks like Howonda-land,' said Rincewind hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know them blokes, bloke,' said one of the men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other three clustered around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What'll we call him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's Kangaroo Bloke. No worries there. One minute a kangaroo, next minute a bloke. The old blokes say that sort of thing used to happen all the time, back in the Dream.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckoned he'd look better than that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One way to tell.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man who was apparently the leader of the group advanced on Rincewind with the kind of grin reserved for imbeciles and people holding guns, and held out a stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was flat, and had a bend in the middle. Someone had spent a long time making rather nice designs on it in little coloured dots. Somehow, Rincewind wasn't at all surprised to see a butterfly among them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hunters watched him expectantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, yes,' he said. 'Very good. Very good workmanship, yes. Interesting pointillistic effect. Shame you couldn't find a straighter bit of wood.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the men laid down his spear, and squatted down and picked up a long wooden tube, covered with the same designs. He blew into it. The effect was not unpleasant. It sounded like bees would sound if they'd invented full orchestration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um,' said Rincewind. 'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a test, obviously. They'd given him this bent piece of wood. He had to do something with it. It was clearly very important. He'd—</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, no. He'd say something or do something, wouldn't he, and then they'd say, yes, you are the Great Bloke or something, and they'd drag him off and it'd be the start of another Adventure, i.e., a period of horror and unpleasantness. Life was full of tricks like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, this time Rincewind wasn't going to fall for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I want to go home,' he said. 'I want to go back home to the Library where it was nice and quiet. And I don't know where I am. And I don't care what you do to me, right? I'm not going to have any kind of adventure or start saving the world again and you can't trick me into it with mysterious bits of wood.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gripped the stick and flung it away from him with all the force he could still muster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stared at him as he folded his arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not playing,' he said. 'I'm stopping right here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were still staring. And now they were grinning, too, at something behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt himself getting quite annoyed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you understand? Are you listening?' he said. 'That's the last time the universe is going to trick Rincewi—'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><strong class="calibre9">
     <em class="calibre8">The End</em>
    </strong></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">People are always a little confused about this, as they are in the case of miracles. When someone is saved from certain death by a strange concatenation of circumstances, they say that's a miracle. But of course if someone is <em class="calibre8">killed</em> by a freak chain of events - the oil spilled just <em class="calibre8">there</em>, the safety fence broken just <em class="calibre8">there</em> - that must <em class="calibre8">also</em> be a miracle. Just because it's not nice doesn't mean it's not miraculous.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Usually about six inches across.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">People wonder how this works, since a terrestrial elephant would be unlikely to bear a revolving load for any length of time without some serious friction burns. But you may as well ask why the axle of a planet doesn't squeak, or where love goes, or what sound yellow makes.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Which is like Fuzzy Logic, only less so.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">All <em class="calibre8">virtual</em> lectures took place in room 3B, a room not locatable on any floor plan of the University and also, it was considered, infinite in size.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">A policy adopted by almost all managers and several notable I gods.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Such as 'Ouch!', 'Aargh!', 'Give me back my money, you scoundrel!' and 'You call these chestnuts? I call them little balls of charcoal, that's what I call them!'</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">And often the phrase 'a bastard you don't want to cross, and I didn't say that'.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">The UU college porters. Renowned among the entire faculty for the hardness of their skulls, their obtuseness in the face of reasonable explanation, and their deeply held conviction that the whole place would collapse without them.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Except during extreme flood conditions it is extremely difficult to make much progress on the Ankh, and the University rowing teams compete by running over the surface of the river. This is generally quite safe provided they don't stand in one place for very long and, of course, it eats the soles off their boots.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">This at least was true. Rincewind could scream for mercy in nineteen languages, and just scream* in another forty-four.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">* This is important. Inexperienced travellers might think that 'Aargh!' is universal, but in Betrobi it means 'highly enjoyable' and' in Howondaland it means, variously, 'I would like to eat your foot', 'Your wife is a big hippo' and 'Hello, Thinks Mr Purple Cat.' One particular tribe has a fearsome reputation for cruelty merely because prisoners appear, to them, to be shouting 'Quick! Extra boiling oil!'</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Named after the wizard Sangrit Heisenberg and not after the more famous Heisenberg who is renowned for inventing what is <em class="calibre8">possibly</em> the finest lager in the world.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">There was still a certain amount of confusion on this point.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">KIDS! Only very silly wizards with bad sinus trouble do this <em class="calibre8">Sensible</em> people go off to a roped-off enclosure where they can watch a heavily protected man, in the middle distance, light (with the aid of a very long pole) something that goes 'fsst'. And then they can shout 'Hooray'.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">The Ankh-Morpork name for the Counterweight Continent and its nearby islands. It means 'place where the gold comes from'.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">In fact, he'd be about the seventy-third to admit it.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Such as Dish of Glistening Brown Stuff, Dish of Glistening Crunchy Orange Stuff, and Dish of Soft White Lumps.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">According to the history books. However, in common with every other young student, Rincewind had hopefully looked up 'figgin' in the dictionary and found it was 'a small bun with currants in it'. This meant that either the language had changed a little over the years, or that there really was some horrifying aspect to suspending a man alongside a teacake.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">A dismal prospect, especially when the horses keep sinking.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">When you're on a desert island, your appetites can become a bit confused.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Much later, Rincewind had to have therapy for this. It involved a pretty woman, a huge plate of potatoes and a big stick with a nail in it.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">'Your feet shall be cut off and be buried several yards from your body so your ghost won't walk.'</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">Except on posters with legends like 'Wanted - Dedd'.</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">The only sound the Horde had ever heard in temples was people shouting 'Infidel! He has stolen the Jewelled Eye of - your wife is a big hippo!'</div>
   
    
   
   <div class="paragraph">'Friendly stab', as it is formally known.</div>
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

