---
layout: page
title: "The Light Fantastic"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-the-light-fantastic_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<div class="calibre1"><h3 class="calibre2">Annotation</h3><div class="paragraph">In <em class="calibre3">The Light Fantastic</em> only one individual can save the world from a disastrous collision. Unfortunately, the hero happens to be the singularly inept wizard Rincewind, who was last seen falling off the edge of the world…</div>
</div><hr class="calibre4"/><ul class="calibre5"><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36216865">The Light Fantastic</a></li><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337890">notes</a><ul class="calibre7"><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337893">1</a></li><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337907">2</a></li><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337919">3</a></li><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337930">4</a></li><li class="calibre6"><a href="#TOC_id36337944">5</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36216865" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36216866" class="calibre9"></a>The Light Fantastic <br class="calibre10"/>
by Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">The sun rose slowly, as if it wasn’t sure it was worth all the effort.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another Disc day dawned, but very gradually, and this is why.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When light encounters a strong magical field it loses ail sense of urgency. It slows right down. And on the Discworld the magic was embarrassingly strong, which meant that the soft yellow light of dawn flowed over the sleeping landscape like the caress of a gentle lover or, as some would have it, like golden syrup. It paused to fill up valleys. It piled up against mountain ranges. When it reached Cori Celesti, the ten mile spire of grey stone and green ice that marked the hub of the Disc and was the home of its gods, it built up in heaps until it finally crashed in great lazy tsunami as silent as velvet, across the dark landscape beyond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a sight to be seen on no other world.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Of course, no other world was carried through the starry infinity on the backs of four giant elephants, who A’ere themselves perched on the shell of a giant turtle. His name—or Her name, according to another school of thought—was Great A’Tuin; he—or, as it might be, she—will not take a central role in what follows but it is vital to an understanding of the Disc that he—or she—is there, down below the mines and sea ooze and fake fossil bones put there by a Creator with nothing better to do than upset archeologists and give them silly ideas.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin the star turtle, shell frosted with frozen methane, pitted with meteor craters, and scoured with asteroidal dust. Great A’Tuin, with eyes like ancient seas and a brain the size of a continent through which thoughts moved like little glittering glaciers. Great A’Tuin of the great slow sad flippers and star-polished carapace, labouring through the galactic night under the weight of the Disc. As large as worlds. As old as Time. As patient as a brick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Actually, the philosophers have got it all wrong. Great A’Tuin is in fact having a great time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin is the only creature in the entire universe that knows exactly where it is going.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Of course, philosophers have debated for years about where Great A’Tuin might be going, and have often said how worried they are that they might never find out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They’re due to find out in about two months. And then they’re <em class="calibre3">really</em> going to worry...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something else that has long worried the more imaginative philosophers on the Disc is the question of Great A’Tuin’s sex, and quite a lot of time and trouble has been spent in trying to establish it once and for all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In fact, as the great dark shape drifts past like an endless tortoiseshell hairbrush, the results of the latest effort are just coming into view.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tumbling past, totally out of control, is the bronze shell of the Potent Voyager, a sort of neolithic spaceship built and pushed over the edge by the astronomer-priests of Krull, which is conveniently situated on the very rim of the world and proves, whatever people say, that there <em class="calibre3">is</em> such a thing as a free launch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Inside the ship is Twoflower, the Disc’s first tourist. He had recently spent some months exploring it and is now rapidly leaving it for reasons that are rather complicated but have to do with an attempt to escape from Krull.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This attempt has been one thousand per cent successful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But despite all the evidence that he may be the Disc’s <em class="calibre3">last</em> tourist as well, he is enjoying the view.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Plunging along some two miles above him is Rincewind the wizard, in what on the Disc passes for a spacesuit. Picture it as a diving suit designed by men who have never seen the sea. Six months ago he was a perfectly ordinary failed wizard. Then he met Twoflower, was employed at an outrageous salary as his guide, and has spent most of the intervening time being shot at, terrorised, chased and hanging from high places with no hope of salvation or, as is now the case, dropping from high places.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He isn’t looking at the view because his past life keeps flashing in front of his eyes and getting in the way. He is learning why it is that when you put on a spacesuit it is vitally important not to forget the helmet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A lot more could be included now to explain why these two are dropping out of the world, and why Twoflower’s Luggage, last seen desperately trying to follow him on hundreds of little legs, is no ordinary suitcase, but such questions take time and could be more trouble than they are worth. For example, it is said that someone at a party once asked the famous philosopher Ly Tin Weedle ‘Why are you here?’ and the reply took three years.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What is far more important is an event happening way overhead, far above A’Tuin, the elephants and the rapidly-expiring wizard. The very fabric of time and space is about to be put through the wringer.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">The air was greasy with the distinctive feel of magic, and acrid with the smoke of candles made of a black wax whose precise origin a wise man wouldn’t inquire about.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something very strange about this room deep in the cellars of Unseen University, the Disc’s premier college of magic. For one thing it seemed to have too many dimensions, not exactly visible, just hovering out of eyeshot. The walls were covered with occult symbols, and most of the floor was taken up by the Eightfold Seal of Stasis, generally agreed in magical circles to have all the stopping power of a well-aimed half brick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The only furnishing in the room was a lectern dark wood, carved into the shape of a bird—well, to be frank, into the shape of a winged thing it is probably best not to examine too closely—and on the lectern, fastened to it by a heavy chain covered in padlocks, was a book.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A large, but not particularly impressive, book. Other books in the University’s libraries had covers inlaid with rare jewels and fascinating wood, or bound with dragon skin. This one was just a rather tatty leather. It looked the sort of book described in library catalogues as ‘slightly foxed’, although it would be more honest to admit that it looked as though it had been badgered, wolved and possibly beared as well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Metal clasps held it shut. They weren’t decorated, they were just very heavy—like the chain, which didn’t so much attach the book to the lectern as tether it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked like the work of someone who had a pretty definite aim in mind, and who had spent most of his life making training harness for elephants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The air thickened and swirled. The pages of the book began to crinkle in a quite horrible, deliberate way, and blue light spilled out from between them. The silence of the room crowded in like a fist, slowly being clenched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Half a dozen wizards in their nightshirts were taking turns to peer in through the little grille in the door. No wizard could sleep with this sort of thing going on—the build-up of raw magic was rising through the university like a tide.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right,’ said a voice. What’s going on? And why wasn’t I summoned?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder Weatherwax, Supreme Grand Conjuror of the Order of the Silver Star, Lord Imperial of the Sacred Staff, Eighth Level Ipsissimus and 304th Chancellor of Unseen University, wasn’t simply an impressive sight even in his red nightshirt with the hand-embroidered mystic runes, even in his long cap with the bobble on, even with the Wee Willie Winkie candlestick in his hand. He even managed to very nearly pull it off in fluffy pompom slippers as well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Six frightened faces turned towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, you <em class="calibre3">were</em> summoned, lord,’ said one of the under-wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s why you’re here,’ he added helpfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean why wasn’t I summoned <em class="calibre3">before?’</em> snapped Galder, pushing his way to the grille.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, before who, lord?’ said the wizard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder glared at him, and ventured a quick glance through the grille.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The air in the room was now sparkling with tiny flashes as dust motes incinerated in the flow of raw magic. The Seal of Stasis was beginning to blister and curl up at the edges.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The book in question was called the Octavo and, quite obviously, it was no ordinary book.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There are of course many famous books of magic. Some may talk of the Necrotelicomnicon, with its pages made of ancient lizard skin; some may point to the Book of Going Forth Around Elevenish, written by a mysterious and rather lazy Llamaic sect; some may recall that the Bumper Fun Grimoire reputedly contains the one original joke left in the universe. But they are all mere pamphlets when compared with the Octavo, which the Creator of the Universe reputedly left behind—with characteristic absent-mindedness—shortly after completing his major work.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The eight spells imprisoned in its pages led a secret and complex life of their own, and it was generally believed that —</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder’s brow furrowed as he stared into the troubled room. Of course, there were only seven spells now. Some young idiot of a student wizard had stolen a look at the book one day and one of the spells had escaped and lodged in his mind. No-one had ever managed to get to the bottom of how it had happened. What was his name, now? Winswand?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Octarine and purple sparks glittered on the spine of the book. A thin curl of smoke was beginning to rise from the lectern, and the heavy metal clasps that held the book shut were definitely beginning to look strained.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why are the spells so restless?’ said one of the younger wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder shrugged. He couldn’t show it, of course, but he was beginning to be really worried. As a skilled eighth-level wizard he could see the half-imaginary shapes that appeared momentarily in the vibrating air, wheedling arid beckoning. In much the same way that gnats appear before a thunderstorm, really heavy build-ups of magic always attracted things from the chaotic Dungeon Dimensions—nasty Things, all misplaced organs and spittle, forever searching for any gap through which they might sidle into the world of men [<a href="#FbAutId_1" title="They won’t be described, since even the pretty ones looked like the offspring of an octopus and a bicycle. It is well known that things from undesirable universes are always seeking an entrance into this one, which is the psychic equivalent of handy for the buses and closer to the shops."><sup class="calibre11">1</sup></a>].</div>
<div class="paragraph">This had to be stopped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I shall need a volunteer,’ he said firmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a sudden silence. The only sound came from behind the door. It was the nasty little noise of metal parting under stress.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very well, then,’ he said. ‘In that case I shall need some silver tweezers, about two pints of cat’s blood, a small whip and a chair —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It is said that the opposite of noise is silence. This isn’t true. Silence is only the absence of noise. Silence would have been a terrible din compared to the sudden soft implosion of noiselessness that hit the wizards with the force of an exploding dandelion clock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A thick column of spitting light sprang up from the book, hit the ceiling in a splash of flame, and disappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder stared up at the hole, ignoring the smouldering patches in his beard. He pointed dramatically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To the upper cellars!’ he cried, and bounded up the stone stairs. Slippers flapping and nightshirts billowing he other wizards followed him, falling over one another in their eagerness to be last.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, they were all in time to see the fireball of occult potentiality disappear into the ceiling of the room above.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urgh,’ said the youngest wizard, and pointed to the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room had been part of the library until the magic had drifted through, violently reassembling the possibility particles of everything in its path. So it was reasonable to assume that the small purple newts had been part of the floor and the pineapple custard may once have been some books. And several of the wizards later swore that the small sad orang outang sitting in the middle of it all looked very much like the head librarian.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder stared upwards. ‘To the kitchen!’ he bellowed, wading through the custard to the next flight of stairs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No-one ever found out what the great cast-iron cooking range had been turned into, because it had broken down a wall and made good its escape before the dishevelled party of wild-eyed mages burst into the room. The vegetable chef was found much later hiding in the soup cauldron, gibbering unhelpful things like The knuckles! The horrible knuckles!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last wisps of magic, now somewhat slowed, were disappearing into the ceiling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘To the Great Hall!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The stairs were much wider here, and better lit. Panting and pineapple-flavoured, the fitter wizards got to the top by the time the fireball had reached the middle of the huge draughty chamber that was the University’s main hall. It hung motionless, except for the occasional small prominence that arched and spluttered across its surface.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wizards smoke, as everyone knows. That probably explained the chorus of coffin coughs and sawtooth wheezes that erupted behind Galder as he stood appraising the situation and wondering if he dare look for somewhere to hide. He grabbed a frightened student.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Get me seers, farseers, scryers and withinlookmen!’ he barked. ‘I want this studied!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something was taking shape inside the fireball. Galder shielded his eyes and peered at the shape forming in front of him. There was no mistaking it. It was the universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was quite sure of this, because he had a model of it in his study and it was generally agreed to be far more impressive than the real thing. Faced with the possibilities offered by seed pearls and silver filigree, the Creator had been at a complete loss.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the tiny universe inside the fireball was uncannily—well, real. The only thing missing was colour. It was all in translucent misty white.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was Great A’Tuin, and the four elephants, and the Disc itself. From this angle Galder couldn’t see the surface very well, but he knew with cold certainty that it would be absolutely accurately modelled. He could, though, just make out a miniature replica of Cori Celesti, upon whose utter peak the world’s quarrelsome and somewhat bourgeois gods lived in a palace of marble, alabaster and uncut moquette three-piece suites they had chosen to call Dunmanifestin. It was always a considerable annoyance to any Disc citizen with pretensions to culture that they were ruled by gods whose idea of an uplifting artistic experience was a musical doorbell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little embryo universe began to move slowly, tilting...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder tried to shout, but his voice refused to come out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gently, but with the unstoppable force of an explosion, the shape expanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He watched in horror, and then in astonishment, as it passed through him as lightly as a thought. He held out a hand and watched the pale ghosts of rock strata stream through his fingers in busy silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin had already sunk peacefully below floor level, larger than a house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards behind Galder were waist deep in seas. A boat smaller than a thimble caught Galder’s eye for a oment before the rush carried it through the walls and away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To the roof!’ he managed, pointing a shaking finger skywards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Those wizards with enough marbles left to think with and enough breath to run followed him, running through continents that sleeted smoothly through the solid stone.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It was a still night, tinted with the promise of dawn. A crescent moon was just setting. Ankh-Morpork, largest city in the lands around the Circle Sea, slept.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That statement is not really true.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the one hand, those parts of the city which normally concerned themselves with, for example, selling vegetables, shoeing horses, carving exquisite small jade ornaments, changing money and making tables, on the whole, slept. Unless they had insomnia. Or had got up in the night. as it might be, to go to the lavatory. On the other hand, many of the less law-abiding citizens were wide awake and, for instance, climbing through windows that didn’t, t belong to them, slitting throats, mugging one another, listening to loud music in smoky cellars and gener,erally having a lot more fun. But most of the animals were asleep, except for the rats. And the bats, too, of course. As far as the insects were concerned...</div>
<div class="paragraph">The point is that descriptive writing is very rarely entireliy accurate and during the reign of Olaf Quimby II is Patrician of Ankh some legislation was passed in a determined attempt to put a stop to this sort of thing and introduce some honesty into reporting. Thus, if a legend said of a notable hero that ‘all men spoke of his prowess’ any bard who valued his life would add hastily ‘except for a couple of people in his home village who thought he was a liar, and quite a lot of other people who had never really heard of him.’ Poetic simile was strictly limited to statements like ‘his mighty steed was as fleet as the wind n a fairly calm day, say about Force Three,’ and any loose talk about a beloved having a face that launched a thousand ships would have to be backed by evidence that the object of desire did indeed look like a bottle of champagne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Quimby was eventually killed by a disgruntled poet during an experiment conducted in the palace grounds to prove the disputed accuracy of the proverb The pen is mightier than the sword,’ and in his memory it was amended to include the phrase ‘only if the sword is very small and the pen is very sharp.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">So. Approximately sixty-seven, maybe sixty-eight per cent, of the city slept. Not that the other citizens creeping about on their generally unlawful occasions noticed the pale tide streaming through the streets. Only the wizards, used to seeing the invisible, watched it foam across the distant fields.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Disc, being flat, has no real horizon. Any adventurous sailors who got funny ideas from staring at eggs and oranges for too long and set out for the antipodes soon learned that the reason why distant ships sometimes looked as though they were disappearing over the edge of the world was that they <em class="calibre3">were</em> disappearing over the edge of the world.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But there was still a limit even to Galder’s vision in the mist-swirled, dust-filled air. He looked up. Looming high over the University was the grim and ancient Tower of Art, said to be the oldest building on the Disc, with its famous spiral staircase of eight thousand, eight hundred and eighty-eight steps. From its crenelated roof, the haunt of ravens and disconcertingly alert gargoyles, a wizard might see to the very edge of the Disc. After spending ten minutes or so coughing horribly, of course.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sod that,’ he muttered. ‘What’s the good of being a wizard, after all? Avyento, thessalousl I would fly! To me, spirits of air and darkness!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He spread a gnarled hand and pointed to a piece of crumbling parapet. Octarine fire sprouted from under his nicotine-stained nails and burst against the otting stone far above.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It fell. By a finely calculated exchange of velocities Ga.cer rose, nightshirt flapping around his bony legs. Higher and higher he soared, hurtling through the pale night like a, like a—all right, like an elderly but powerful wizard being propelled upwards by an expertly judged thumb on the scales of the universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He landed in a litter of old nests, caught his balance, and stared down at the vertiginous view of a Disc dawn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At this time of the long year the Circle Sea was almost on the sunset side of Cori Celesti, and as the daylight sloshed down into the lands around Ankh-Morpork the shadow of the mountain scythed across the landscape like the gnomon of God’s sundial. But nightwards, racing the slow light towards the edge of the world, a line of white mist surged on. There was a crackling of dry twigs behind him. He turned to see Ymper Trymon, second in command of the Order, who had been the only other wizard able to keep up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder ignored him for the moment, taking care only to keep a firm grip on the stonework and strengthen his personal spells of protection. Promotion was slow in a profession that traditionally bestowed long life, and it was accepted that younger <em class="calibre3">wizards would frequently seek</em> advancement via dead men’s curly shoes, having previosly emptied them of their occupants. Besides, there was something disquieting about young Trymon. He didn’t smoke, only drank boiled water, and Galder had the nasty suspicion that he was clever. He didn’t smile often enough, and he liked figures and the sort of organisation charts that show lots of squares with arrows pointing:o other squares. In short, he was the sort of man who could use the word ‘personnel’ and mean it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The whole of the visible Disc was now covered with a shmmering white skin that fitted it perfectly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder looked down at his own hands and saw them covered with a pale network of shining threads that ollowed every movement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He recognised this kind of spell. He’d used them himself. But his had been smaller—much smaller.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a Change spell,’ said Trymon. The whole world is being changed.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some people, thought Galder grimly, would have had the decency to put an exclamation mark on the end of a statement like that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the faintest of pure sounds, high and sharp, like the breaking of a mouse’s heart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What was that?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon cocked his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘C sharp, I think,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder said nothing. The white shimmer had vanished, and the.first sounds of the waking city began to filter up to the two wizards. Everything seemed exactly the same as it had before. All that, just to make things stay the same?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He patted his nightshirt pockets distractedly and finally found what he was looking for lodged behind his ear. He put the soggy dogend in his mouth, called up mystical fire from between his fingers, and dragged hard on the wretched rollup until little blue lights flashed in front of his eyes. He coughed once or twice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was thinking very hard indeed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was trying to remember if any gods owed him any favours.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">In fact the Gods were as puzzled by all this as the wizards were, but they were powerless to do anything and in any case were engaged in an eons-old battle with the Ice Giants, who had refused to return the lawnmower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But some clue as to what actually had happened might be found in the fact that Rincewind, whose past life had just got up to a quite interesting bit when he was fifteen, suddenly found himself not dying after all but hanging upside down in a pine tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He got down easily by dropping uncontrollably from branch to branch until he landed on his head in a pile of pine needles, where he lay gasping for breath and wishing he d been a better person.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somewhere, he knew, there had to be a perfectly logical connection. One minute one happens to be dying, having dropped off the rim of the world, and the next one is upside down in a tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As always happened at times like this, the Spell rose up in his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind had been generally reckoned by his tutors to be a natural wizard in the same way that fish are natural mountaineers. He probably would have been thrown out of Unseen University anyway—he couldn’t remember spells and smoking made him feel ill—but what had really caused trouble was all that stupid business about sneaking into the room where the Octavo was chained and opening it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And what made the trouble even <em class="calibre3">worse</em> was that no-one could figure out why all the locks had temporarily become unlocked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The spell wasn|t;sa demanding lodger. It just sat there like an old toad at the bottom of a pond. But whenever Rincewind was feeling really tired or very afraid it tried to get itself said. No-one:knew what would happen if one of the Eight Great Spells was said by itself, but the general Agreement was that the best place from which to watch the effects would be the next universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a weird thought to have, lying on a heap of pine needles after just falling off the edge of the world, but Rincewind had a feeling that the spell wanted to keep him alive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Suits me,’ he thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat up and looked at the trees. Rincewind was a city wizard and, although he was aware that there were various differences among types of tree by which their nearest and dearest could tell them apart, the only thing he knew for certain was that the end without the leaves on fitted nto the ground. There were far too many of them, arranged with absolutely no sense of order. The place hadn’t been swept for ages.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He remembered something about being able to tell where you were by looking at which side of a tree the moss grew on. These trees had moss everywhere, and wooden warts, and scrabbly old branches; if trees were people, these trees would be sitting in rocking chairs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave the nearest one a kick. With unerring aim it dropped an acorn on him. He said ‘Ow.’ The tree, in a voice like a very old door swinging open, said, ‘Serves you right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a long silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then Rincewind said, ‘Did you say that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And that too?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’ He thought for a bit. Then he tried, ‘I suppose you wouldn’t happen to know the way out of the forest, possibly, by any chance?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No. I don’t get about much,’ said the tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Fairly boring life, I imagine,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I wouldn’t know. I’ve never been anything else,’ said the tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at it closely. It seemed pretty much like every other tree he’d seen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you magical?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No-one’s ever said,’ said the tree, ‘I suppose so.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind thought: I can’t be talking to a tree. If I was talking to a tree I’d be mad, and I’m not mad, so trees can’t talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Goodbye,’ he said firmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey, don’t go,’ the tree began, and then realised the hopelessness of it all. It watched him stagger off through the bushes, and settled down to feeling the sun on its leaves, the slurp and gurgle of the water in its roots, and the very ebb and flow of its sap in response to the natural tug of the sun and moon. Boring, it thought. What a trange thing to say. Trees can be bored, of course, beetles do it all the time, but I don’t think that was what he was trying to mean. And: can you actually be anything else? In fact Rincewind never spoke to this particular tree again, but from that brief conversation it spun the basis of the first tree religion which, in time, swept the forests of the world. Its tenet of faith was this: a tree that was a good tree, and led a clean, decent and upstanding life, could be assured of a future life after death. If it was very good indeed it would eventually be reincarnated as five thousand rolls of lavatory paper.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">A few miles away Twoflower was also getting over his surprise at finding himself back on the Disc. He was sitting on the hull of the Potent Voyager as it gurgled gradually under the dark waters of a large lake, surrounded by trees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Strangely enough, he was not particularly worried. Twoflower was a tourist, the first of the species to evolve on the Disc, and fundamental to his very existence was the rock-hard belief that nothing bad could really happen to him because he was <em class="calibre3">not involved;</em> he also believed that anyone could understand anything he said provided he spoke loudly and slowly, that people were basically trustworthy, and that anything could be sorted out among men of goodwill if they just acted sensibly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the face of it this gave him a survival value marginally less than, say, a soap herring, but to Rincewind’s amazement it all seemed to work and the little man’s total obliviousness to all forms of danger somehow made danger so discouraged that it gave up and went away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Merely being faced with drowning stood no chance. Twoflower was quite certain that in a well-organised society people would not be allowed to go around getting drowned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was a little bothered, though, about where his Luggage had got to. But he comforted himself with the nowledge that it was made of sapient pearwood, and ought to be intelligent enough to look after itself...</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">In yet another part of the forest a young shaman was undergoing a very essential part of his training. He had eaten of the sacred toadstool, he had smoked the holy rhizome, he had carefully powdered up and inserted into various orifices the mystic mushroom and now, sitting crosslegged under a pine tree, he was concentrating firstly on making contact with the strange and wonderful secrets at the heart of Being but mainly on stopping the top of his head from unscrewing and floating away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Blue four-side triangles pinwheeled across his vision. Occasionally he smiled knowingly at nothing very much and said things like ‘Wow’ and ‘Urgh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a movement in the air and what he later described as ‘like, a sort of explosion only backwards, you know?’, and suddenly where there had only been nothing there was a large, battered, wooden chest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It landed heavily on the leafmould, extended dozens of little legs, and turned around ponderously to look at the shaman. That is to say, it had no face, but even through the mycological haze he was horribly aware that it was looking at him. And not a nice look, either. It was amazing how baleful a keyhole and a couple of knotholes could be.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To his intense relief it gave a sort of wooden shrug, and set off through the trees at a canter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With superhuman effort the shaman recalled the correct sequence of movements for standing up and even managed a couple of steps before he looked down and gave up, having run out of legs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind, meanwhile, had found a path. It wound about a good deal, and he would have been happier if it had been cobbled, but following it gave him something to do.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Several trees tried to strike up a conversation, but Rincewind was nearly certain that this was not normal behaviour for trees and ignored them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The day lengthened. There was no sound but the murmur of nasty little stinging insects, the occasional crack of a falling branch, and the whispering of the trees discussing religion and the trouble with squirrels. Rincewind began to feel very lonely. He imagined himself living in the woods forever, sleeping on leaves and eating... and eating... whatever there was to eat in woods. Trees, he supposed, and nuts and berries. He would have to...</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There, coming up the path, was Twoflower—dripping wet, but beaming with delight. The Luggage trotted along behind him (anything made of the wood would follow its owner anywhere and it was often used to make luggage for the grave goods of very rich dead kings who wanted to be sure of starting a new life in the next world with clean underwear).</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed. Up to now, he’d thought the day couldn’t possibly get worse.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It began to rain a particularly wet and cold rain. Rincewind and Twoflower sat under a tree and watched it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why are we here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, some say that the Creator of the Universe made the Disc and everything on it, others say that its all a very complicated story involving the testicles of the Sky God and the milk of the Celestial Cow, and some even hold that we’re all just due to the total random accretion of probability particles. But if you mean why are we <em class="calibre3">here</em> as opposed to falling off the Disc, I haven’t the faintest idea. It’s probably all some ghastly mistake.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh. Do you think there’s anything to eat in this forest?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said the wizard bitterly, us.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve got some acorns, if you like,’ said the tree helpfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They sat in damp silence for some moments.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind, the tree said—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Trees can’t talk,’ snapped Rincewind. ‘It’s very important to remember that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But you just heard—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed. Took,’ he said. It’s all down to simple biology, isn’t it? If you’re going to talk you need the right equipment, like lungs and lips and, and—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Vocal chords,’ said the tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah, them,’ said Rincewind. He shut up and stared gloomily at the rain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘<em class="calibre3">I</em> thought wizards knew all about trees and wild food and things,’ said Twoflower reproachfully. It was very seldom that anything in his voice suggested that he thought of Rincewind as anything other than a magnificent enchanter, and the wizard was stung into action.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I do, I do,’ he snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, what kind of tree is this?’ said the tourist. Rincewind looked up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Beech,’ he said firmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Actually—’ began the tree, and shut up quickly. It had caught Rincewind’s look.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Those things up there look like acorns,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, well, this is the sessile or heptocarpic variety,’ said Rincewind. The nuts look very much like acorns, in fact. They can fool practically anybody.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gosh,’ said Twoflower, and, What’s that bush over there, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Mistletoe.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But it’s got thorns and red berries!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’ said Rincewind sternly, and stared hard at him. Twoflower broke first.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nothing,’ he said meekly. ‘I must have been misinformed.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But there’s some big mushrooms under it. Can you eat them?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at them cautiously. They were, indeed, very big, and had red and white spotted caps. They were in fact a variety that the local shaman (who at this point was some miles away, making friends with a rock) would only eat after first attaching one leg to a large stone with a rope. There was nothing for it but to go out in the rain and look at them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He knelt down in the leafmould and peered under the cap. After a while he said weakly, ‘No, no good to eat at all.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’ called Twoflower. ‘Are the gills the wrong shade of yellow?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, not really...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I expect the stems haven’t got the right kind of fluting, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They look okay, actually.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The cap, then, I expect the cap is the wrong colour,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not sure about that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well then, why can’t you eat them?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind coughed. It’s the little doors and windows,’ he said wretchedly, ‘it’s a dead giveaway.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Thunder rolled across Unseen University. Rain poured over its roofs and gurgled out of its gargoyles, although one or two of the more cunning ones had scuttled off to shelter among the maze of tiles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Far below, in the Great Hall, the eight most powerful wizards on the Discworld gathered at the angles of a ceremonial octogram. Actually they probably weren’t the most powerful, if the truth were known, but they certainly had great powers of survival which, in the highly competitive world of magic, was pretty much the same thing. Behind every wizard of the eighth rank were half a dozen eventh rank wizards trying to bump him off, and senior wizards had to develop an inquiring attitude to, for example, scorpions in their bed. An ancient proverb summed it up: when a wizard is tired of looking for broken glass in his dinner, it ran, he is tired of life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The oldest wizard, Greyhald Spold of the Ancient and Truly Original Sages of the Unbroken Circle, leaned heavily on his carven staff and spake thusly:</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Get on with it, Weatherwax, my feet are giving me gyp.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder, who had merely paused for effect, glared at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very well, then, I will be brief —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Jolly good.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">We all sought guidance as to the events of this morning. Can anyone among us say he received it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards looked sidelong at one another. Nowhere outside a trades union conference fraternal benefit night can so much mutual distrust and suspicion be found as among a gathering of senior enchanters. But the plain fact was that the day had gone very badly. Normally informative demons, summoned abruptly from the Dungeon Dimensions, had looked sheepish and sidled away when questioned. Magic mirrors had cracked. Tarot cards had mysteriously become blank. Crystal balls had gone all cloudy. Even tealeaves, normally scorned by wizards as frivolous and unworthy of contemplation, had clustered together at the bottom of cups and refused to move.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In short, the assembled wizards were at a loss. There was a general murmur of agreement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And therefore I propose that we perform the Rite of AshkEnte,’ said Galder dramatically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had to admit that he had hoped for a better response, something on the lines of, well, ‘No, not the Rite of AshkEnte! Man was not meant to meddle with such things!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">In fact there was a general mutter of approval.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good idea.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Seems reasonable.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Get on with it, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Slightly put out, he summoned a procession of lesser wizards who carried various magical implements into the hall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It has already been hinted that around this time there was some disagreement among the fraternity of wizards about how to practise magic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Younger wizards in particular went about saying that it was time that magic started to update its image and that they should all stop mucking about with bits of wax and bone and put the whole thing on a properly-organised basis, with research programmes and three-day conventions in good hotels where they could read papers with titles like ‘Whither Geomancy?’ and The role of Seven-League Boots in a caring society.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon, for example, hardly ever did any magic these days but ran the Order with hourglass efficiency and wrote lots of memos and had a big chart on his office wall, covered with coloured blobs and flags and lines that no-one else really understood but which looked very impressive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other type of wizard thought all this was so much marsh gas and wouldn’t have anything to do with an image unless it was made of wax and had pins stuck in it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The heads of the eight orders were all of this persuasion, traditionalists to a mage, and the utensils that were heaped around the octogram had a definite, no-nonsense occult look about them. Rams horns, skulls, baroque metalwork and heavy candles were much in evidence, despite the discovery by younger wizards that the Rite of AshkEnte could perfectly well be performed with three small bits of wood and 4 cc of mouse blood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The preparations normally took several hours, but the combined powers of the senior wizards shortened it considerably and, after a mere forty minutes, Galder chanted the final words of the spell. They hung in front of him for a moment before dissolving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The air in the centre of the octogram shimmered and thickened, and suddenly contained a tall, dark figure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Most of it was hidden by a black robe and hood and this was probably just as well. It held a long scythe in one hand and one couldn’t help noticing that what should have been fingers were simply white bone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other skeletal hand held small cubes of cheese and pineapple on a stick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">WELL? said Death, in a voice with all the warmth and colour of an iceberg. He caught the wizards’ gaze, and glanced down at the stick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I WAS AT A PARTY, he added, a shade reproachfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘O Creature of Earth and Darkness, we do charge thee to abjure from—’ began Galder in a firm, commanding voice. Death nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">YES, YES, I KNOW ALL THAT, he said. WHY HAVE YOU SUMMONED ME?</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It is said that you can see both the past and future,’ said Galder a little sulkily, because the big speech of binding and conjuration was one he rather liked and people had said he was very good at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">THAT IS ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then perhaps you can tell us what exactly it was that happened this morning?’ said Galder. He pulled himself together, and added loudly, ‘I command this by Azimrothe, by T’chikel, by—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">ALL RIGHT, YOU’VE MADE YOUR POINT, said Death. WHAT PRECISELY WAS IT YOU WISHED TO KNOW? QUITE A LOT OF THINGS HAPPENED THIS MORNING, PEOPLE WERE BORN, PEOPLE DIED, ALL THE TREES GREW A BIT TALLER, RIPPLES MADE INTERESTING PATTERNS ON THE SEA—</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean about the Octavo,’ said Galder coldly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">THAT? OH, THAT WAS JUST A READJUSTMENT OF REALITY. I UNDERSTAND THE OCTAVO WAS ANXIOUS NOT TO LOSE THE EIGHTH SPELL. IT WAS DROPPING OFF THE DISC, APPARENTLY.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hold on, hold on,’ said Galder. He scratched his chin. ‘Are we talking about the one inside the head of Rincewind? Tall thin man, bit scraggy? The one—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">–THAT HE HAS BEEN CARRYING AROUND ALL THESE YEARS, YES.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder frowned. It seemed a lot of trouble to go to. Everyone knew that when a wizard died all the spells in h:s head would go free, so why bother to save Rincewind? The spell would just float back eventually.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Any idea why?’ he said without thinking and then, remembering himself in time, added hastily, ‘By Yrriph and Kcharla I do abjure thee and—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">I WISH YOU WOULDN’T KEEP DOING THAT, said Death, ALL THAT I KNOW IS THAT ALL THE SPELLS HAVE TO BE SAID TOGETHER NEXT HOGS-WATCHNIGHT OR THE DISC WILL BE DESTROYED.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Speak up there!’ demanded Greyhald Spold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shut up!’ said Galder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">ME?</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No<em class="calibre3">,</em> him. Daft old—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I heard that!’ snapped Spold, ‘You young people—’ He stopped. Death was looking at him thoughtfully, as if he was trying to remember his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ said Galder, ‘just repeat that bit again, will you? The Disc will be what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">DESTROYED, said Death. CAN I GO NOW? I LEFT MY DRINK.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hang on,’ said Galder hurriedly. ‘By Cheliliki and Orizone and so forth, what do you mean, destroyed?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">IT’S AN ANCIENT PROPHECY WRITTEN ON THE INNER WALLS OF THE GREAT PYRAMID OF TSORT. THE WORD DESTROYED SEEMS QUITE SELF-EXPLANATORY TO ME.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s all you can tell us?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But Hogswatchnight is only two months away!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘At least you can tell us where Rincewind is now!’ Death shrugged. It was a gesture he was particularly well built for.</div>
<div class="paragraph">THE FOREST OF SKUND, RIMWARDS OF THE RAMTOP MOUNTAINS.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What is he doing there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">FEELING VERY SORRY FOR HIMSELF.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">NOW MAY I GO?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder nodded distractedly. He had been thinking wistfully of the banishment ritual, which started ‘Begone, foul shade’ and had some rather impressive passages which he had been practising, but somehow he couldn’t work up any enthusiasm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes,’ he said. Thank you, yes.’ And then, because it’s as well not to make enemies even among the creatures of night, he added politely, ‘I hope it is a good party.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Death didn’t answer. He was looking at Spold in the same way that a dog looks at a bone, only in this case things were more or less the other way around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said I hope it is a good party,’ said Galder, loudly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">AT THE MOMENT IT IS, said Death levelly. I THINK IT MIGHT GO DOWNHILL VERY QUICKLY AT MIDNIGHT.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">THAT’S WHEN THEY THINK I’LL BE TAKING MY MASK OFF.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He vanished, leaving only a cocktail stick and a short paper streamer behind.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">There had been an unseen observer of all this. It was of course entirely against the rules, but Trymon knew all about rules and had always considered they were for making, not obeying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Long before the eight mages had got down to some serious arguing about what the apparition had meant he was down in the main levels of the University library.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was an awe-inspiring place. Many of the books were magical, and the important thing to remember about grimoires is that they are deadly in the hands of any ibrarian who cares about order, because he’s bound to stick them all on the same shelf. This is not a good idea with books that tend to leak magic, because more than one or two of them together form a critical Black Mass. On top of that, many of the lesser spells are quite particular about the company they keep, and tend to express any objections by hurling their books viciously across the room. And, of course, there is always the half-felt presence of the Things from the Dungeon Dimensions, clustering around the magical leakage and constantly probing the walls of reality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The job of magical librarian, who has to spend his working days in this sort of highly charged atmosphere, is a high-risk occupation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Head Librarian was sitting on top of his desk, quietly peeling a orange, and was well aware of that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced up when Trymon entered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m looking for anything we’ve got on the Pyramid of Tshut,’ said Trymon. He had come prepared: he took a banana out of his pocket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The librarian looked at it mournfully, and then flopped down heavily on the floor. Trymon found a soft hand poked gently into his and the librarian led the way, waddling sadly between the bookshelves. It was like holding a little leather glove.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Around them the books sizzled and sparked, with the occasional discharge of undirected magic flashing over to the carefully-placed earthing rods nailed to the shelves. There was a tinny, blue smell and, just at the very limit of hearing, the horrible chittering of the dungeon creatures.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Like many other parts of Unseen University the library occupied rather more space than its outside dimensions would suggest, because magic distorts space in strange ways, and it was probably the only library in the universe with Mobius shelves. But the librarian’s mental catalogue was ticking over perfectly. He stopped by a soaring stack of musty books and swung himself up into the darkness. There was the sound of rustling paper, and a cloud of dust oated down to Trymon. Then the librarian was back, a slim volume in his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon took it gingerly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The cover was scratched and very dog-eared, the gold of its lettering had long ago curled off, but he could just make out, in the old magic tongue of the Tsort Valley, the words: I<em class="calibre3">yt Gryet Teymple hyte Tsort,</em> Y <em class="calibre3">Hiystory Myistical.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook?’ said the librarian, anxiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon turned the pages cautiously. He wasn’t very good at languages, he’d always found them highly inefficient things which by rights ought to be replaced by some sort of easily understood numerical system, but this seemed exactly what he was looking for. There were whole pages covered with meaningful hieroglyphs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is this the only book you’ve got about the pyramid of Tsort?’ he said slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re quite sure?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon listened. He could hear, a long way off, the sound of approaching feet and arguing voices. But he had been prepared for that, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reached into a pocket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would you like another banana?’ he said.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The forest of Skund was indeed enchanted, which was nothing unusual on the Disc, and was also the only forest in the whole universe to be called—in the local language—Your Finger You Fool, which was the literal meaning of the word Skund.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The reason for this is regrettably all too common. When the first explorers from the warm lands around the Circle Sea travelled into the chilly hinterland they filled in the blank spaces on their maps by grabbing the nearest native, pointing at some distant landmark, speaking very clearly n a loud voice, and writing down whatever the bemused man told them. Thus were immortalised in generations of atlases such geographical oddities as Just A Mountain, I Don’t Know, What? and, of course, Your Finger You Fool.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rainclouds clustered around the bald heights of Mt. Oolskunrahod (‘Who is this Fool who does Not Know what a Mountain Is’) and the Luggage settled itself more comfortably under a dripping tree, which tried unsuccessfully to strike up a conversation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower and Rincewind were arguing. The person they were arguing about sat on his mushroom and watched them with interest. He looked like someone who smelled like someone who lived in a mushroom, and that bothered Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, why hasn’t he got a red hat?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated, desperately trying to imagine what Twoflower was getting at.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ he said, giving in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He should have a red hat,’ said Twoflower. ‘And he certainly ought to be cleaner and more, more sort of jolly. He doesn’t look like any sort of gnome to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What are you going on about?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look at that beard,’ said Twoflower sternly. ‘I’ve seen better beards on a piece of cheese.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, he’s six inches high and lives in a mushroom,’ snarled Rincewind. ‘Of course he’s a bloody gnome.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ve only got his word for it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down at the gnome.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Excuse me,’ he said. He took Twoflower to the other side of the clearing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Listen,’ he said between his teeth. ‘If he was fifteen feet tall and said he was a giant we’d only have his word for that too, wouldn’t we?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He could be a goblin,’ said Twoflower defiantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked back at the tiny figure, which was industriously picking its nose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’ he said. ‘So what? Gnome, goblin, pixie—so what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not a pixie,’ said Twoflower firmly. ‘Pixies, they wear these sort of green combinations and they have pointy caps and little knobbly antenna thingies sticking out of their heads. I’ve seen pictures.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower hesitated, and looked at his feet. ‘I think it was called the "mutter, mutter, mutter." ‘</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The what? Called the what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little man took a sudden interest in the backs of his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Little Folks’ Book of Flower Fairies,’ he muttered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked blank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a book on how to avoid them?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh no,’ said Twoflower hurriedly. It tells you where to look for them. I can remember the pictures now.’ A dreamy look came over his face, and Rincewind groaned inwardly. There was even a special fairy that came and took your teeth away.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, came and pulled out your actual teeth—?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, no, you’re wrong, I mean after they’d fallen out, what you did was, you put the tooth under your pillow and the fairy came and took it away and left a <em class="calibre3">rhinu</em> piece.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why did it collect teeth?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It just did.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind formed a mental picture of some strange entity living in a castle made of teeth. It was the kind of mental picture you tried to forget. Unsuccessfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urgh,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Red hats! He wondered whether to enlighten the tourist about what life was really like when a frog was a good meal, a rabbit hole a useful place to shelter out of the rain, and an owl a drifting, silent terror in the night. Moleskin trousers sounded quaint unless you personally had to remove them from their original owner when the vicious little sod was cornered in his burrow. As for red hats, anyone who went around a forest looking bright nd conspicuous would only do so very, very briefly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wanted to say: look, the life of gnomes and goblins is nasty, brutish and short. So are they.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wanted to say all this, and couldn’t. For a man with an itch to see the whole of infinity, Twoflower never actually moved outside his own head. Telling him the truth would be like kicking a spaniel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Swee whee weedle wheet,’ said a voice by his foot. He looked down. The gnome, who had introduced himself as Swires, looked up. Rincewind had a very good ear for languages. The gnome had just said, ‘I’ve got some newt sorbet left over from yesterday.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sounds wonderful,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Swires gave him another prod in the ankle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The other bigger, is he all right?’ he said solicitously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s just suffering from reality shock,’ said Rincewind. You haven’t got a red hat, by any chance?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wheet?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just a thought.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know where there’s some food for biggers,’ said the gnome, ‘and shelter, too. It’s not far.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at the lowering sky. The daylight was draining out of the landscape and the clouds looked as if they had heard about snow and were considering the idea. Of course, people who lived in mushrooms couldn’t necessarily be trusted, but right now a trap baited with a hot meal and clean sheets would have had the wizard hammering to get in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They set off. After a few seconds the Luggage got carefully to its feet and started to follow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Psst!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It turned carefully, little legs moving in a complicated pattern, and appeared to look up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is it good, being joinery?’ said the tree, anxiously. ‘Did it hurt?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage seemed to think about this. Every brass handle, every knothole, radiated extreme concentration.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then it shrugged its lid and waddled away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tree sighed, and shook a few dead leaves out of its twigs.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The cottage was small, tumbledown and as ornate as a doily. Some mad whittler had got to work on it, Rincewind decided, and had created terrible havoc before he could be dragged away. Every door, every shutter had its clusters of wooden grapes and half-moon cutouts, and there were massed outbreaks of fretwork pinecones all over the walls. He half expected a giant cuckoo to come hurtling out of an upper window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What he also noticed was the characteristic greasy feel in the air. Tiny green and purple sparks flashed from his fingernails.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Strong magical field,’ he muttered. ‘A hundred milli-thaums [<a href="#FbAutId_2" title="A Thaum is the basic unit of magical strength. It has been universally established as the amount of magic needed to create one small white pigeon or three normal sized billiard balls."><sup class="calibre11">2</sup></a>] at least.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s magic all over the place,’ said Swires. ‘An old witch used to live around here. She went a long time ago but the magic still keeps the house going.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Here, there’s something odd about that door,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Why should a house need magic to keep it going?’ said Rincewind. Twoflower touched a wall gingerly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s all sticky!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nougat,’ said Swires.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good grief! A real gingerbread cottage! Rincewind, a real—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded glumly. Yeah, the Confectionary School of Architecture,’ he said. ‘It never caught on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked suspiciously at the liquorice doorknocker.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It sort of regenerates,’ said Swires. ‘Marvellous, really. You just don’t get this sort of place nowadays, you just an’t get the gingerbread.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Really?’ said Rincewind, gloomily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Come on in,’ said the gnome, ‘<em class="calibre3">but</em> mind the doormat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Candyfloss.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The great Disc spun slowly under its toiling sun, and daylight pooled in hollows and finally drained away as night fell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In his chilly room in Unseen University Trymon pored over the book, his lips moving as his finger traced the unfamiliar, ancient script. He read that the Great Pyramid of Tsort, now long vanished, was made of one million, three thousand and ten limestone blocks. He read that ten thousand slaves had been worked to death in its building. He learned that it was a maze of secret passages, their walls reputedly decorated with the distilled wisdom of ancient Tsort. He read that its height plus its length divided by half its width equalled exactly 1.67563, or precisely 1,237.98712567 times the difference between the distance to the sun and the weight of a small orange. He learned that sixty years had been devoted entirely to its construction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It all seemed, he thought, to be rather a lot of trouble to go to just to sharpen a razor blade.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And in the Forest of Skund Twoflower and Rincewind settled down to a meal of gingerbread mantlepiece and thought longingly of pickled onions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And far away, but set as it were on a collision course, the greatest hero the Disc ever produced rolled himself a cigarette, entirely unaware of the role that lay in store for him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was quite an interesting tailormade that he twirled expertly between his fingers because, like many of the wandering wizards from whom he had picked up the art, he was in the habit of saving dogends in a leather bag and rolling them into fresh smokes. The implacable law of verages therefore dictated that some of that tobacco had been smoked almost continuously for many years now. The thing he was trying unsuccessfully to light was, well, you could have coated roads with it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So great was the reputation of this person that a group of nomadic barbarian horsemen had respectfully invited him to join them as they sat around a horseturd fire. The nomads of the Hub regions usually migrated Rimwards for the winter, and these were part of a tribe who had pitched their felt tents in the sweltering heatwave of a mere –3 degrees and were going around with peeling noses and complaining about heatstroke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The barbarian chieftain said: What then are the greatest things that a man may find in life?’ This is the sort of thing you’re supposed to say to maintain steppe-cred in barbarian circles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man on his right thoughtfully drank his cocktail of mare’s milk and snowcat blood, and spoke thus: The crisp horizon of the steppe, the wind in your hair, a fresh horse under you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man on his left said: The cry of the white eagle in the heights, the fall of snow in the forest, a true arrow in your bow.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The chieftain nodded, and said: ‘Surely it is the sight of your enemy slain, the humiliation of his tribe and the lamentation of his women.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a general murmur of whiskery approval at this outrageous display.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the chieftain turned respectfully to his guest, a small figure carefully warming his chilblains by the fire, and said: ‘But our guest, whose name is legend, must tell us truly: what is it that a man may call the greatest things in life?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guest paused in the middle of another unsuccessful attempt to light up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What shay?’ he said, toothlessly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said: what is it that a man may call the greatest things in life?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The warriors leaned closer. This should be worth hearing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guest thought long and hard and then said, with deliberation: ‘Hot water, good dentishtry and shoft lavatory paper.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Brilliant octarine light flared in the forge. Galder Weatherwax, stripped to the waist, his face hidden by a mask of smoked glass, squinted into the glow and brought a hammer down with surgical precision. The magic squealed and writhed in the tongs but still he worked it, drawing it into a line of agonised fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A floorboard creaked. Galder had spent many hours tuning them, always a wise precaution with an ambitious assistant who walked like a cat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">D flat. That meant he was just to the right of the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, Trymon,’ he said, without turning, and noted with some satisfaction the faint indrawing of breath behind him. ‘Good of you to come. Shut the door, will you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon pushed the heavy door, his face expressionless. On the high shelf above him various bottled impossibilities wallowed in their pickle jars and watched him with interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Like all wizards’ workshops, the place looked as though a taxidermist had dropped his stock in a foundry and then had a fight with a maddened glassblower, braining a passing crocodile in the process (it hung from the ceiling and smelt strongly of camphor). There were lamps and rings that Trymon itched to rub, and mirrors that looked as though they could repay a second glance. A pair of seven-league boots stirred restlessly in a cage. A whole library of grimoires, not of course as powerful as the Octavo but still heavy with spells, creaked and rattled their chains as they sensed the wizard’s covetous glance on them. The naked power of it all stirred him as nothing else could, but he deplored the scruffiness and Galder’s sense of theatre.</div>
<div class="paragraph">For example, he happened to know that the green liquid bubbling mysteriously through a maze of contorted pipework on one of the benches was just green dye with soap in it, because he’d bribed one of the servants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One day, he thought, it’s all going to go. Starting with that bloody alligator. His knuckles whitened...</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well now,’ said Galder cheerfully, hanging up his apron and sitting back in his chair with the lion paw arms and duck legs, ‘You sent me this memmy-thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon shrugged. ‘Memo. I merely pointed out, lord, that the other Orders have all sent agents to Skund Forest to recapture the spell, while you do nothing,’ he said. ‘No doubt you will reveal your reasons in good time.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Your faith shames me,’ said Galder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizard who captures the spell will bring great honour on himself and his order,’ said Trymon. The others have used boots and all manner of elsewhere spells. What do you propose using, master?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Did I detect a hint of sarcasm there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Absolutely not, master.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not even a smidgeon?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not even the merest smidgeon, master.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good. Because I don’t propose to go.’ Galder reached down and picked up an ancient book. He mumbled a command and it creaked open; a bookmark suspiciously like a tongue flicked back into the binding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He fumbled down beside his cushion and produced a little leather bag of tobacco and a pipe the size of an incinerator. With all the skill of a terminal nicotine addict he rubbed a nut of tobacco between his hands and tamped it into the bowl. He snapped his fingers and fire flared. He sucked deep, sighed with satisfaction...</div>
<div class="paragraph">... looked up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Still here, Tryrnon?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You summoned me, master,’ said Trymon levelly. At least, that’s what his voice said. Deep in his grey eyes was the faintest glitter that said he had a list of every slight, every patronising twinkle, every gentle reproof, every knowing glance, and for every single one Galder’s living brain was going to spend a year in acid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes, so I did. Humour the deficiencies of an old man,’ said Galder pleasantly. He held up the book he had been reading.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t hold with all this running about,’ he said. ‘It’s all very dramatic, mucking about with magic carpets and the like, but it isn’t true magic to my mind. Take seven league boots, now. If men were meant to walk twenty-one miles at a step I am sure God would have given us longer legs... Where was I?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I am not sure,’ said Trymon coldly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, yes. Strange that we could find nothing about the Pyramid of Tsort in the Library, you would have thought there’d be something, wouldn’t you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The librarian will be disciplined, of course.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder looked sideways at him. ‘Nothing drastic,’ he said. ‘Withold his bananas, perhaps.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at each other for a moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder broke off first—looking hard at Trymon always bothered him. It had the same disconcerting effect as gazing into a mirror and seeing no-one there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyway,’ he said, ‘strangely enough, I found assistance elsewhere. In my own modest bookshelves, in fact. The journal of Skrelt Changebasket, the founder of our order. You, my keen young man who would rush off so soon, do you know what happens when a wizard dies?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Any spells he has memorised say themselves,’ said Trymon. ‘It is one of the first things we learn.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘In fact it is not true of the original Eight Great Spells. By dint of close study Skrelt learned that a Great Spell will simply take refuge in the nearest mind open and ready to receive it. Just push the big mirror over here, will you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder got to his feet and shuffled across to the forge, which was now cold. The strand of magic still writhed, though, at once present and not present, like a slit cut into another universe full of hot blue light. He picked it p easily, took a longbow from a rack, said a word of power, and watched with satisfaction as the magic grasped the ends of the bow and then tightened until the wood creaked. Then lie selected an arrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon had tugged a heavy, full-length mirror into the middle of the floor. When I am head of the Order, he told himself, I certainly won’t shuffle around in carpet slippers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon, as mentioned earlier, felt that a lot could be done by fresh blood if only the dead wood could be removed—but, just for the moment, he was genuinely interested in seeing what the old fool would do next.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He may have derived some satisfaction if he had known that Galder and Skrelt Changebasket were both absolutely wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder made a few passes in front of the glass, which clouded over and then cleared to show an aerial view of the Forest of Skund. He looked at it intently while holding the bow with the arrow pointing vaguely at the ceiling. He muttered a few words like ‘allow for wind speed of, say, three knots’ and ‘adjust for temperature’ and then, with a rather disappointing movement, released the arrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">If the laws of action and reaction had anything to do with it, it should have flopped to the ground a few feet away. But no-one was listening to them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a sound that defies description, but which for the sake of completeness can be thought of basically as ‘spang!’ plus three days hard work in any decently equipped radiophonic workshop, the arrow vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder threw the bow aside and grinned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Of course, it’ll take about an hour to get there,’ he said. Then the spell will simply follow the ionised path back here. To me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Remarkable,’ said Trymon, but any passing telepath would have read in letters ten yards high: if you, then why not me? He looked down at the cluttered workbench, when a long and very sharp knife looked tailormade for what he suddenly had in mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Violence was not something he liked to be involved in except at one remove. But the Pyramid of Tsort had been quite clear about the rewards for whoever brought all right spells together at the right time, and Trymon was not about to let years of painstaking work go for nothing because some old fool had a bright idea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would you like some cocoa while we’re waiting?’ said Galder, hobbling across the room to the servants’ bell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Certainly,’ said Trymon. He picked up the knife, weighing it for balance and accuracy. ‘I must congratulate you, master. I can see that we must all get up very early in the morning to get the better of you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder laughed. And the knife left Trymon’s hand at such speed that (because of the somewhat sluggish nature of Disc light) it actually grew a bit shorter and a little more massive as it plunged, with unerring aim, towards Galder’s neck.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It didn’t reach it. Instead, it swerved to one side and began a fast orbit—so fast that Galder appeared suddenly to be wearing a metal collar. He turned around, and to Trymon it seemed that he had suddenly grown several feet taller and much more powerful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The knife broke away and shuddered into the door a mere shadow’s depth from Trymon’s ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Early in the morning?’ said Galder pleasantly. ‘My dear lad, you will need to stay up all night.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Have a bit more table,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No thanks, I don’t like marzipan,’ said Twoflower. ‘Anyway, I’m sure it’s not right to eat other people’s furniture.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t worry,’ said Swires. The old witch hasn’t been seen for years. They say she was done up good and proper by a couple of young tearaways.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Kids of today,’ commented Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I blame the parents,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Once you had made the necessary mental adjustments, the gingerbread cottage was quite a pleasant place. Residual magic kept it standing and it was shunned by such local wild animals who hadn’t already died of terminal tooth decay. A bright fire of liquorice logs burned rather messily in the fireplace; Rincewind had tried gathering wood outside, but had given up. It’s hard to burn wood that talks to you.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He belched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This isn’t very healthy,’ he said. ‘I mean, why sweets? Why not crispbread and cheese? Or salami, now—I could just do with a nice salami sofa.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Search me,’ said Swires. ‘Old Granny Whitlow just did sweets. You should have seen her meringues —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I have,’ said Rincewind, ‘I looked at the mattresses...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gingerbread is more traditional,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, for mattresses?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t be silly,’ said Twoflower reasonably. Whoever heard of a gingerbread mattress?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind grunted. He was thinking of food—more accurately, of food in Ankh-Morpork. Funny how the old place seemed more attractive the further he got from it. He only had to close his eyes to picture, in dribbling detail, the food stalls of a hundred different cultures in the market places. You could eat <em class="calibre3">squishi</em> or shark’s fin soup so fresh that swimmers wouldn’t go near it, and —</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you think I could buy this place?’ said Twoflower. Rincewind hesitated. He’d found it always paid to think very carefully before answering Twoflower’s more surprising questions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What for?’ he said, cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, it just reeks of ambience.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s ambience?’ said Swires, sniffing cautiously and wearing the kind of expression that said that he hadn’t done it, whatever it was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s a kind of frog,’ said Rincewind. ‘Anyway, you can’t buy this place because there isn’t anyone to buy t <em class="calibre3">from—’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think I could probably arrange that, on behalf of the forest council of course,’ interrupted Swires, trying to avoid Rincewind’s glare.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘– and anyway you couldn’t take it with you, I mean, you could hardly pack it in the Luggage, could you?’ Rincewind indicated the Luggage, which was lying by the fire and managing in some quite impossible way to look like a contented but alert tiger, and then looked back at Twoflower. His face fell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Could you?’ he repeated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had never quite come to terms with the fact that the inside of the Luggage didn’t seem to inhabit quite the same world as the outside. Of course, this was simply a byproduct of its essential weirdness, but it was disconcerting to see Twoflower fill it full of dirty shirts and old socks and then open the lid again on a pile of nice crisp laundry, smelling faintly of lavender. Twoflower also bought a lot of quaint native artifacts or, as Rincewind would put it, junk, and even a seven-foot ceremonial pig tickling pole seemed to fit inside quite easily without sticking out <em class="calibre3">anywhere.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know,’ said Twoflower. ‘You’re a wizard, you know about these things.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, well, of course, but baggage magic is a highly specialised art,’ said Rincewind. ‘Anyway, I’m sure the gnomes wouldn’t really want to sell it, it’s, it’s—,’ he groped through what he knew of Twoflower’s mad vocabulary—‘it’s a tourist attraction.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s that?’ said Swires, interestedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It means that lots of people like him will come and look at it,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Because—’ Rincewind groped for words—‘it’s quaint. Urn, oldey worldey. Folkloresque. Er, a delightful example of a vanished folk art, steeped in the traditions of an age long gone.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It is?’ said Swires, looking at the cottage in bewilderment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Fraid so.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll help you pack.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">And the night wears on, under a blanket of lowering clouds which covers most of the Disc—which is fortuitous, because when it clears and the astrologers get a good view of the sky they are going to get angry and upset.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And in various parts of the forest parties of wizards are getting lost, and going around in circles, and hiding from each other, and getting upset because whenever they bump into a tree it apologises to them. But, unsteadily though it may be, many of them are getting quite close to the cottage...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which is a good time to get back to the rambling buildings of Unseen University and in particular the apartments of Greyhald Spold, currently the oldest wizard on the Disc and determined to keep it that way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He has just been extremely surprised and upset.</div>
<div class="paragraph">For the last few hours he has been very busy. He may be deaf and a little hard of thinking, but elderly wizards have very well-trained survival instincts, and they know that when a tall figure in a black robe and the latest in agricultural handtools starts looking thoughtfully at you it is time to act fast. The servants have been dismissed. The doorways have been sealed with a paste made from powdered mayflies, and protective octograms have been drawn on the windows. Rare and rather smelly oils have been poured in complex patterns on the floor, in designs which hurt the eyes and suggest the designer was drunk or from some other dimension or, possibly, both; in the very centre of the room is the eightfold octogram of Witholding, surrounded by red and green candles. And in the centre of that is a box made from wood of the curly-fern pine, which grows to a great age, and it is lined with red silk and yet more protective amulets. Because Greyhald Spold knows that Death is looking for him, and has spent many years designing an impregnable hiding place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He has just set the complicated clockwork of the lock and shut the lid, lying back in the knowledge that here at last is the perfect defence against the most ultimate of all his enemies, although as yet he has not considered the important part that airholes must play in an enterprise of this kind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And right beside him, very close to his ear, a voice has just said: DARK IN HERE, ISN’T IT?</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It began to snow. The barleysugar windows of the cottage showed bright and cheerful against the blackness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At one side of the clearing three tiny red points of light-glowed momentarily and there was the sound of a chesty cough, abruptly silenced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shut up!’ hissed a third rank wizard. They’ll hear us!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who will? We gave the lads from the Brotherhood of the Hoodwink the slip in the swamp, and those idiots from the Venerable Council of Seers went off the wrong way anyway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah,’ said the most junior wizard, ‘but who keeps talking to us? They say this is a magic wood, it’s full of goblins and wolves and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Trees,’ said a voice out of the darkness, high above. It possessed what can only be described as timbre.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah,’ said the youngest wizard. He sucked on his dogend, and shivered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The leader of the party peered over the rock and watched the cottage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right then,’ he said, knocking out his pipe on the heel of his seven league boot, who squeaked in protest. ‘We rush in, we grab them, we’re away. Okay?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You sure it’s just people?’ said the youngest wizard, nervously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Of course I’m sure,’ snarled the leader. ‘What do you expect, three bears?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There could be monsters. This is the sort of wood that 45 has monsters.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And trees,’ said a friendly voice from the branches. ‘Yeah,’ said the leader, cautiously.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked carefully at the bed. It was quite a nice little bed, in a sort of hard toffee inlaid with caramel, but he’d rather eat it than sleep in it and it looked as though someone already had.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Someone’s been eating my bed,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I like toffee,’ said Twoflower defensively.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If you don’t watch out the fairy will come and take all your teeth away,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, that’s elves,’ said Swires from the dressing table. ‘Elves do that. Toenails, too. Very touchy at times, elves can be.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower sat down heavily on his bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve got it wrong,’ he said. ‘Elves are noble and beautiful and wise and fair; I’m sure I read that somewhere.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Swires and Rincewind’s kneecap exchanged glances.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think you must be thinking about different elves,’ the gnome said slowly. ‘We’ve just got the other sort around here. Not that you could call them quick-tempered,’ he added hastily. ‘Not if you didn’t want to take your teeth home in your hat, anyway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the tiny, distinctive sound of a nougat door opening. At the same time, from the other side of the cottage, came the faintest of tinkles, like a rock smashing a barley sugar window as delicately as possible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What was that?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Which one?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the clonk of a heavy branch banging against the window sill. With a cry of ‘Elves!’ Swires scuttled across the floor to a mousehole and vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What shall we do?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Panic?’ said Rincewind hopefully. He always held that panic was the best means of survival; back in the olden days, his theory went, people faced with hungry sabre-toothed tigers could be divided very simply into those who panicked and those who stood there saying ‘What a magnificent brute!’ and ‘Here, pussy.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s a cupboard,’ said Twoflower, pointing to a narrow door that was squeezed between the wall and the chimneybreast. They scrambled into sweet, musty darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the creak of a chocolate floorboard outside. Someone said ‘I heard voices.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone else said, ‘Yeah, downstairs. I think it’s the Hood winkers.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I thought you said we’d given them the slip!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey, you two, you can eat this place! Here, look you can —’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Shut up!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a lot more creaking, and a muffled scream from downstairs where a Venerable Seer, creeping carefully through the darkness from the broken window, had trodden on the fingers of a Hoodwinker who was hiding under the table. There was the sudden zip and zing of magic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bugger!’said a voice outside. They’ve got him! Let’s go!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was more creaking, and then silence. After a while Twoflower said, ‘Rincewind, I think there’s a broomstick in this cupboard.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, what’s so unusual about that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">This one’s got handlebars.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a piercing shriek from below. In the darkness a wizard had tried to open the Luggage’s lid. A crash from the scullery indicated the sudden arrival of a party of Illuminated Mages of the Unbroken Circle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What do you think they’re after?’ whispered Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know, but I think it might be a good idea not to find out,’ said Rincewind thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You could be right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind pushed open the door gingerly. The room was empty. He tiptoed across to the window, and looked own into the upturned faces of three Brothers of the Order of Midnight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s him!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He drew back hurriedly and rushed for the stairs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The scene below was indescribable but since that statement would earn the death penalty in the reign of Olaf Quimby II the attempt better be made. Firstly, most of the struggling wizards were trying to illuminate the scene by various flames, fireballs and magical glows, so the overall lighting gave the impression of a disco in a strobelight factory; each man was trying to find a position from which he could see the rest of the room without being attacked himself, and absolutely everyone was trying to keep out of the way of the Luggage, which had two Venerable Seers pinned in a corner and was snapping its lid at anyone who approached. But one wizard did happen to look up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s him!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind jerked back, and something bumped into him. He looked around hurriedly, and stared when he saw Twoflower sitting on the broomstick—which was floating in mid-air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The witch must have left it behind!’ said Twoflower. ‘A genuine magic broomstick!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated. Octarine sparks were spitting off the broomstick’s bristles and he hated heights almost more than anything else, but what he really hated more than anything at all was a dozen very angry and bad-tempered wizards rushing up the stairs towards him, and this was happening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ he said, <em class="calibre3">‘but</em> I’ll drive.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He lashed out with a boot at a wizard who was halfway through a Spell of Binding and jumped onto the broomstick, which bobbed down the stairwell and then turned upside down so that Rincewind was horribly eye to eye with a Brother of Midnight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He yelped and gave the handlebars a convulsive twist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Several things happened at once. The broomstick shot orward and broke through the wall in a shower of crumbs: the Luggage surged forward and bit the Brother in the leg: and with a strange whistling sound an arrow appeared from nowhere, missed Rincewind by inches, and struck the Luggage’s lid with a very solid thud. The Luggage vanished.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">In a little village deep in the forest an ancient shaman threw a few more twigs on his fire and stared through the smoke at his shamefaced apprentice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A box with legs on?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, master. It just appeared out of the sky and looked at me,’ said the apprentice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It had eyes then, this box?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘N—,’ began the apprentice and stopped, puzzled. The old man frowned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Many have seen Topaxci, God of the Red Mushroom, and they earn the name of shaman,’ he said. ‘Some have seen Skelde, spirit of the smoke, and they are called sorcerers. A few have been privileged to see Umcherrel, the soul of the forest, and they are known as spirit masters. But none have seen a box with hundreds of legs that looked at them without eyes, and they are known as idio—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The interruption was caused by a sudden screaming noise and a flurry of snow and sparks that blew the fire across the dark hut; there was a brief blurred vision and then the opposite wall was blasted aside and the apparition vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a long silence. Then a slightly shorter silence. Then the old shaman said carefully, ‘You didn’t just see two men go through upside down on a broomstick, shouting and screaming at each other, did you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy looked at him levelly. ‘Certainly not,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The old man heaved a sigh of relief. Thank goodness for that,’ he said. ‘Neither did I.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The cottage was in turmoil, because not only did the wizards want to follow the broomstick, they also wanted to prevent each other from doing so, and this led to several regrettable incidents.The most spectacular, and certainly the most tragic, happened when one Seer attempted to use his seven league boots without the proper sequence of spells and preparations. Seven league boots, as has already been intimated, are a tricksy form of magic at best, and he remembered too late that the utmost caution must be taken in using a means of transport which, when all is said and done, relies for its effectiveness on trying to put one foot twenty-one miles in front of the other.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The first snowstorms of winter were raging, and in fact there was a suspiciously heavy covering of cloud over most of the Disc. And yet, from far above and by the silver light of the discworld’s tiny moon, it presented one of the most beautiful sights in the multiverse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great streamers of cloud, hundreds of miles along, swirled from the waterfall at the Rim to the mountains of the Hub. In the cold crystal silence the huge white spiral glittered frostily under the stars, imperceptibly turning, very much as though God had stirred His coffee and then poured the cream in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nothing disturbed the glowing scene, which —</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something small and distant broke through the cloud layer, trailing shreds of vapour. In the stratospheric calm the sounds of bickering came sharp and clear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You said you could fly one of these things!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No I didn’t; I just said <em class="calibre3">you</em> couldn’t!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I’ve never been on one before!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What a coincidence!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyway, you said– <em class="calibre3">look at the sky!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No I didn’t!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s happened to the stars?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">And so it was that Rincewind and Twoflower became the first two people on the Disc to see what the future held.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A thousand miles behind them the Hub mountain of Cori Celesti stabbed the sky and cast a knife-bright shadow across the broiling clouds, so that Gods ought to have noticed too—but the Gods don’t normally look at the sky and in any case were engaged in litigation with the Ice Giants, who had refused to turn their radio down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rimwards, in the direction of Great A’Tuin’s travel, the sky had been swept of stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In that circle of blackness there was just one star, a red and baleful star, a star like the glitter in the eyesocket of a rabid mink. It was small and horrible and uncompromising. And the Disc was being carried straight towards it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind knew precisely what to do in these circumstances. He screamed and pointed the broomstick straight down.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Galder Weatherwax stood in the centre of the octogram and raised his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urshalo, dileptor, c’hula, do my bidding!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A small mist formed over his head. He glanced sideways at Trymon, who was sulking at the edge of the magic circle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This next bit’s quite impressive,’ he said. ‘Watch. <em class="calibre3">Kot-b’hai! Kot-sham!</em> To me, o spirits of small isolated rocks and worried mice not less than three inches long!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That bit took quite a lot of research,’ agreed Galder, especially the mice. Anyway, where was I? Oh, yes...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He raised his arms again. Trymon watched him, and licked his lips distractedly. The old fool was really concentrating, bending his mind entirely to the Spell and hardly paying any attention to Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Words of power rolled around the room, bouncing off the walls and scuttling out of sight behind shelves and jars. Trymon hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder shut his eyes momentarily, his face a mask of ecstacy as he mouthed the final word.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon tensed, his fingers curling around the knife again. And Galder opened one eye, nodded at him and sent a sideways blast of power that picked the younger man up and sent him sprawling against the wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Galder winked at him and raised his arms again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘To me, o spirits of—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a thunderclap, an implosion of light and a moment of complete physical uncertainty during which even the walls seemed to turn in on themselves. Trymon heard a sharp intake of breath and then a dull, solid thump.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room was suddenly silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a few minutes Trymon crawled out from behind a chair and dusted himself off. He whistled a few bars of nothing much and turned towards the door with exaggerated care, looking at the ceiling as if he had never seen it before. He moved in a way that suggested he was attempting the world speed record for the nonchalant walk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage squatted in the centre of the circle and opened its lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon stopped. He turned very, very carefully, dreading what he might see.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage seemed to contain some clean laundry, smelling slightly of lavender. Somehow it was quite the most terrifying thing the wizard had ever seen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, er,’ he said. ‘You, um, wouldn’t have seen another wizard around here, by any chance?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage contrived to look more menacing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said Trymon. ‘Well, fine. It doesn’t matter.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pulled vaguely at the hem of his robe and took a brief interest in the detail of its stitching. When he looked up the horrible box was still there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Goodbye,’ he said, and ran. He managed to get through the door just in time.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened his eyes. Not that it helped much. It just meant that instead of seeing nothing but blackness he saw nothing but whiteness which, surprisingly, was worse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you all right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sat up. He appeared to be on a rock speckled with snow, but it didn’t seem to be everything a rock ought to be. For example, it shouldn’t be moving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Snow blew around him. Twoflower was a few feet away, a look of genuine concern on his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind groaned. His bones were very angry at the treatment they had recently received and were queuing up to complain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What now?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You know when we were flying and I was worried we might hit something in the storm and you said the only thing we could possibly hit at this height was a cloud stuffed with rocks?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How did you know?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around, but for all the variety and interest in the scene around him they might as well have been in the inside of a pingpong ball.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rock underneath was—well, rocking. He ran his hands over it, and felt the scoring of chisels. When he put an ear to the cold wet stone he fancied he could hear a dull, slow thumping, like a heartbeat. He crawled forward until he came to an edge, and peered very cautiously over it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At that moment the rock must have been passing over a break in the clouds, because he caught a dim but horribly distant view of jagged-edged mountain peaks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were a long way down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He gurgled incoherently and inched his way backwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is ridiculous,’ he told Twoflower. ‘Rocks don’t fly. They’re noted for not doing it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Maybe they would if they could,’ said Twoflower. ‘Perhaps this one just found out how.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let’s just hope it doesn’t forget again,’ said Rincewind. He huddled up in his soaking robe and looked glumly at the cloud around him. He supposed there were some people somewhere who had some control over their lives; they got up in the mornings, and went to bed at night in the reasonable certainty of not falling over the edge of the world or being attacked by lunatics or waking up on a rock with ideas above its station. He dimly remembered leading a life like that once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sniffed. This rock smelt of frying. The smell seemed to be coming from up ahead, and appealed straight to his stomach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can you smell anything?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s bacon,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I hope it’s bacon,’ said Rincewind, ‘because I’m going to eat it.’ He stood up on the trembling stone and tottered forward into the clouds, peering through the wet gloom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the front or leading edge of the rock a small druid was sitting crosslegged in front of a small fire. A square of oilskin was tied across his head and knotted under his chin. He was poking at a pan of bacon with an ornamental sickle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um,’ said Rincewind. The druid looked up, and dropped the pan into the fire. He leapt to his feet and gripped the sickle aggressively, or at least as aggressively as anyone can look in a long wet white nightshirt and a dripping headscarf.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I warn you, I shall deal harshly with hijackers,’ he said, and sneezed violently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ll help,’ said Rincewind, looking longingly at the burning bacon. This seemed to puzzle the druid who, to Rincewind’s mild surprise, was quite young; he supposed here had to be such things as young druids, theoretically, it was just that he had never imagined them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re not trying to steal the rock?’ said the druid, lowering the sickle a fraction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I didn’t even know you could steal rocks,’ said Rincewind wearily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Excuse me,’ said Twoflower politely, ‘I think your breakfast is on fire.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The druid glanced down and flailed ineffectually at the flames. Rincewind hurried forward to help, there was a fair amount of smoke, ash and confusion, and the shared triumph of actually rescuing a few pieces of rather charred bacon did more good than a whole book on diplomacy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How did you get here, actually?’ said the druid. ‘We’re five hundred feet up, unless I’ve got the runes wrong again.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried not to think about height. ‘We sort of dropped in as we were passing,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘On our way to the ground,’ Twoflower added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Only your rock broke our fall,’ said Rincewind. His back complained. Thanks,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I thought we’d run into some turbulence a while back,’ said the druid, whose name turned out to be Belafon. That must have been you.’ He shivered. ‘It must be morning by now,’ he said. ‘Sod the rules, I’m taking us up. Hang on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What to?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, just indicate a general unwillingness to fall off,’ said Belafon. He took a large iron pendulum out of his robe and swung it in a series of baffling sweeps over the fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Clouds whipped around them, there was a horrible feeling of heaviness, and suddenly the rock burst into sunlight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It levelled off a few feet above the clouds, in a cold but bright blue sky. The clouds that had seemed chillingly distant last night and horribly clammy this morning were now a fleecy white carpet, stretching away in all directions; a few mountain peaks stood out like islands. Behind the rock the wind of its passage sculpted the clouds into transient whirls. The rock—</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was about thirty feet long and ten feet wide, and blueish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What an amazing panorama,’ said Twoflower, his eyes shining.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, what’s keeping us up?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Persuasion,’ said Belafon, wringing out the hem of his robe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Rincewind sagely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Keeping them up is easy,’ said the druid, holding up a thumb and squinting down the length of his arm at a distant mountain, The hard part is landing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You wouldn’t think so, would you?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Persuasion is what keeps the whole universe together,’ said Belafon. ‘It’s no good saying it’s all done by magic.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind happened to glance down through the thinning cloud to a snowy landscape a considerable distance below. He knew he was in the presence of a madman, but he was used to that; if listening to this madman meant he stayed up here, he was all ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Belafon sat down with his feet dangling over the edge of the rock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, don’t worry,’ he said. ‘If you keep thinking the rock shouldn’t be flying it might hear you and become persuaded and you will turn out to be right, okay? It’s obvious you aren’t up to date with modern thinking.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So it would seem,’ said Rincewind weakly. He was trying not to think about rocks on the ground. He was trying to think about rocks swooping like swallows, bounding across landscapes in the sheer joy of levity, zooming skywards in a—</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was horribly aware he wasn’t very good at it.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The druids of the Disc prided themselves on their forward-looking approach to the discovery of the mysteries of the Universe. Of course, like druids everywhere they believed in the essential unity of all life, the healing ower of plants, the natural rhythm of the seasons and the burning alive of anyone who didn’t approach all this in the right frame of mind, but they had also thought long and hard about the very basis of creation and had formulated the following theory:</div>
<div class="paragraph">The universe, they said, depended for its operation on the balance of four forces which they identified as charm, persuasion, uncertainty and bloody-mindedness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thus it was that the sun and moon orbited the disc because they were persuaded not to fall down, but didn’t actually fly away because of uncertainty. Charm allowed trees to grow and bloody-mindedness kept them up, and so on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some druids suggested that there were certain flaws in this theory, but senior druids explained very pointedly that there was indeed room for informed argument, the cut and thrust of exciting scientific debate, and basically it lay on top of the next solstice bonfire.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Ah, so you’re an astronomer?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh no,’ said Belafon, as the rock drifted gently around the curve of a mountain, I’m a computer hardware consultant.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s a computer hardware?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, this is,’ said the druid, tapping the rock with a sandalled foot.’Part of one, anyway. It’s a replacement. I’m delivering it. They’re having trouble with the big circles up on the Vortex Plains. So they say, anyway; I wished I had a bronze tore for every user who didn’t read the manual.’ He shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What use is it, then, exactly?’ asked Rincewind. Anything to keep his mind off the drop below.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You can use it to—to tell you what time of year it is,’ said Belafon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah. You mean if it’s covered in snow then it must be winter?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. I mean no. I mean, supposing you wanted to know when a particular star is going to rise —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’ said Twoflower, radiating polite interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, maybe you want to know when to plant your crops,’ said Belafon, sweating a little, ‘or maybe—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll lend you my almanac, if you like,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Almanac?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a book that tells you what day it is,’ said Rincewind wearily. ‘It’d be right up your leyline.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Belafon stiffened. ‘Book?’ he said. ‘Like, with paper?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That doesn’t sound very reliable to <em class="calibre3">me,’</em> said the druid nastily. ‘How can a book know what day it is? Paper can’t count.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stamped off to the front of the rock, causing it to wallow alarmingly. Rincewind swallowed hard and beckoned Twoflower closer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you ever heard of culture shock?’ he hissed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s what happens when people spend five hundred years trying to get a stone circle to work properly and then someone comes up with a little book with a page for every day and little chatty bits saying things like "Now is a good time to plant broad beans" and "Early to rise, early to bed, makes a man healthy, wealthy and dead," and do you know what the most important thing to remember about culture shock.’ Rincewind paused for breath, and moved his lips silently trying to remember where the sentence had got to, ‘is?’ he concluded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t give it to a man flying a thousand ton rock.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Has it gone?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon peered cautiously over the battlements of the Tower of Art, the great spire of crumbling masonry that loomed over Unseen University. The cluster of students nd instructors of magic, far below, nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you sure?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bursar cupped his hands and shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It broke down the hubward door and escaped an hour ago, sir,’ he yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wrong,’ said Trymon. ‘It left, we escaped. Well, I’ll be getting down, then. Did it get anyone?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bursar swallowed. He was not a wizard, but a kind, good-natured man who should not have had to see the things he had witnessed in the past hour. Of course, it wasn’t unknown for small demons, coloured lights and various half-materialised imaginings to wander around the campus, but there had been something about the implacable onslaught of the Luggage that had unnerved him. Trying to stop it would have been like trying to wrestle a glacier.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It—it swallowed the Dean of Liberal Studies, sir,’ he shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon brightened. ‘It’s an ill wind,’ he murmured. He started down the long spiral staircase. After a while he smiled, a thin, tight smile. The day was definitely improving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a lot of organising to do. And if there was something Trymon really liked, it was organising.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The rock swooped across the high plains, whipping snow from the drifts a mere few feet below. Belafon scuttled about urgently, smearing a little mistletoe ointment here, chalking a rune there, while Rincewind cowered in terror and exhaustion and Twoflower worried about his Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Up ahead!’ screamed the druid above the noise of the slipstream. ‘Behold, the great computer of the skies!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind peered between his fingers. On the distant skyline was an immense construction of grey and black slabs, arranged in concentric circles and mystic avenues, aunt and forbidding against the snow. Surely men couldn’t have moved those nascent mountains—surely a troop of giants had been turned to stone by some...</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It looks like a lot of rocks,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Belafon hesitated in mid-gesture.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s very nice,’ added the tourist hurriedly. He sought for a word. ‘Ethnic,’ he decided.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The druid stiffened. <em class="calibre3">‘Nice?’</em> he said. ‘A triumph of the silicon chunk, a miracle of modern masonic technology—<em class="calibre3">nice?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes,’ said Twoflower, to whom sarcasm was merely a seven letter word beginning with S.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What does ethnic mean?’ said the druid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It means terribly impressive,’ said Rincewind hurriedly, ‘and we seem to be in danger of landing, if you don’t mind—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Belafon turned around, only slightly mollified. He raised his arms wide and shouted a series of untranslatable words, ending with <em class="calibre3">‘nice!’</em> in a hurt whisper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rock slowed, drifted sideways in a billow of snow, and hovered over the circle. Down below a druid waved two bunches of mistletoe in complicated patterns, and Belafon skilfully brought the massive slab to rest across two giant uprights with the faintest of clicks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind let his breath out in a long sigh. It hurried off to hide somewhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A ladder banged against the side of the slab and the head of an elderly druid appeared over the edge. He gave the two passengers a puzzled glance, and then looked up at Belafon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘About bloody time,’ he said. ‘Seven weeks to Hogswatchnight and it’s gone down on us again.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hallo, Zakriah,’ said Belafon. What happened this time?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s all totally fouled up. Today it predicted sunrise three minutes early. Talk about a klutz, boy, this is it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Belafon clambered onto the ladder and disappeared from view. The passengers looked at each other, and then tared down into the vast open space between the inner circle of stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What shall we do now?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We could go to sleep?’ suggested Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower ignored him, and climbed down the ladder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Around the circle druids were tapping the megaliths with little hammers and listening intently. Several of the huge stones were lying on their sides, and each was surrounded by another crowd of druids who were examining it carefully and arguing amongst themselves. Arcane phrases floated up to where Rincewind sat:</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It can’t be software incompatibility—the Chant of the Trodden Spiral was <em class="calibre3">designed</em> for concentric rings, idiot...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I say fire it up again and try a simple moon ceremony...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘... all right, all right, nothing’s wrong with the stones, it’s just that the universe has gone wrong, right?...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Through the mists of his exhausted mind Rincewind remembered the horrible star they’d seen in the sky. Something <em class="calibre3">had</em> gone wrong with the universe last night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">How had he come to be back on the Disc?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had a feeling that the answers were somewhere inside his head. And an even more unpleasant feeling began to dawn on him that something else was watching the scene below—watching it from behind his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Spell had crept from its lair deep in the untrodden dirtroads of his mind, and was sitting bold as brass in his forebrain, watching the passing scene and doing the mental equivalent of eating popcorn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He tried to push it back—and the world vanished...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was in darkness; a warm, musty darkness, the darkness of the tomb, the velvet blackness of the mummy case. There was a strong smell of old leather and the sourness of ancient paper. The paper rustled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He felt that the darkness was full of unimaginable horrors—and the trouble with unimaginable horrors was that they were only to easy to imagine...</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind,’ said a voice. Rincewind had never heard a lizard speak, but if one did it would have a voice like that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um,’ he said. ‘Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The voice chuckled—a strange sound, rather papery.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You ought to say "Where am I?" ‘ it said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would I like it if I knew?’ said Rincewind. He stared hard at the darkness. Now that he was accustomed to it, he could see something. Something vague, hardly bright enough to be anything at all, just the merest tracery in the air. Something strangely familiar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ he said. ‘Where am I?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re dreaming.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can I wake up now, please?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said another voice, as old and dry as the first but still slightly different.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We have something very important to tell you,’ said a third voice, if anything more corpse-dry than the others. Rincewind nodded stupidly. In the back of his mind the Spell lurked and peered cautiously over his mental shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve caused us a lot of trouble, young Rincewind,’ the voice went on. ‘All this dropping over the edge of the world with no thought for other people. We had to seriously distort reality, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gosh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And now you have a very important task ahead of you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh. Good.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Many years ago we arranged for one of our number to hide in your head, because we could foresee a time coming when you would need to play a very important role.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Me? Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You run away a lot,’ said one of the voices. That is good. You are a survivor.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Survivor? I’ve nearly been killed dozens of times!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Exactly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But try not to fall off the Disc again. We really can’t have that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who are <em class="calibre3">we,</em> exactly?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a rustling in the darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘In the beginning was the word,’ said a dry voice right ehind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It was the Egg,’ corrected another voice. ‘I distinctly remember. The Great Egg of the Universe. Slightly rubbery.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re both wrong, in fact. I’m sure it was the primordial slime.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A voice by Rincewind’s knee said: ‘No, that came afterwards. There was firmament first. Lots of firmament. Rather sticky, like candyfloss. Very syrupy, in fact—.’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘In case anyone’s interested,’</em> said a crackly voice on Rincewind’s left, ‘you’re all wrong. In the beginning was the Clearing of the Throat—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘—then the word—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Pardon me, the slime—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Distinctly rubbery, I thought—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then a voice said carefully, ‘Anyway, whatever it was, we remember it distinctly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Quite so.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Exactly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And our task is to see that nothing dreadful happens to it, Rincewind.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind squinted into the blackness. ‘Would you kindly explain what you’re talking about?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a papery sigh. ‘So much for metaphor,’ said one of the voices. ‘Look, it is very important you safeguard the Spell in your head and bring it back to us at the right time, you understand, so that when the moment is precisely right we can be said. Do you understand?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind thought: we can be <em class="calibre3">said!</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">And it dawned on him what the tracery was, ahead of him. It was writing on a page, seen from underneath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m <em class="calibre3">in</em> the Octavo?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘In certain metaphysical respects,’ said one of the voices in offhand tones. It came closer. He could feel the dry rustling right in front of his nose...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He ran away.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The single red dot glowed in its patch of darkness. Trymon, still wearing the ceremonial robes from his inauguration as head of the Order, couldn’t rid himself of the feeling that it had grown slightly while he watched. He turned away from the window with a shudder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a star,’ said the Professor of Astrology, ‘I think.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You think?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer winced. They were standing in Unseen University ’s observatory, and the tiny ruby pinpoint on the horizon wasn’t glaring at him any worse than his new master.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, you see, the point is that we’ve always believed stars to be pretty much the same as our sun —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You mean balls of fire about a mile across?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. But this new one is, well—big.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bigger than the sun?’ said Trymon. He’d always considered a mile-wide ball of fire quite impressive, although he disapproved of stars on principle. They made the sky look untidy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A lot bigger,’ said the astrologer slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bigger than Great A’Tuin’s head, perhaps?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer looked wretched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bigger than Great A’Tuin and the Disc together,’ he said. ‘We’ve checked,’ he added hurriedly, ‘and we’re quite sure.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That is big,’ agreed Trymon. The word "huge" comes to mind.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Massive,’ agreed the astrologer hurriedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hmm.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon paced the broad mosaic floor of the observatory, which was inlaid with the signs of the Disc zodiac. There were sixty-four of them, from Wezen the Double-headed Kangaroo to Gahoolie, the Vase of Tulips (a constellation of great religious significance whose meaning, alas, was now lost).</div>
<div class="paragraph">He paused on the blue and gold tilework of Mubbo the Hyaena, and turned suddenly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re going to hit it?’ he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I am afraid so, sir,’ said the astrologer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hmm.’ Trymon walked a few paces forward, stroking his beard thoughtfully. He paused on the cusp of Okjock the Salesman and The Celestial Parsnip.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m not an expert in these matters,’ he said, ‘but I imagine this would not be a good thing?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, sir.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very hot, stars?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer swallowed. ‘Yes, sir.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’d be burned up?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eventually. Of course, before that there would be discquakes, tidal waves, gravitational disruption and probably the atmosphere would be stripped away.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah. In a word, lack of decent organisation.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer hesitated, and gave in. You could say so, sir.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘People would panic?’ ‘Fairly briefly, I’m afraid.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hmm,’ said Trymon, who was just passing over The Perhaps Gate and orbiting smoothly towards the Cow of Heaven. He squinted up again at the red gleam on the horizon. He appeared to reach a decision.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We can’t find Rincewind,’ he said, ‘and if we can’t find Rincewind we can’t find the eighth spell of the Octavo. But we believe that the Octavo must be read to avert catastrophe—otherwise why did the Creator leave it behind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Perhaps He was just forgetful,’ suggested the astrologer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon glared at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The other Orders are searching all the lands between here and the Hub,’ he continued, counting the points on his fingers, ‘because it seems unreasonable that a man can fly into a cloud and not come out...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Unless it was stuffed with rocks,’ said the astrologer, in a wretched and, as it turned out, entirely unsuccessful attempt to lighten the mood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But come down he must—somewhere. Where? we ask ourselves.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where?’ said the astrologer loyally.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And immediately a course of action suggests itself to us.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said the astrologer, running in an attempt to keep up as the wizard stalked across The Two Fat Cousins.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And that course is...?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer looked up into two eyes as grey and bland as steel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um. We stop looking?’ he ventured.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Precisely! We use the gifts the Creator has given us, to whit, we look down and what is it we see?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer groaned inwardly. He looked down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Tiles?’ he hazarded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Tiles, yes, which together make up the...?’ Trymon looked expectant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Zodiac?’ ventured the astrologer, a desperate man.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right! And therefore all we need do is cast Rincewind’s precise horoscope and we will know exactly where he is!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer grinned like a man who, having tap-danced on quicksand, feels the press of solid rock under his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I shall need to know his precise place and time of birth,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Easily done. I copied them out of the University files before I came up here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer looked at the notes, and his forehead wrinkled. He crossed the room and pulled out a wide drawer full of charts. He read the notes again. He picked up a complicated pair of compasses and made some passes across the charts. He picked up a small brass astrolobe and cranked it carefully. He whistled between his teeth. He picked up a piece of chalk and scribbled some numbers on a blackboard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon, meanwhile, had been staring out at the new star. He thought: the legend in the Pyramid of Tsort says that whoever says the Eight Spells together when the Disc is in danger will obtain all that he truly desires. And it will be so soon!</div>
<div class="paragraph">And he thought: I remember Rincewind, wasn’t he the cruffy boy who always came bottom of the class when we were training? Not a magical bone in his body. Let me get him in front of me, and we’ll see if we can’t get all eight—</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer said ‘Gosh’ under his breath. Trymon spun around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Fascinating chart,’ said the astrologer, breathlessly. His forehead wrinkled. ‘Bit strange, really,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How strange?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He was born under The Small Boring Group of Faint Stars which, as you know, lies between The Flying Moose and The Knotted String. It is said that even the ancients couldn’t find anything interesting to say about the sign, which—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, yes, get on with it,’ said Trymon irritably.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s the sign traditionally associated with chess board makers, sellers of onions, manufacturers of plaster images of small religious significance, and people allergic to pewter. Not a wizard’s sign at all. And at the time of his birth the shadow of Cori Celesti—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t want to know all the mechanical details,’ growled Trymon. ‘Just give me his horoscope.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrologer, who had been rather enjoying himself, sighed and made a few additional calculations.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very well,’he said. ‘It reads as follows: "Today is a good tine for making new friends. A good deed may have unforeseen consequences. Don’t upset any druids. You will soon be going on a very strange journey. Your lucky food is small cucumbers. People pointing knives at you are probably up to no good. PS, we really mean it about druids".’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Druids?’ said Trymon. ‘I wonder...’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Are you all right?’ said Twoflower. Rincewind opened his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizard sat up hurriedly and grabbed Twoflower by the shirt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I want to leave here!’ he said urgently. ‘Right now!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But there’s going to be an ancient and traditional ceremony I’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t care how ancient! I want the feel of honest cobbles under my feet, I want the old familiar smell of cesspits, I want to go where there’s lots of people and fires and roofs and walls and friendly things like that! I want to go <em class="calibre3">home!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">He found that he had this sudden desperate longing for the fuming, smoky streets of Ankh-Morpork, which was always at its best in the spring, when the gummy sheen on the turbid waters of the Ankh River had a special iridescence and the eaves were full of birdsong, or at least birds coughing rhythmically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A tear sprang to his eye as he recalled the subtle play of light on the Temple of Small Gods, a noted local landmark, and a lump came to his throat when he remembered the fried fish stall on the junction of Midden Street and The Street of Cunning Artificers. He thought of the gherkins they sold there, great green things lurking at the bottom of their jar like drowned whales. They called to Rincewind across the miles, promising to introduce him to the pickled eggs in the next jar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He thought of the cosy livery stable lofts and warm gratings where he spent his nights. Foolishly, he had sometimes jibed at this way of life. It seemed incredible now, but he had found it boring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now he’d had enough. He was going home. Pickled gherkins, I hear you calling...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pushed Twoflower aside, gathered his tattered robe around him with great dignity, set his face towards that area of horizon he believed to contain the city of his birth, and with intense determination and considerable absentmindedness stepped right off the top of a thirty-foot trilithon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some ten minutes later, when a worried and rather contrite Twoflower dug him out of the large snowdrift at the base of the stones, his expression hadn’t changed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower peered at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you all right?’ he said. ‘How many fingers am I holding up?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I want to go home!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Okay.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, don’t try and talk me out of it, I’ve had enough, I’d like to say it’s been great fun but I can’t, and—what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said okay,’ said Twoflower. ‘I’d quite like to see Ankh-Morpork again. I expect they’ve rebuilt quite a lot of it by now.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It should be noted that the last time the two of them had seen the city it was burning quite fiercely, a fact which had a lot to do with Twoflower introducing the concept of fire insurance to a venial but ignorant populace. But devastating fires were a regular feature of Morporkian life and it had always been cheerfully and meticulously rebuilt, using the traditional local materials of tinder-dry wood and thatch waterproofed with tar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said Rincewind, deflating a bit. ‘Oh, right. Right then. Good. Perhaps we’d better be off, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He scrambled up and brushed the snow off himself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Only I think we should wait until morning,’ added Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, because it’s freezing cold, we don’t really know where we are, the Luggage has gone missing, it’s getting dark—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind paused. In the deep canyons of his mind he thought he heard the distant rustle of ancient paper. He had a horrible feeling that his dreams were going to be very repetitive from now on, and he had much better things to do than be lectured by a bunch of ancient spells who couldn’t even agree on how the Universe began —</div>
<div class="paragraph">A tiny dry voice at the back of his brain said: <em class="calibre3">What things?</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, shut up,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I only said it’s freezing cold and—’ Twoflower began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I didn’t mean you, I meant me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, shut up,’ said Rincewind wearily. ‘I don’t suppose there’s anything to eat around here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The giant stones were black and menacing against the dying green light of sunset. The inner circle was full of druids, scurrying around by the light of several bonfires and tuning up all the necessary peripherals of a stone computer, like rams’ skulls on poles topped with mistletoe, banners embroidered with twisted snakes and so on. Beyond the circles of firelight a large number of plains people had gathered; druidic festivals were always popular, especially when things went wrong. Rincewind stared at them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s going on?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, well,’ said Twoflower enthusiastically, ‘apparently there’s this ceremony dating back for thousands of years to celebrate the, um, rebirth of the moon, or possibly the sun. No, I’m pretty certain it’s the moon. Apparently it’s very solemn and beautiful and invested with a quiet dignity.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind shivered. He always began to worry when Twoflower started to talk like that. At least he hadn’t said ‘picturesque’ or ‘quaint’ yet; Rincewind had never found a satisfactory translation for those words, but the nearest he had been able to come was ‘trouble’.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I wish the Luggage was here,’ said the tourist regretfully. ‘I could use my picture box. It sounds very quaint and picturesque.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd stirred expectantly. Apparently things were about to start.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ said Rincewind urgently. ‘Druids are priests. You must remember that. Don’t do anything to upset them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t offer to buy the stones.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I-’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t start talking about quaint native folkways.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I thought—’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Really</em> don’t try to sell them insurance, that always upsets them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But they’re priests!’ wailed Twoflower. Rincewind paused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ he said. That’s the whole point, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the far side of the outer circle some sort of procession was forming up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But priests are good kind men,’ said Twoflower. ‘At home they go around with begging bowls. It’s their only possession,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Rincewind, not certain he understood. This would be for putting the blood in, right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Blood?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, from sacrifices.’ Rincewind thought about the priests he had known at home. He was, of course, anxious not to make an enemy of any god and had attended any number of temple functions and, on the whole, he thought that the most accurate definition of any priest in the Circle Sea Regions was someone who spent quite a lot of time gory to the armpits.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked horrified.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh no,’ he said. ‘Where I come from priests are holy men who have dedicated themselves to lives of poverty, good works and the study of the nature of God.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind considered this novel proposition.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No sacrifices?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Absolutely not.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind gave up. ‘Well,’ he said, ‘they don’t sound very holy to <em class="calibre3">me.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a loud blarting noise from a band of bronze trumpets. Rincewind looked around. A line of druids marched slowly past, their long sickles hung with sprays of mistletoe. Various junior druids and apprentices followed them, playing a variety of percussion instruments that were traditionally supposed to drive away evil spirits and quite probably succeeded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torchlight made excitingly dramatic patterns on the stones, which stood ominously against the green-lit sky. Hubwards, the shimmering curtains of the aurora coriolis began to wink and glitter among the stars as a million ice rystals danced in the Disc’s magical field.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Belafon explained it all to me,’ whispered Twoflower. We’re going to see a time-honoured ceremony that celebrates the Oneness of Man with the Universe, that was what he said.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked sourly at the procession. As the druids spread out around a great flat stone that dominated the centre of the circle he couldn’t help noticing the attractive if rather pale young lady in their midst. She wore a long white robe, a gold torc around her neck, and an expression of vague apprehension.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is she a druidess?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t think so,’ said Rincewind slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The druids began to chant. It was, Rincewind felt, a particularly nasty and rather dull chant which sounded very much as if it was going to build up to an abrupt crescendo. The sight of the young woman lying down on the big stone didn’t do anything to derail his train of thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I want to stay,’ said Twoflower. ‘I think ceremonies like this hark back to a primitive simplicity which—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yes, yes,’ said Rincewind, ‘but they’re going to sacrifice her, if you must know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked at him in astonishment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, kill her?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t ask me. To make the crops grow or the moon rise or something. Or maybe they’re just keen on killing people. That’s religion for you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He became aware of a low humming sound, not so much heard as felt. It seemed to be coming from the stone next to them. Little points of light flickered under its surface, like mica specks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower was opening and shutting his mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can’t they just use flowers and berries and things?’ he said. ‘Sort of symbolic?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nope.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Has anyone ever tried?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed. ‘Look,’ he said. ‘No self-respecting High Priest is going to go through all the business with the trumpets and the processions and the banners and everything, and then shove his knife into a daffodil and a couple of plums. You’ve got to face it, all this stuff about golden boughs and the cycles of nature and stuff just boils down to sex and violence, usually at the same time.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">To his amazement Twoflower’s lip was trembling. Twoflower didn’t just look at the world through rose-tinted spectacles, Rincewind knew—he looked at it through a rose-tinted brain, too, and heard it through rose-tinted ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The chant was rising inexorably to a crescendo. The head druid was testing the edge of his sickle and all eyes were turned to the finger of stone on the snowy hills beyond the circle where the moon was due to make a guest appearance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s no use you—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">But Rincewind was talking to himself.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">However, the chilly landscape outside the circle was not entirely devoid of life. For one thing a party of wizards was even now drawing near, alerted by Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But a small and solitary figure was also watching from the cover of a handy fallen stone. One of the Disc’s greatest legends watched the events in the stone circle with considerable interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He saw the druids circle and chant, saw the chief druid I raise his sickle...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Heard the voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I say! Excuse me! Can I have a word?’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around desperately for a way of escape. There wasn’t one. Twoflower was standing by the altar stone with one finger in the air and an attitude of polite determination.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind remembered one day when Twoflower had thought a passing drover was beating his cattle too hard, and the case he had made for decency towards animals had left Rincewind severely trampled and lightly gored. The druids were looking at Twoflower with the kind of expression normally reserved for mad sheep or the sudden appearance of a rain of frogs. Rincewind couldn’t quite hear what Twoflower was saying, but a few phrases like ‘ethnic folkways’ and ‘nuts and flowers’ floated across the hushed circle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then fingers like a bunch of cheese straws clamped over the wizard’s mouth and an extremely sharp cutting edge pinked his adams apple and a damp voice right by his ear said, ‘Not a shound, or you ish a dead man.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s eyes swivelled in their sockets as if trying to find a way out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If you don’t want me to say anything, how will you know I understand what you just said?’ he hissed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shut up and tell me what that other idiot ish doing!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, but look, if I’ve got to shut up, how can I—’ The knife at his throat became a hot streak of pain and Rincewind decided to give logic a miss.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘His name’s Twoflower. He isn’t from these parts.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Doeshn’t look like it. Friend of yoursh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ve got this sort of hate-hate relationship, yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind couldn’t see his captor, but by the feel of it he had a body made of coathangers. He also smelt strongly of peppermints.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He hash got guts, I’ll give him that. Do exshactly what I shay and it ish just poshible he won’t end up with them wrapped around a shtone.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urrr.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’re not very ecumenical around here, you shee.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was at that moment that the moon, in due obedience to the laws of persuasion, rose, although in deference to he laws of computing it wasn’t anywhere near where the stones said it should be.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But what was there, peeking through ragged clouds, was a glaring red star. It hung exactly over the circle’s holiest stone, glittering away like the sparkle in the eyesocket of Death. It was sullen and awful and, Rincewind couldn’t help noticing, just a little bit bigger than it was last night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A cry of horror went up from the assembled priests. The crowd on the surrounding banks pressed forward; this looked quite promising.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind felt a knife handle slip into his hand, and the squelchy voice behind him said, ‘You ever done this short of thing before?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What sort of thing?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rushed into a temple, killed the prieshts, shtolen the gold and reshcued the girl.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, not in so many words.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You do it like thish.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Two inches from Rincewind’s left ear a voice broke into a sound like a baboon with its foot trapped in an echo canyon, and a small but wiry shape rushed past him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">By the light of the torches he saw that it was a very old man, the skinny variety that generally gets called ‘spry’, with a totally bald head, a beard almost down to his knees, and a pair of matchstick legs on which varicose veins had traced the street map of quite a large city. Despite the snow he wore nothing more than a studded leather holdall and a pair of boots that could have easily accommodated a second pair of feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The two druids closest to him exchanged glances and hefted their sickles. There was a brief blur and they collapsed into tight balls of agony, making rattling noises. In the excitement that followed Rincewind sidled along towards the altar stone, holding his knife gingerly so as not to attract any unwelcome comment. In fact no-one was paying a great deal of attention to him; the druids that hadn’t fled the circle, generally the younger and more muscular ones, had congregated around the old man n order to discuss the whole subject of sacrilege as it pertained to stone circles, but judging by the cackling and sounds of gristle he was carrying the debate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower was watching the fight with interest. Rincewind grabbed him by the shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let’s go,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shouldn’t we help?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m sure we’d only get in the way,’ said Rincewind hurriedly. ‘You know what it’s like to have people looking over your shoulder when you’re busy.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘At least we must rescue the young lady,’ said Twoflower firmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right, but get a move on!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower took the knife and hurried up to the altar stone. After several inept slashes he managed to cut the ropes that bound the girl, who sat up and burst into tears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s all right—’ he began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It bloody well isn’t!’ she snapped, glaring at him through two red-rimmed eyes. Why do people always go and spoil things?’ She blew her nose resentfully on the edge of her robe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked up at Rincewind in embarrassment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um,’ I don’t think you quite understand,’ he said. ‘I mean, we just saved you from absolutely certain death.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not easy around here,’ she said. ‘I mean, keeping yourself—’ she blushed, and twisted the hem of her robe wretchedly. ‘I mean, staying... not letting yourself be... not losing your qualifications...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Qualifications? said Twoflower, earning the Rincewind Cup for the slowest person on the uptake in the entire multiverse. The girl’s eyes narrowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I could have been up there with the Moon Goddess by now, drinking mead out of a silver bowl,’ she said petulantly. ‘Eight years of staying home on Saturday nights right down the drain!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked up at Rincewind and scowled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he sensed something. Perhaps it was a barely heard footstep behind him, perhaps it was movement reflected n her eyes—but he ducked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something whistled through the air where his neck had been and glanced off Twoflower’s bald head. Rincewind spun round to see the archdruid readying his sickle for another swing and, in the absence of any hope of running away, lashed out desperately with a foot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It caught the druid squarely on the kneecap. As the man screamed and dropped his weapon there was a nasty little fleshy sound and he fell forward. Behind him the little man with the long beard pulled his sword from the body, wiped it with a handful of snow, and said, ‘My lumbago is giving me gyp. You can carry the treashure.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Treasure?’ said Rincewind weakly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All the necklashes and shtuff. All the gold collarsh. They’ve got lotsh of them. Thatsh prieshts for you,’ said the old man wetly. ‘Nothing but torc, torc, torc. Who’she the girl?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She won’t let us rescue her,’ said Rincewind. The girl looked at the old man defiantly through her smudged eyeshadow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bugger that,’ he said, and with one movement picked her up, staggered a little, screamed at his arthritis and fell over.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a moment he said, from his prone position, ‘Don’t just shtand there, you daft bitcsh—help me up.’ Much to Rincewind’s amazement, and almost certainly to hers as well, she did so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind, meanwhile, was trying to rouse Twoflower. There was a graze across his temple which didn’t look too deep, but the little man was unconscious with a faintly worried smile plastered across his face. His breathing was shallow and—strange.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And he felt light. Not simply underweight, but weightless. The wizard might as well have been holding a shadow. Rincewind remembered that it was said that druids used strange and terrible poisons. Of course, it was often said, usually by the same people, that crooks always had close-set eyes, lightning never struck twice in the same lace and if the gods had wanted men to fly they’d have given them an airline ticket. But something about Twoflower’s lightness frightened Rincewind. Frightened him horribly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up at the girl. She had the old man slung over one shoulder, and gave Rincewind an apologetic half-smile. From somewhere around the small of her back a voice said, ‘Got everything? Letsh get out of here before they come back.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind tucked Twoflower under one arm and jogged along after them. It seemed the only thing to do.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The old man had a large white horse tethered to a withered tree in a snow-filled gully some way from the circles. It was sleek, glossy and the general effect of a superb battle charger was only very slightly spoiled by the haemorrhoid ring tied to the saddle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Okay, put me down. There’sh a bottle of shome linament shtuff in the shaddle bag, if you wouldn’t mind...’ Rincewind propped Twoflower as nicely as possible against the tree, and by moonlight—and, he realised, by the faint red light of the menacing new star—took the first real look at his rescuer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man had only one eye; the other was covered by a black patch. His thin body was a network of scars and, currently, twanging white-hot with tendonitis. His teeth had obviously decided to quit long ago.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who are you?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bethan,’ said the girl, rubbing a handful of nasty-smelling green ointment into the old man’s back. She wore the air of one who, if asked to consider what sort of events might occur after being rescued from virgin sacrifice by a hero with a white charger, would probably not have mentioned linament, but who, now linament was apparently what did happen to you after all, was determined to be good at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I meant him,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One star-bright eye looked up at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Cohen ish my name, boy.’ Bethan’s hands stopped moving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Cohen?’ she said. ‘Cohen the Barbarian?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The very shame.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hang on, hang on,’ said Rincewind. ‘Cohen’s a great big chap, neck like a bull, got chest muscles like a sack of footballs. I mean, he’s the Disc’s greatest warrior, a legend in his own lifetime. I remember my grandad telling me he saw him... my grandad telling me he... my grandad...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He faltered under the gimlet gaze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ he said. ‘Oh. Of course. Sorry.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh,’ said Cohen, and sighed. Thatsh right, boy. I’m a lifetime in my own legend.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gosh,’ said Rincewind. ‘How old are you, exactly?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eighty-sheven.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But you were the greatest!’ said Bethan. ‘Bards still sing songs about you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged, and gave a little yelp of pain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I never get any royaltiesh,’ he said. He looked moodily at the snow. That’sh the shaga of my life. Eighty yearsh in the bushiness and what have I got to show for it? Backache, pilesh, bad digeshtion and a hundred different recipesh for shoop. Shoop! I hate shoop!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan’s forehead wrinkled. ‘Shoop?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Soup,’ explained Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yeah, shoop,’ said Cohen, miserably. ‘It’sh my teeths, you shee. No-one takes you sheriously when you’ve got no teeths, they shay "Shit down by the fire, grandad, and have shome shoo—" Cohen looked sharply at Rincewind. That’sh a nashty cough you have there, boy.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked away, unable to look Bethan in the face. Then his heart sank. Twoflower was still leaning against the tree, peacefully unconscious, and looking as reproachful as was possible in the circumstances.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen appeared to remember him, too. He got unsteadily to his feet and shuffled over to the tourist. He humbed both eyes open, examined the graze, felt the pulse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’sh gone,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Dead?’ said Rincewind, In the debating chamber of his mind a dozen emotions got to their feet and started shouting. Relief was in full spate when Shock cut in on a point of order and then Bewilderment, Terror and Loss started a fight which was ended only when Shame slunk in from next door to see what all the row was about.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Cohen thoughtfully, ‘not exshactly. Just—gone.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gone where?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know,’ said Cohen, ‘but I think I know shomeone who might have a map.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Far out on the snowfield half a dozen pinpoints of red light glowed in the shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s not far away,’ said the leading wizard, peering into a small crystal sphere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was general mutter from the ranks behind him which roughly meant that however far away Rincewind was he couldn’t be further than a nice hot bath, a good meal and a warm bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the wizard who was tramping along in the rear stopped and said, ‘Listen!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They listened. There were the subtle sounds of winter beginning to close its grip on the land, the creak of rocks, the muted scuffling of small creatures in their tunnels under the blanket of snow. In a distant forest a wolf howled, felt embarrassed when no-one joined in, and stopped. There was the silver sleeting sound of moonlight. There was also the wheezing noise of half a dozen wizards trying to breathe quietly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t hear a thing—’ one began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ssshh!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right, all right—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then they all heard it; a tiny distant crunching, like omething moving very quickly over the snow crust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wolves?’ said a wizard. They all thought about hundreds of lean, hungry bodies leaping through the night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘N-no,’ said the leader. ‘It’s too regular. Perhaps it’s a messenger?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was louder now, a crisp rhythm like someone eating celery very fast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll send up a flare,’ said the leader. He picked up a handful of snow, rolled it into a ball, threw it up into the air and ignited it with a stream of octarine fire from his fingertips. There was a brief, fierce blue glare.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was silence. Then another wizard said, ‘You daft bugger, I can’t see a thing now.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was the last thing they heard before something fast, hard and noisy cannoned into them out of the darkness and vanished into the night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When they dug one another out of the snow all they could find was a tight pressed trail of little footprints. Hundreds of little footprints, all very close together and heading across the snow as straight as a searchlight.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘A necromancer!’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The old woman across the fire shrugged and pulled a pack of greasy cards from some unseen pocket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Despite the deep frost outside, the atmosphere inside the yurt was like a blacksmith’s armpit and the wizard was already sweating heavily. Horse dung made a good fuel, but the Horse People had a lot to learn about air conditioning, starting with what it meant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan leaned sideways.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s neck romance?’ she whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Necromancy. Talking to the dead,’ he explained.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ she said, vaguely disappointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They had dined on horse meat, horse cheese, horse black pudding, horse d’oeuvres and a thin beer that Rincewind didn’t want to speculate about. Cohen (who’d ad horse soup) explained that the Horse Tribes of the Hubland steppes were born in the saddle, which Rincewind considered was a gynaecological impossibility, and they were particularly adept at natural magic, since life on the open steppe makes you realise how neatly the sky fits the land all around the edges and this naturally inspires the mind to deep thoughts like ‘Why?’, ‘When?’ and ‘Why don’t we try beef for a change?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The chieftain’s grandmother nodded at Rincewind and spread the cards in front of her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind, as it has already been noted, was the worst wizard on the Disc: no other spells would stay in his mind once the Spell had lodged in there, in much the same way that fish don’t hang around in a pike pool. But he still had his pride, and wizards don’t like to see women perform even simple magic. Unseen University had never admitted women, muttering something about problems with the plumbing, but the real reason was an unspoken dread that if women were allowed to mess around with magic they would probably be embarrassingly good at it...</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyway, I don’t believe in Caroc cards,’ he muttered, ‘All that stuff about it being the distilled wisdom of the universe is a load of rubbish.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The first card, smoke-yellowed and age-crinkled, was...</div>
<div class="paragraph">It should have been The Star. But instead of the familiar round disc with crude little rays, it had become a tiny red dot. The old woman muttered and scratched at the card with a fingernail, then looked sharply at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nothing to do with me,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned up the Importance of Washing the Hands, the Eight of Octograms, the Dome of the Sky, the Pool of Night, the Four of Elephants, the Ace of Turtles, and—Rincewind had been expecting it—Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And something was wrong with Death, too. It should have been a fairly realistic drawing of Death on his white horse, and indeed He was still there. But the sky was red lit, and coming over a distant hill was a tiny figure. barely visible by the light of the horsefat lamps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind didn’t have to identify it, because behind it was a box on hundreds of little legs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage would follow its owner anywhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked across the tent to Twoflower, a pale shape on a pile of horsehides.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s really dead?’ he said. Cohen translated for the old woman, who shook her head. She reached down to a small wooden chest beside her and rummaged around in a collection of bags and bottles until she found a tiny green bottle which she tipped into Rincewind’s beer. He looked at it suspiciously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She shays it’s sort of medicine,’ said Cohen. ‘I should drink it if I were you, theshe people get a bit upshet if you don’t accshept hoshpitality.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not going to blow my head off?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She shays it’s esshential you drink it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, if you’re sure it’s okay. It can’t make the beer taste any worse.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took a swig, aware of all eyes on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um,’ he said. ‘Actually, it’s not at all ba—’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Something picked him up and threw him into the air. Except that in another.sense he was still sitting by the fire—he could see himself there, a dwindling figure in the circle of firelight that was rapidly getting smaller. The toy figures around it were looking intently at his body. Except for the old woman. She was looking right up at, him, and grinning.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The Circle Sea ’s senior wizards were not grinning at all. They were becoming aware that they were confronted with something entirely new and fearsome: a young man on the make.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Actually none of them were quite sure how old Trymion really was, but his sparse hair was still black and his skin had a waxy look to it that could be taken, in a poor light, to be the bloom of youth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The six surviving heads of the Eight Orders sat at the long, shiny and new table in what had been Galder Weatherwax’s study and each one wondered precisely what it was about Trymon that made them want to kick him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t that he was ambitious and cruel. Cruel men were stupid; they all knew how to use cruel men, and they certainly knew how to bend other men’s ambitions. You didn’t stay an Eighth Level magus for long unless you were adept at a kind of mental judo.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t that he was bloodthirsty, power-hungry or especially wicked. These things were not necessarily drawbacks in a wizard. The wizards were, on the whole, no more wicked than, say, the committee of the average Rotary Club, and each had risen to pre-eminence in his chosen profession not so much by skill at magic but by never neglecting to capitalise on the weaknesses of opponents.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t that he was particularly wise. Every wizard considered himself a fairly hot property, wisewise; it went with the job.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t even that he had charisma. They all knew charisma when they encountered it, and Trymon had all the charisma of a duck egg.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was it, in fact...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wasn’t good or evil or cruel or extreme in any way but one, which was that he had elevated greyness to the status of a fine art and cultivated a mind that was as bleak and pitiless and logical as the slopes of Hell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And what was so strange was that each of the wizards, who had in the course of their work encountered many a fire-spitting, bat-winged, tiger-taloned entity in the privacy of a magical octogram, had never before had quite the same uncomfortable feeling as they had when, ten minutes late, Trymon strode into the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry I’m late, gentlemen,’ he lied, rubbing his hands briskly. ‘So many things to do, so much to organise, I’m ure you know how it is.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards looked sidelong at one another as Trymon sat down at the head of the table and shuffled busily through some papers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What happened to old Galder’s chair, the one with the lion arms and the chicken feet?’ said Jiglad Wert. It had gone, along with most of the other familiar furniture, and in its place were a number of low leather chairs that appeared to be incredibly comfortable until you’d sat in them for five minutes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That? Oh, I had it burnt,’ said Trymon, not looking up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Burnt? But it was a priceless magical artifact, a genuine—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just a piece of junk, I’m afraid,’ said Trymon, treating him to a fleeting smile. ‘I’m sure real wizards don’t really need that sort of thing, now if I may draw your attention to the business of the day—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s this paper?’ said Jiglad Wert, of the Hood-winkers, waving the document that had been left in front of him, and waving it all the more forcefully because his own chair, back in his cluttered and comfortable tower, was if anything more ornate than Galder’s had been.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s an agenda, Jiglad,’ said Trymon, patiently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And what does a gender do?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s just a list of the things we’ve got to discuss. It’s very simple, I’m sorry if you feel that—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ve never needed one before!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think perhaps you <em class="calibre3">have</em> needed one, you just haven’t used one,’ said Trymon, his voice resonant with reasonableness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wert hesitated. ‘Well, all right,’ he said sullenly, looking around the table for support, ‘but what’s this here where it says—’ he peered closely at the writing—‘ "Successor to Greyhald Spold". It’s going to be old Rhunlet Yard, isn’t it? He’s been waiting for years.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but <em class="calibre3">is</em> he sound?’ said Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">I’m sure we all realise the importance of proper leadership,’ said Trymon. ‘Now, Vard is—well, worthy, of course, in his way, but —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not our business,’ said one of the other wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, but it could be,’ said Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Interfere with the affairs of another order?’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Of course not,’ said Trymon. ‘I merely suggest that we could offer... advice. But let us discuss this later...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards had never heard of the words ‘power base’, otherwise Trymon would never have been able to get away with all this. But the plain fact was that helping others to achieve power, even to strengthen your own hand, was quite alien to them. As far as they were concerned, every wizard stood alone. Never mind about hostile paranormal entities, an ambitious wizard had quite enough to do fighting his enemies in his own Order.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think we should now consider the matter of Rincewind,’ said Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And the star,’ said Wert. ‘People are noticing, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, they say <em class="calibre3">we</em> should be doing something,’ said Lumuel Panter, of the Order of Midnight. ‘What, I should like to know?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, that’s easy,’ said Wert. They say we should read the Octavo. That’s what they always say. Crops bad? Read the Octavo. Cows ill? Read the Octavo. The Spells will make everything all right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There could be something in that,’ said Trymon. ‘My, er, late predecessor made quite study of the Octavo.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We all have,’ said Panter, sharply, ‘but what’s the use? The Eight Spells have to work together. Oh, I agree, if all else fails maybe we should risk it, but the Eight have to be said together or not at all—and one of them is inside this Rincewind’s head.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And we cannot find him,’ said Trymon. That is the case, isn’t it? I’m sure we’ve all tried, privately.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards looked at one another, embarrassed. Eventually Wert said. ‘Yes. All right. Cards on the table. I an’t seem to locate him.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve tried scrying,’ said another. ‘Nothing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve sent familiars,’ said a third. The others sat up. If confessing failure was the order of the day, then they were damn well going to make it clear that they had failed heroically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is that all? <em class="calibre3">I’ve</em> sent demons.’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I’ve</em> looked into the Mirror of Oversight.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Last night I sought him out in the Runes of M’haw.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’d like to make it clear that I tried both the Runes and the Mirror <em class="calibre3">and</em> the entrails of a manicreach.’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I’ve</em> spoken to the beasts of the field and the birds of the Air.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Any good?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nah.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, I’ve questioned the very bones of the country, yea, and the deep stones and the mountains thereof.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a sudden chilly silence. Everyone looked at the wizard who had spoken. It was Ganmack Treehallet, of the Venerable Seers, who shifted uneasily in his seat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, with bells on, I expect,’ said someone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I never said they answered, did I?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon looked along the table.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I’ve</em> sent someone to find him,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wert snorted. ‘That didn’t work out so well the last two times, did it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That was because we relied on magic, but it is obvious that Rincewind is somehow hidden from magic. But he can’t hide his footprints.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve set a tracker?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘In a manner of speaking.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A <em class="calibre3">hero?’</em> Wert managed to pack a lot of meaning into the one word. In such a tone of voice, in another universe, would a Southerner say ‘damnyankee’.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards looked at Trymon, open-mouthed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ he said calmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘On whose authority?’ demanded Wert. Trymon turned his grey eyes on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Mine. I needed no other.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s—it’s highly irregular! Since when have wizards needed to hire heroes to do their work for them?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ever since wizards found their magic wouldn’t work,’ said Trymon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A temporary setback, nothing more.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon shrugged. ‘Maybe,’ he said, ‘but we haven’t the time to find out. Prove me wrong. Find Rincewind by scrying or talking to birds. But as for me, I know I’m meant to be wise. And wise men do what the times demand.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It is a well known fact that warriors and wizards do not get along, because one side considers the other side to be a collection of bloodthirsty idiots who can’t walk and think at the same time, while the other side is naturally suspicious of a body of men who mumble a lot and wear long dresses. Oh, say the wizards, if we’re going to be like that, then, what about all those studded collars and oiled muscles down at the Young Men’s Pagan Association? To which the heroes reply, that’s a pretty good allegation coming from a bunch of wimpsoes who won’t go near a woman on account, can you believe it, of their mystical power being sort of drained out. Right, say the wizards, that just about does it, you and your leather posing pouches. Oh yeah, say the heroes, why don’t you...</div>
<div class="paragraph">And so on. This sort of thing has been going on for centuries, and caused a number of major battles which have left large tracts of land uninhabitable because of magical harmonics.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In fact, the hero even at this moment galloping towards the Vortex Plains didn’t get involved in this kind of argument, because they didn’t take it seriously W mainly because this particular hero was a heroine. A redheaded one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now, there is a tendency at a point like this to look over one’s shoulder at the cover artist and start going on at length about leather, thighboots and naked blades.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Words like ‘full’, ‘round’ and even ‘pert’ creep into the narrative, until the writer has to go and have a cold hower and a lie down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which is all rather silly, because any woman setting out to make a living by the sword isn’t about to go around looking like something off the cover of the more advanced kind of lingerie catalogue for the specialised buyer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Oh well, all right. The point that must be made is that although Herrena the Henna-Haired Harridan would look quite stunning after a good bath, a heavy-duty manicure, and the pick of the leather racks in Woo Hun Ling’s Oriental Exotica and Martial Aids on Heroes Street, she was currently quite sensibly dressed in light chain mail, soft boots, and a short sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All right, maybe the boots were leather. But not black.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Riding with her were a number of swarthy men that will certainly be killed before too long anyway, so a description is probably not essential. There was absolutely nothing pert about any of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Look, they can wear leather if you like.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena wasn’t too happy about them, but they were all that was available for hire in Morpork. Many of the citizens were moving out and heading for the hills, out of fear of the new star.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But Herrena was heading for the hills for a different reason. Just turnwise and rimwards of the Plains were the bare Trollbone Mountains. Herrena, who had for many years availed herself of the uniquely equal opportunities available to any woman who could make a sword sing, was trusting to her instincts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This Rincewind, as Trymon had described him, was a rat, and rats like cover. Anyway, the mountains were a long way from Trymon and, for all that he was currently her employer, Herrena was very happy about that. There something about his manner that made her fists itch.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Rincewind knew he ought to be panicking, but that was difficult because, although he wasn’t aware of it, motions like panic and terror and anger are all to do with stuff sloshing around in glands and all Rincewind’s glands were still in his body.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was difficult to be certain where his real body was, but when he looked down he could see a fine blue line trailing from what for the sake of sanity he would still call his ankle into the blackness around him, and it seemed reasonable to assume that his body was on the other end.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was not a particularly good body, he’d be the first to admit, but one or two bits of it had sentimental value and it dawned on him that if the little blue line snapped he’d have to spend the rest of his li—his existence hanging around ouija boards pretending to be people’s dead aunties and all the other things lost souls do to pass the time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sheer horror of this so appalled him he hardly felt his feet touch the ground. <em class="calibre3">Some</em> ground, anyway; he decided that it almost certainly wasn’t <em class="calibre3">the</em> ground, which as far as he could remember wasn’t black and didn’t swirl in such a disconcerting way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took a look around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sheer sharp mountains speared up around him into a frosty sky hung with cruel stars, stars which appeared on no celestial chart in the multiverse, but right in there amongst them was a malevolent red disc. Rincewind shivered, and looked away. The land ahead of him sloped down sharply, and a dry wind whispered across the frost-cracked rocks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It really did whisper. As grey eddies caught at his robe and tugged at his hair Rincewind thought he could hear voices, faint and far off, saying things like ‘Are you sure those were mushrooms in the stew? I feel a bit —,’ and There’s a lovely view if you lean over this —,’ and ‘Don’t fuss, it’s only a scratch —,’ and Watch where you’re pointing that bow, you nearly—’ and so on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stumbled down the slope, with his fingers in his ears, until he saw a sight seen by very few living men.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ground dipped sharply until it became a vast funnel, ully a mile across, into which the whispering wind of the souls of the dead blew with a vast, echoing susurration, as though the Disc itself was breathing. But a narrow spur of rock arched out and over the hole, ending in an outcrop perhaps a hundred feet across.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a garden up there, with orchards and flowerbeds, and a quite small black cottage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A little path led up to it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked behind him. The shiny blue line was still there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So was the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It squatted on the path, watching him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind had never got on with the Luggage, it had always given him the impression that it thoroughly disapproved of him. But just for once it wasn’t glaring at him. It had a rather pathetic look, like a dog that’s just come home after a pleasant roll in the cowpats to find that the family has moved to the next continent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ said Rincewind. ‘Come on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It extended its legs and followed him up the path.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somehow Rincewind had expected the garden on the outcrop to be full of dead flowers, but it was in fact well kept and had obviously been planted by someone with an eye for colour, always provided the colour was deep purple, night black or shroud white. Huge lilies perfumed the air. There was a sundial without a gnomon in the middle of a freshly-scythed lawn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With the Luggage trailing behind him Rincewind crept along a path of marble chippings until he was at the rear of the cottage, and pushed open a door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Four horses looked at him over the top of their nosebags. They were warm and alive, and some of the best kept beasts Rincewind had ever seen. A big white one had a stall all to itself, and a silver and black harness hung over the door. The other three were tethered in front of a hay rack on the opposite wall, as if visitors had just dropped by. They regarded Rincewind with vague animal curiosity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage bumped into his ankle. He spun around nd hissed, ‘Push off, you!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage backed away. It looked abashed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind tiptoed to the far door and cautiously pushed it open. It gave onto a stone-flagged passageway, which in turn opened onto a wide entrance hall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He crept forward with his back pressed tightly against a wall. Behind him the Luggage rose up on tiptoes and skittered along nervously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The hall itself...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, it wasn’t the fact that it was considerably bigger than the whole cottage had appeared from the outside that worried Rincewind; the way things were these days, he’d have laughed sarcastically if anyone had said you couldn’t get a quart into a pint pot. And it wasn’t the decor, which was Early Crypt and ran heavily to black drapes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the clock. It was very big, and occupied a space between two curving wooden staircases covered with carvings of things that normal men only see after a heavy session on something illegal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had a very long pendulum, and the pendulum swung with a slow tick-tock that set his teeth on edge, because it was the kind of deliberate, annoying ticking that wanted to make it abundantly clear that every tick and every tock was stripping another second off your life. It was the kind of sound that suggested very pointedly that in some hypothetical hourglass, somewhere, another few grains of sand had dropped out from under you.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Needless to say, the weight on the pendulum was knife-edged and razor sharp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something tapped him in the small of the back. He turned angrily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, you son of a suitcase, I told you —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t the Luggage. It was a young woman—silver haired, silver eyed, rather taken aback.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said Rincewind. ‘Um. Hallo?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you alive?’ she said. It was the kind of voice associated with beach umbrellas, suntan oil and long cool drinks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I hope so,’ said Rincewind, wondering if his glands were having a good time wherever they were. ‘Sometimes I’m not so sure. What is this place?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is the house of Death,’ she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Rincewind. He ran a tongue over his dry lips. Well, nice to meet you, I think I ought to be getting along —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She clapped her hands. ‘Oh, you mustn’t go!’ she said. We don’t often have living people here. Dead people are so boring, don’t you think?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Uh, yes,’ Rincewind agreed fervently, eyeing the doorway. ‘Not much conversation, I imagine.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s always "When I was alive – " and "We really knew how to breathe in my day – ",’ she said, laying a small white hand on his arm and smiling at him. They’re always so set in their ways, too. No fun at all. So formal.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Stiff?’ suggested Rincewind. She was propelling him towards an archway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Absolutely. What’s your name? My name is Ysabell.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, Rincewind. Excuse me, but if this is the house of Death, what are you doing here? You don’t look dead to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, I live here.’ She looked intently at him. ‘I say, you haven’t come to rescue your lost love, have you? That always annoys daddy, he says it’s a good job he never sleeps because if he did he’d be kept awake by the tramp, tramp, tramp of young heroes coming down here to carry back a lot of silly girls, he says.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Goes on a lot, does it?’ said Rincewind weakly, as they walked along a black-hung corridor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All the time. I think it’s very romantic. Only when you leave, it’s very important not to look back.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why not?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She shrugged. ‘I don’t know. Perhaps the view isn’t very good. Are you a hero, actually?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, no. Not as such. Not at all, really. Even less than that, in fact. I just came to look for a friend of mine,’ he said wretchedly. ‘I suppose you haven’t seen him?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Little fat man, talks a lot, wears eyeglasses, funny sort of clothes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As he spoke he was aware that he may have missed something vital. He shut his eyes and tried to recall the last few minutes of conversation. Then it hit him like a sandbag.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Daddy?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked down demurely. ‘Adopted, actually,’ she said. ‘He found me when I was a little girl, he says. It was all rather sad.’ She brightened. ‘But come and meet him—he’s got his friends in tonight, I’m sure hell be interested to see you. He doesn’t meet many people socially. Nor do I, actually,’ she added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry,’ said Rincewind. ‘Have I got it right? We’re talking about Death, yes? Tall, thin, empty eye-sockets, handy in the scythe department?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She sighed. ‘Yes. His looks are against him, I’m afraid.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">While it was true that, as has already been indicated, Rincewind was to magic what a bicycle is to a bumblebee, he nevertheless retained one privilege available to practitioners of the art, which was that at the point of death it would be Death himself who turned up to claim him (instead of delegating the job to a lesser mythological anthropomorphic personification, as is usually the case). Owing largely to inefficiency Rincewind had consistently failed to die at the right time, and if there is one thing that Death does not like it is unpunctuality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, I expect my friend has just wandered off somewhere,’ he said. ‘He’s always doing that, story of his life, nice to have met you, must be going —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">But she had already stopped in front of a tall door padded with purple velvet. There were voices on the other side—eldritch voices, the sort of voices that mere typography will remain totally unable to convey until someone can make a linotype machine with echo-reverb and, possibly, a typeface that looks like something said by a slug.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is what the voices were saying:</div>
<div class="paragraph">WOULD YOU MIND EXPLAINING THAT AGAIN?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, if you return anything <em class="calibre3">except</em> a trump, South will be able to get in his two ruffs, losing only one Turtle, one Elephant and one Major Arcana, then —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s Twoflower!’ hissed Rincewind. ‘I’d know that voice anywhere!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">JUST A MINUTE—PESTILENCE IS SOUTH?</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Oh, come on, Mort, He explained that. What if Famine had played a—what was it—a trump return!’</em> It was a breathy, wet voice, practically contagious all by itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, then you’d only be able to ruff one Turtle instead of two,’ said Twoflower enthusiastically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But if War had chosen a trump lead originally, then the contract would have gone two down?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Exactly!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">I DIDN’T QUITE FOLLOW THAT. TELL ME ABOUT PSYCHIC BIDS AGAIN, I THOUGHT I WAS GETTING THE HANG OF THAT. It was a heavy, hollow voice, like two large lumps of lead smashing together.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s when you make a bid primarily to deceive your opponents, but of course it might cause problems for your partner —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower’s voice rambled on in its enthusiastic way. Rincewind looked blankly at Ysabell as words like rebiddable suit’, ‘double finesse’ and ‘grand slam’ floated through the velvet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you understand any of that?’ she asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not a word,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It sounds awfully complicated.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the other side of the door the heavy voice said: ‘DID YOU SAY HUMANS PLAY THIS FOR FUN?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Some of them get to be very good at it, yes. I’m only an amateur, I’m afraid.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">BUT THEY ONLY LIVE EIGHTY OR NINETY YEARS!</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You should know, Mort,’ said a voice that Rincewind hadn’t heard before and certainly never wanted to hear again, especially after dark.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘It’s certainly very—intriguing.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">DEAL AGAIN AND LET’S SEE IF I’VE GOT THE HANG OF IT.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you think perhaps we should go in?’ said Ysabell. A voice behind the door said, I BID... THE KNAVE OF TERRAPINS.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, sorry, I’m sure you’re wrong, let’s have a look at your —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ysabell pushed the door open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was, in fact, a rather pleasant study, perhaps a little on the sombre side, possibly created on a bad day by an interior designer who had a headache and a craving for putting large hourglasses on every flat surface and also a lot of large, fat, yellow and extremely runny candles he wanted to get rid of.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Death of the Disc was a traditionalist who prided himself on his personal service and spent most of the time being depressed because this was not appreciated. He would point out that no-one feared death itself, just pain and separation and oblivion, and that it was quite unreasonable to take against someone just because he had empty eye-sockets and a quiet pride in his work. He still used a scythe, he’d point out, while the Deaths of other worlds had long ago invested in combined harvesters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Death sat at one side of a black baize table in the centre of the room, arguing with Famine, War and Pestilence. Twoflower was the only one to look up and notice Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey, how did you get here?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, some say the Creator took a handful—oh, I see, well, it’s hard to explain but I —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you got the Luggage?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wooden box pushed past Rincewind and settled down in front of its owner, who opened its lid and rummaged around inside until he came up with a small, leatherbound book which he handed to War, who was hammering the table with a mailed fist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s:Nosehinger on the Laws of Contract:,’ he said. It’s quite good, there’s a lot in it about double finessing and how to —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Death snatched the book with a bony hand and flipped through the pages, quite oblivious to the presence of the two men.</div>
<div class="paragraph">RIGHT, he said, PESTILENCE, OPEN ANOTHER PACK OF CARDS. I’M GOING TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THIS IF IT KILLS ME, FIGURATIVELY SPEAKING OF COURSE.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind grabbed Twoflower and pulled him out of the room: As they jogged down the corridor with the Luggage galloping behind them he said:</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What was all that about?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, they’ve got lots of time and I thought they might enjoy it,’ panted Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, playing with cards?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a special kind of playing,’ said Twoflower. ‘It’s called—’ he hesitated. Language wasn’t his strong point. ‘In your language it’s called a thing you put across a river, for example,’ he concluded, ‘I think.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Aqueduct?’ hazarded Rincewind. ‘Fishing line? Weir? Dam?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, possibly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They reached the hallway, where the big clock still shaved the seconds off the lives of the world.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And how long do you think that’ll keep them occupied?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower paused. ‘I’m not sure,’ he said thoughtfully. Probably until the last trump—what an amazing clock...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t try to buy it,’ Rincewind advised. ‘I don’t think they’d appreciate it around here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where is here, exactly?’ said Twoflower, beckoning the Luggage and opening its lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around. The hall was dark and deserted, its tall narrow windows whorled with ice. He looked down. There was the faint blue line stretching away from his ankle. Now he could see that Twoflower had one too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re sort of informally dead,’ he said. It was the best he could manage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’ Twoflower continued to rummage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Doesn’t that worry you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, things tend to work out in the end, don’t you think? Anyway, I’m a firm believer in reincarnation. What would you like to come back as?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t want to go,’ said Rincewind firmly. ‘Come on, let’s get out of—oh, no. Not that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower had produced a box from the depths of the Luggage. It was large and black and had a handle on one side and a little round window in front and a strap so that Twoflower could put it around his neck, which he did.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a time when Rincewind had quite liked the iconoscope. He believed, against all experience, that the world was fundamentally understandable, and that if he could only equip himself with the right mental toolbox he could take the back off and see how it worked. He was, of course, dead wrong. The iconoscope didn’t take pictures by letting light fall onto specially treated paper, as he had surmised, but by the far simpler method of imprisoning a small demon with a good eye for colour and a speedy hand with a paintbrush. He had been very upset to find that out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You haven’t got time to take pictures!’ he hissed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It won’t take long,’ said Twoflower firmly, and rapped on the side of the box. A tiny door flew open and the imp poked his head out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bloody hell,’ it said. ‘Where are we?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It doesn’t matter,’ said Twoflower. The clock first, I think.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The demon squinted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Poor light,’ he said. Three bloody years at f8, if you ask me.’ He slammed the door shut. A second later there was the tiny scraping noise of his stool being dragged up to his easel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind gritted his teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You don’t need to take pictures, you can just remember it!’ he shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It’s not the same,’ said Twoflower calmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s better! It’s more real!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It isn’t really. In years to come, when I’m sitting by the fire —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ll be sitting by the fire forever if we don’t get out of here!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, I do hope you’re not going.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They both turned. Ysabell was standing in the archway, smiling faintly. She held a scythe in one hand, a scythe with a blade of proverbial sharpness. Rincewind tried not to look down at his blue lifeline; a girl holding a scythe shouldn’t smile in that unpleasant, knowing and slightly deranged way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Daddy seems a little preoccupied at the moment but I’m sure he wouldn’t dream of letting you go off just like that,’ she added. ‘Besides, I’d have no-one to talk to.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who’s this?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She sort of lives here,’ mumbled Rincewind. ‘She’s a sort of girl,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He grabbed Twoflower’s shoulder and tried to shuffle imperceptibly towards the door into the dark, cold garden. It didn’t work, largely because Twoflower wasn’t the sort of person who went in for nuances of expression and somehow never assumed that anything bad might apply to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Charmed, I’m sure,’ he said. Very nice place, you have here. Interesting baroque effect with the bones and skulls.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ysabell smiled. Rincewind thought: if Death ever does hand over the family business, she’ll be better at it than he is—she’s bonkers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but we must be going,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I really won’t hear of it,’ she said. You must stay and tell me all about yourselves. There’s plenty of time and it’s so boring here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She darted sideways and swung the scythe at the shining threads. It screamed through the air like a neutered tomcat—and stopped sharply.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the creak of wood. The Luggage had snapped its lid shut on the blade.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked up at Rincewind in astonishment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And the wizard, with great deliberation and a certain amount of satisfaction, hit him smartly on the chin. As the little man fell backwards Rincewind caught him, threw him over a shoulder and ran.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Branches whipped at him in the starlit garden, and small, furry and probably horrible things scampered away as he pounded desperately along the faint lifeline that shone eerily on the freezing grass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">From the building behind him came a shrill scream of disappointment and rage. He cannoned off a tree and sped on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somewhere there was a path, he remembered. But in this maze of silver light and shadows, tinted now with red as the terrible new star made its presence felt even in the netherworld, nothing looked right. Anyway, the lifeline appeared to be going in quite the wrong direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the sound of feet behind him. Rincewind wheezed with effort; it sounded like the Luggage, and at the moment he didn’t want to meet the Luggage, because it might have got the wrong idea about him hitting its master, and generally the Luggage bit people it didn’t like. Rincewind had never had the nerve to ask where it was they actually <em class="calibre3">went</em> when the heavy lid slammed shut on them, but they certainly weren’t there when it opened again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In fact he needn’t have worried. The Luggage overtook him easily, its little legs a blur of movement. It seemed to Rincewind to be concentrating very heavily on running, as if it had some inkling of what was coming up behind it and didn’t like the idea at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Don’t look back, he remembered. The view probably isn’t very nice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage crashed through a bush and vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A moment later Rincewind saw why. It had careened over the edge of the outcrop and was dropping towards the great hole underneath, which he could now see was faintly red lit at the bottom. Stretching from Rincewind, out over the edge of the rocks and down into the hole, were two shimmering blue lines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He paused uncertainly, although that isn’t precisely true because he was totally certain of several things, for example that he didn’t want to jump, and that he certainly didn’t want to face whatever it was coming up behind him, and that in the spirit world Twoflower was quite heavy, and that there were worse things than being dead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Name two,’ he muttered, and jumped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A few seconds later the horsemen arrived and didn’t stop when they reached the edge of the rock but simply rode into the air and reined their horses over nothingness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Death looked down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">THAT ALWAYS ANNOYS ME, he said. I MIGHT AS WELL INSTALL A REVOLVING DOOR.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I</em><em class="calibre3">wonder what they wanted!’</em> said Pestilence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Search me,’ said War. ‘Nice game, though.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right,’ agreed Famine. ‘Compelling, I thought.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">WE’VE GOT TIME FOR ANOTHER FONDLE, said Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rubber,’ corrected War.</div>
<div class="paragraph">RUBBER WHAT?</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You call them rubbers,’ said War.</div>
<div class="paragraph">RIGHT, RUBBERS, said Death. He looked up at the new star, puzzled as to what it might mean.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I THINK WE’VE GOT TIME, he repeated, a trifle uncertainly.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Mention has already been made of an attempt to inject a little honesty into reporting on the Disc, and how poets and bards were banned on pain of—well, pain—from going on about babbling brooks and rosy-fingered dawn and could only say, for example, that a face had launched a thousand ships if they were able to produce certified dockyard accounts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And therefore, out of a passing respect for this tradition, it will not be said of Rincewind and Twoflower that they became an ice-blue sinewave arcing through the dark imensions, or that there was a sound like the twanging of a monstrous tusk, or that their lives passed in front of their eyes (Rincewind had in any case seen his past life flash in front of his eyes so many times that he could sleep through the boring bits) or that the universe dropped on them like a large jelly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It will be said, because experiment has proven it to be true, that there was a noise like a wooden ruler being struck heavily with a C sharp tuning fork, possibly B flat, and a sudden sensation of absolute stillness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This was because they were absolutely still, and it was absolutely dark.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It occurred to Rincewind that something had gone wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he saw the faint blue tracery in front of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was inside the Octavo again. He wondered what would happen if anyone opened the book; would he and Twoflower appear like a colour plate?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Probably not, he decided. The Octavo they were in was something a bit different from the mere book chained to its lectern deep in Unseen University, which was merely a three-dimensional representation of a multidimensional reality, and—</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hold on, he thought. I don’t think like this. Who’s thinking for me?</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind,’ said a voice like the rustle of old pages.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who? Me?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Of course you, you daft sod.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A flicker of defiance flared very briefly in Rincewind’s battered heart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you managed to recall how the Universe started yet?’ he said nastily. ‘The Clearing of the Throat, wasn’t it, or the Drawing of the Breath, or the Scratching of the Head and Trying to Remember It, It was On the Tip of the Tongue?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another voice, dry as tinder, hissed, ‘You would do well to remember where you are.’ It should be impossible to hiss a sentence with no sibilants in it, but the voice made a very good attempt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Remember where I am? Remember where I am?’ shouted Rincewind. ‘Of course I remember where I am, I’m inside a bloody book talking to a load of voices I can’t see, why do you think I’m screaming?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I expect you’re wondering why we brought you here again,’ said a voice by his ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What did he say?’ said another disembodied voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He said no.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He really said no?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This sort of thing happens to me all the time,’ said Rincewind. ‘One minute I’m falling off the world, then I’m inside a book, then I’m on a flying rock, then I’m watching Death learn how to play Weir or Dam or whatever it was, why should I wonder about anything?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, we imagine you will be wondering why we don’t want anyone to say us,’ said the first voice, aware that it was losing the initiative.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated. The thought had crossed his mind, only very fast and looking nervously from side to side in case it got knocked over.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why should anyone want to say you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s the star,’ said the spell. ‘The red star. Wizards are already looking for you; when they find you they want to say all eight Spells together to change the future. They think the Disc is going to collide with the star.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind thought about this. ‘Is it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not exactly, but in a– <em class="calibre3">what’s that?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down. The Luggage padded out of the darkness. There was a long sliver of scytheblade in its lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s just the Luggage,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But we didn’t summon it here!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No-one summons it anywhere,’ said Rincewind. ‘It just turns up. Don’t worry about it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh. What were we talking about?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This red star thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right. It’s very important that you —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hallo? Hallo? Anyone out there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a small and squeaky voice and came from the picture box still slung around Twoflower’s inert neck.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The picture imp opened his hatch and squinted up at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where’s this, squire?’ it said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m not sure.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We still dead?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Maybe.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, let’s hope we go somewhere where we don’t need too much black, because I’ve run out.’ The hatch slammed shut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind had a fleeting vision of Twoflower handing around his pictures and saying things like ‘This is me being tormented by a million demons’ and ‘This is me with that funny couple we met on the freezing slopes of the Underworld.’ Rincewind wasn’t certain about what happened to you after you really died, the authorities were a little unclear on the subject; a swarthy sailor from the Rimward lands had said that he was confident of going to a paradise where there was sherbet and houris. Rincewind wasn’t certain what a houri was, but after some thought he came to the conclusion that it was a little liquorice tube for sucking up the sherbet. Anyway, sherbet made him sneeze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now that interruption is over,’ said a dry voice firmly, ‘perhaps we can get on. It is most important that you don’t let the wizards take the spell from you. Terrible things will happen if all eight spells are said too soon.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I just want to be left in peace,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good, good. We knew we could trust you from the day you first opened the Octavo.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind hesitated. ‘Hang on a minute,’ he said. ‘You want me to run around keeping the wizards from getting all the spells together?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Exactly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s why one of you got into my head?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Precisely.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You totally ruined my life, you know that?’ said Rincewind hotly. ‘I could have really made it as a wizard if you hadn’t decided to use me as a sort of portable spellbook. I can’t remember any other spells, they’re too frightened to stay in the same head as you!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re sorry.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I just want to go home! I want to go back to where—’ a trace of moisture appeared in Rincewind’s eye—‘to where there’s cobbles under your feet and some of the beer isn’t too bad and you can get quite a good piece of fried fish of an evening, with maybe a couple of big green gherkins, and even an eel pie and a dish of whelks, and there’s always a warm stable somewhere to sleep in and in the morning you are always in the same place as you were the night before and there wasn’t all this weather all over the place. I mean, I don’t mind about the magic, I’m probably not, you know, the right sort of material for a wizard, I just want to go <em class="calibre3">home!—’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But you must—’ one of the spells began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was too late. Homesickness, the little elastic band in the subconscious that can wind up a salmon and propel it three thousand miles through strange seas, or send a million lemmings running joyfully back to an ancestral homeland which, owing to a slight kink in the continental drift, isn’t there any more—homesickness rose up inside Rincewind like a late-night prawn biriani, flowed along the tenuous thread linking his tortured soul to his body, dug its heels in and tugged...</div>
<div class="paragraph">The spells were alone inside their Octavo.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Alone, at any rate, apart from the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at it, not with eyes, but with consciousness as old as the Discworld itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And you can bugger off too,’ they said.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘&amp;mdash bad.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind knew it was himself speaking, he recognised the voice. For a moment he was looking out through his eyes not in any normal way, but as a spy might peer through the cut-out eyes of a picture. Then he was back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You okay, Rinshwind?’ said Cohen. ‘You looked a bit gone there.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You did look a bit white,’ agreed Bethan. ‘Like someone had walked over your grave.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Uh, yes, it was probably me,’ he said. He held up his fingers and counted them. There appeared to be the normal amount.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, have I moved at all?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You just looked at the fire as if you had seen a ghost,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a groan behind them. Twoflower was sitting up, holding his head in his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His eyes focused on them. His lips moved soundlessly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That was a really strange... dream,’ he said. ‘What’s this place? Why am I here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well,’ said Cohen, ‘shome shay the Creator of the Univershe took a handful of clay and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, I mean <em class="calibre3">here,’</em> said Twoflower. ‘Is that you, Rincewind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said Rincewind, giving it the benefit of the doubt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There was this... a clock that... and these people who...’ said Twoflower. He shook his head. ‘Why does everything smell of horses?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve been ill,’ said Rincewind. ‘Hallucinating.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes... I suppose I was.’ Twoflower looked down at his chest. ‘But in that case, why have I—’ Rincewind jumped to his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry, very close in here, got to have a breath of fresh air,’ he said. He removed the picture box’s strap from Twoflower’s neck, and dashed for the tent flap.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I didn’t notice that when he came in,’ said Bethan. Cohen shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind managed to get a few yards from the yurt efore the ratchet of the picture box began to click. Very slowly, the box extruded the last picture that the imp had taken.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind snatched at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What it showed would have been quite horrible even in broad daylight. By freezing starlight, tinted red with the fires of the evil new star, it was a lot worse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Rincewind softly. ‘No, it wasn’t like that, there was a house, and this girl, and...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You see what you see and I paint what I see,’ said the imp from its hatch. ‘What I see is real. I was bred for it. I only see what’s really there.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A dark shape crunched over the snowcrust towards Rincewind. It was the Luggage. Rincewind, who normally hated and distrusted it, suddenly felt it was the most refreshingly normal thing he had ever seen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see you made it, then,’ said Rincewind. The Luggage rattled its lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Okay, but what did <em class="calibre3">you</em> see?’ said Rincewind. ‘Did you look behind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage said nothing. For a moment they were silent, like two warriors who have fled the field of carnage and have paused for a return of breath and sanity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then Rincewind said, ‘Come on, there’s a fire inside.’ He reached out to pat the Luggage’s lid. It snapped irritably at him, nearly catching his fingers. Life was back to normal again.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The next day dawned bright and clear and cold. The sky became a blue dome stuck on the white sheet of the world, and the whole effect would have been as fresh and clean as a toothpaste advert if it wasn’t for the pink dot on the horizon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You can shee it in daylight now,’ said Cohen. ‘What is it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked hard at Rincewind, who reddened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why does everyone look at me?’ he said. ‘I don’t know 107 what it is, maybe it’s a comet or something.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Will we all be burned up?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How should I know? I’ve never been hit by a comet before.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were riding in single file across the brilliant snow-field. The Horse people, who seemed to hold Cohen in high regard, had given them their mounts and directions to the River Smarl, a hundred miles rimward, where Cohen reckoned Rincewind and Twoflower could find a boat to take them to the Circle Sea. He had announced that he was coming with them, on account of his chilblains.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan had promptly announced that she was going to come too, in case Cohen wanted anything rubbed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was vaguely aware of some sort of chemistry bubbling away. For one thing, Cohen had made an effort to comb his beard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think she’s rather taken with you,’ he said. Cohen sighed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">If I wash twenty yearsh younger,’ he said wistfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’d be shixty-sheven.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s that got to do with it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well—how can I put it? When I wash a young man, carving my name in the world, well, then I liked my women red-haired and fiery.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And then I grew a little older and for preference I looked for a woman with blonde hair, and the glint of the world in her eye.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh? Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But then I grew a little older again and I came to see the point of dark women of a sultry nature.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He paused. Rincewind waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And?’ he said. ‘Then what? What is it that you look for in a woman now?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen turned one rheumy blue eye on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Patience,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t believe it!’ said a voice behind them. ‘Me riding ith Cohen the Barbarian!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was Twoflower. Since early morning he had been like a monkey with the key to the banana plantation after discovering he was breathing the same air as the greatest hero of all time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is he perhapsh being sharcashtic?’ said Cohen to Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No. He’s always like that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen turned in his saddle. Twoflower beamed at him, and waved proudly. Cohen turned back, and grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s got eyesh, hashn’t he?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but they don’t work like other people’s. Take it from me. I mean—well, you know the Horse people’s yurt, where we were last night?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would you say it was a bit dark and greasy and smelt like a very ill horse?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very accurate deshcription, I’d shay.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He wouldn’t agree. He’d say it was a magnificent barbarian tent, hung with the pelts of the great beasts hunted by the lean-eyed warriors from the edge of civilisation, and smelt of the rare and curious resins plundered from the caravans as they crossed the trackless—well, and so on. I mean it,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’sh mad?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sort of mad. But mad with lots of money.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, then he can’t be mad. I’ve been around; if a man hash lotsh of money he’sh just ecshentric.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen turned in his saddle again. Twoflower was telling Bethan how Cohen had single-handed defeated the snake warriors of the witch lord of S’belinde and stolen the sacred diamond from the giant statue of Offler the Crocodile God.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A weird smile formed among the wrinkles of Cohen’s face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I could tell him to shut up, if you like,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would he?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, not really.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let him babble,’ said Cohen. His hand fell to the handle of his sword, polished smooth by the grip of decades.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyway, I <em class="calibre3">like</em> his eyes,’ he said. They can see for fifty years.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hundred yards behind them, hopping rather awkwardly through the soft snow, came the Luggage. No-one ever asked its opinion about anything.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">By evening they had come to the edge of the high plains, and rode down through gloomy pine forests that had only been lightly dusted by the snowstorm. It was a landscape of huge cracked rocks, and valleys so narrow and deep that the days only lasted about twenty minutes. A wild, windy country, the sort where you might expect to find —</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trollsh,’ said Cohen, sniffing the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared around him in the red evening light. Suddenly rocks that had seemed perfectly normal looked suspiciously alive. Shadows that he wouldn’t have looked at twice now began to look horribly occupied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I like trolls,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No you don’t,’ said Rincewind firmly. ‘You can’t. They’re big and knobbly and they eat people.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No they don’t,’ said Cohen, sliding awkwardly off his horse and massaging his knees. ‘Well-known mishap-prehenshion, that ish. Trolls never ate anybody.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, they alwaysh spit the bitsh out. Can’t digesht people, see? Your average troll don’t want any more out of life than a nice lump of granite, maybe, with perhapsh a nice slab of limeshtone for aftersh. I heard someone shay it’s becosh they’re a shilicashe—a shillycaysheou—Cohen paused, and wiped his beard, ‘made out of rocks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded. Trolls were not unknown in Ankh-Morpork, of course, where they often got employment as bodyguards. They tended to be a bit expensive to keep ntil they learned about doors and didn’t simply leave the house by walking aimlessly through the nearest wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As they gathered firewood Cohen went on, Trollsh teeth, that’sh the thingsh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Diamonds. Got to be, you shee. Only thing that can shtand the rocksh, and they shtill have to grow a new shet every year.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Talking of teeth—’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t help noticing —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, nothing,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh? Oh. Let’sh get thish fire going before we loshe the light. And then,’ Cohen’s face fell, ‘I supposhe we’d better make some shoop.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind’s good at that,’ said Twoflower enthusiastically. ‘He knows all about herbs and roots and things.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen gave Rincewind a look which suggested that he, Cohen, didn’t believe that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, the Horshe people gave us shome horse jerky,’ he said. ‘If you can find shome wild onionsh and stuff, it might make it tashte better.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I—’ Rincewind began, and gave up. Anyway, he reasoned, I know what an onion looks like, it’s a sort of saggy white thing with a green bit sticking out of the top, should be fairly conspicuous.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll just go and have a look, shall I?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Over there in all that thick, shadowy undergrowth?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very good playshe, yesh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where all the deep gullies and things are, you mean?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ideal shpot, I’d shay.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, I thought so,’ said Rincewind bitterly. He set off, wondering how you attracted onions. After all, he thought, although you see them hanging in ropes on market stalls they probably don’t grow like that, perhaps peasants or whatever use onions hounds or something, or ing songs to attract onions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were a few early stars out as he started to poke aimlessly among the leaves and grass. Luminous fungi, unpleasantly organic and looking like marital aids for gnomes, squished under his feet. Small flying things bit him. Other things, fortunately invisible, hopped or slithered away under the bushes and croaked reproachfully at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Onions?’ whispered Rincewind. ‘Any onions here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s a patch of them by that old yew tree,’ said a voice beside him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Rincewind. ‘Good.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a long silence, except for the buzzing of the mosquitoes around Rincewind’s ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was standing perfectly still. He hadn’t even moved his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Eventually he said, ‘Excuse me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Which one’s the yew?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Small gnarly one with the little dark green needles.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes. I see it. Thanks again.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn’t move. Eventually the voice said conversationally, ‘Anything more I can do for you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re not a tree, are you?’ said Rincewind, still staring straight ahead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t be silly. Trees can’t talk.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry. It’s just that I’ve been having a bit of difficulty with trees lately, you know how it is.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not really. I’m a rock.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s voice hardly changed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Fine, fine,’ he said slowly. ‘Well, I’ll just be getting those onions, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Enjoy them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He walked forward in a careful and dignified fashion, spotted a clump of stringy white things huddling in the undergrowth, uprooted them carefully, and turned around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a rock a little way away. But there were rocks everywhere, the very bones of the Disc were near he surface here.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked hard at the yew tree, just in case it had been speaking. But the yew, being a fairly solitary tree, hadn’t heard about Rincewind the arborial saviour, and in any case was asleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If that was you, Twoflower, I knew it was you all along,’ said Rincewind. His voice sounded suddenly clear and very alone in the gathering dusk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind remembered the only fact he knew for sure about trolls, which was that they turned to stone when exposed to sunlight, so that anyone who employed trolls to work during daylight had to spend a fortune in barrier cream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But now that he came to think about it, it didn’t say <em class="calibre3">anywhere</em> what happened to them after the sun had gone down again...</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last of the daylight trickled out of the landscape. And there suddenly seemed to be a great many rocks about.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘He’s an awful long time with those onions,’ said Two-flower. ‘Do you think we’d better go and look for him?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wishards know how to look after themshelves,’ said Cohen. ‘Don’t worry.’ He winced. Bethan was cutting his toenails.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s not a terribly good wizard, actually,’ said Twoflower, drawing nearer the fire. ‘I wouldn’t say this to his face, but’—he leaned towards Cohen—‘I’ve never actually seen him do any magic.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right, let’s have the other one,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Thish is very kind of you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’d have quite nice feet if only you’d look after them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can’t sheem to bend down like I used to,’ said Cohen, sheepishly. ‘Of courshe, you don’t get to meet many chiropodishts in my line of work. Funny, really. I’ve met any amount of snake prieshts, mad godsh, warlordsh, never any chiropodishts. I shupposhe it wouldn’t look right, really—Cohen Against the Chiropodishts...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Or Cohen And The Chiropractors of Doom,’ suggested Bethan. Cohen cackled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Or Cohen And The Mad Dentists!’ laughed Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen’s mouth snapped shut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’sh sho funny about that?’ he asked, and his voice had knuckles in it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, er, well,’ said Twoflower. Tour teeth, you see...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What about them?’ snapped Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower swallowed. ‘I can’t help noticing that they’re, um, not in the same geographical location as your mouth.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen glared at him. Then he sagged, and looked very small and old.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘True, of corsh,’ he muttered. ‘I don’t blame you. It’sh hard to be a hero with no teethsh. It don’t matter what elsh you loosh, you can get by with one eye even, but you show ‘em a mouth full of gumsh and no-one hash any reshpect.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I do,’ said Bethan loyally.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why don’t you get some more?’said Twoflower brightly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh, well, if I wash a shark or something, yesh, I’d grow shome,’ said Cohen sarcastically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, no, you buy them,’ said Twoflower. ‘Look, I’ll show you—er, Bethan, do you mind looking the other way?’ He waited until she had turned around and then put his hand to his mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You shee?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan heard Cohen gasp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You can take yoursh out?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yesh. I’ve got sheveral shets. Excushe me—’ there was a swallowing noise, and then in a more normal voice Twoflower said, ‘It’s very convenient, of course.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen’s very voice radiated awe, or as much awe as is possible without teeth, which is about the same amount as with teeth but sounds a great deal less impressive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I should think show,’ he said. ‘When they ache, you jusht take them out and let them get on with it, yesh?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Teach the little buggersh a lesshon, shee how they like being left to ache all by themshelvesh!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That’s not quite right,’ said Twoflower carefully. They’re not mine, they just <em class="calibre3">belong</em> to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You put shomeone elshe’s teethsh in your mouth?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, someone made them, lots of people wear them where I come from, it’s a—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">But Twoflower’s lecture on dental appliances went ungiven, because somebody hit him.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The Disc’s little moon toiled across the sky. It shone by its own light, owing to the cramped and rather inefficient astronomical arrangements made by the Creator, and was quite crowded with assorted lunar goddesses who were not, at this particular time, paying much attention to what went on in the Disc but were getting up a petition about the Ice Giants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Had they looked down, they would have seen Rincewind talking urgently to a bunch of rocks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trolls are one of the oldest lifeforms in the multiverse, dating from an early attempt to get the whole life thing on the road without all that squashy protoplasm. Individual trolls live for a long time, hibernating during the summertime and sleeping during the day, since heat affects them and makes them slow. They have a fascinating geology. One could talk about tribology, one could mention the semiconductor effects of impure silicon, one could talk about the giant trolls of prehistory who make up most of the Disc’s major mountain ranges and will cause some real problems if they ever awake, but the plain fact is that without the Disc’s powerful and pervasive magical field trolls would have died out a long time ago.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Psychiatry hadn’t been invented on the Disc. No-one had ever shoved an inkblot under Rincewind’s nose to see if he had any loose toys in the attic. So the only way he’d have been able to describe the rocks turning back into rolls was by gabbling vaguely about how pictures suddenly form when you look at the fire, or clouds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One minute there’d be a perfectly ordinary rock, and suddenly a few cracks that had been there all along took on the definite appearance of a mouth or a pointed ear. A moment later, and without anything actually changing at all, a troll would be sitting there, grinning at him with a mouth full of diamonds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They wouldn’t be able to digest me, he told himself. I’d make them awfully ill.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t much of a comfort.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So you’re Rincewind the wizard,’ said the nearest one. It sounded like someone running over gravel. ‘I dunno. I thought you’d be taller.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Perhaps he’s eroded a bit,’ said another one. ‘The legend is awfully old.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind shifted awkwardly. He was pretty certain the rock he was sitting on was changing shape, and a tiny troll—hardly any more than a pebble—was sitting companionably on his foot and watching him with extreme interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Legend?’ he said. ‘What legend?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s been handed down from mountain to gravel since the sunset [<a href="#FbAutId_3" title="An interesting metaphor. To nocturnal trolls, of course, the dawn of time lies in the future."><sup class="calibre11">3</sup></a>] of time,’ said the first troll. ‘ "When the red star lights the sky Rincewind the wizard will come looking for onions. Do not bite him. It is very important that you help him stay alive." ‘</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pause.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s it?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said the troll. ‘We’ve always been puzzled about it. Most of our legends are much more exciting. It was more interesting being a rock in the old days.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It was?’ said Rincewind weakly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes. No end of fun. Volcanoes all over the place. It really <em class="calibre3">meant</em> something, being a rock then.There was none f this sedimentary nonsense, you were igneous or nothing. Of course, that’s all gone now. People call themselves trolls today, well, sometimes they’re hardly more than slate. Chalk even. I wouldn’t give myself airs if you could use me to draw with, would you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Rincewind quickly. ‘Absolutely not, no. This, er, this legend thing. It said you shouldn’t bite me?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right!’ said the little troll on his foot, ‘and it was me who told you where the onions were!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re rather glad you came along,’ said the first troll, which Rincewind couldn’t help noticing was the biggest one there. ‘We’re a bit worried about this new star. What does it mean?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know,’ said Rincewind. ‘Everyone seems to think I know about it, but I don’t —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not that we would mind being melted down,’ said the big troll. That’s how we all started, anyway. But we thought, maybe, it might mean the end of everything and that doesn’t seem a very good thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s getting bigger,’ said another troll. ‘Look at it now. Bigger than last night.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked. It was <em class="calibre3">definitely</em> bigger than last night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So we thought you might have some suggestions?’ said the head troll, as meekly as it is possible to sound with a voice like a granite gargle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You could jump over the Edge,’ said Rincewind. There must be lots of places in the universe that could do with some extra rocks.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ve heard about that,’ said the troll. ‘We’ve met rocks that tried it. They say you float about for millions of years and then you get very hot and burn away and end up at the bottom of a big hole in the scenery. That doesn’t sound very bright.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It stood up with a noise like coal rattling down a chute, and stretched its thick, knobbly arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, we’re supposed to help you,’ it said. ‘Anything you want doing?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I was supposed to be making some soup,’ said Rincewind. He waved the onions vaguely. It was probably not the most heroic or purposeful gesture ever made.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Soup?’ said the troll. ‘Is that all?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, maybe some biscuits too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The trolls looked at one another, exposing enough mouth jewellery to buy a medium-sized city.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Eventually the biggest troll said, ‘Soup it is, then.’ It shrugged grittily. ‘It’s just that we imagined that the legend would, well, be a little more—I don’t know, somehow I thought—still, I expect it doesn’t matter.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It extended a hand like a bunch of fossil bananas.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m Kwartz,’ it said. ‘That’s Krysoprase over there, and Breccia, and Jasper, and my wife Beryl—she’s la bit meta-morphic, but who isn’t these days? Jasper, get off his foot.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind took the hand gingerly, bracing himself for the crunch of crushed bone. It didn’t come. The troll’s hand was rough and a bit lichenous around the fingernails.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m sorry,’ said Rincewind. ‘I never really met trolls before.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re a dying race,’ said Kwartz sadly, as the party set off under the stars. ‘Young Jasper’s the only pebble in our tribe. We suffer from philosophy, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’ said Rincewind, trying to keep up. The troll band moved very quickly, but also very quietly, big round shapes moving like wraiths through the night. Only the occasional flat squeak of a night creature who hadn’t heard them approaching marked their passage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes. Martyrs to it. It comes to all of us in the end. One evening, they say, you start to wake up and then you think "Why bother?" and you just don’t. See those boulders over there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind saw some huge shapes lying in the grass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The one on the end’s my aunt. I don’t know what’s she’s thinking about, but she hasn’t moved for two hundred years.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gosh, I’m sorry.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, it’s no problem with us around to look after them,’ aid Kwartz. ‘Not many humans around here, you see. I know it’s not your fault, but you don’t seem to be able to spot the difference between a thinking troll and an ordinary rock. My great-uncle was actually <em class="calibre3">quarried,</em> you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s terrible!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, one minute he was a troll, the next he was an ornamental fireplace.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They paused in front of a familiar-looking cliff. The scuffed remains of a fire smouldered in the darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It looks like there’s been a fight,’ said Beryl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’re all gone!’ said Rincewind. He ran to the end of the clearing. ‘The horses, too! Even the Luggage!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘One of them’s leaked,’ said Kwartz, kneeling down. ‘That red watery stuff you have in your insides. Look.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Blood!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is that what it’s called? I’ve never really seen the point of it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind scuttled about in the manner of one totally at his wits’ end, peering behind bushes in case anyone was hiding there. That was why he tripped over a small green bottle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Cohen’s linament!’ he moaned. ‘He never goes anywhere without it!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well,’ said Kwartz, ‘you humans have something you can do, I mean like when we slow right down and catch philosophy, only you just fall to bits —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Dying, it’s called!’ screamed Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s it. They haven’t done that, because they’re not here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Unless they were eaten!’ suggested Jasper excitedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hmm,’ said Kwartz, and, ‘Wolves?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We flattened all the wolves around here years ago,’ said the troll. ‘Old Grandad did, anyway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He didn’t like them?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, he just didn’t used to look where he was going. Hmm.’ The trolls looked at the ground again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s a trail,’ he said. ‘Quite a lot of horses.’ He ooked up at the nearby hills, where sheer cliffs and dangerous crags loomed over the moonlit forests.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Old Grandad lives up there,’ he said quietly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something about the way he said it that made Rincewind decide that he didn’t ever want to meet Old Grandad.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Dangerous, is he?’ he ventured.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s very old and big and mean. We haven’t seen him about for years,’ said Kwartz.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Centuries,’ corrected Beryl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’ll squash them all flat!’ added Jasper, jumping up and down on Rincewind’s toes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It just happens sometimes that a really old and big troll will go off by himself into the hills, and—um—the rock takes over, if you follow me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kwartz sighed. ‘People sometimes act like animals, don’t they? And sometimes a troll will start thinking like a rock, and rocks don’t like people much.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Breccia, a skinny troll with a sandstone finish, rapped on Kwartz’s shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are we going to follow them, then?’ he said. ‘The legend says we should help this Rincewind squashy.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kwartz stood up, thought for a moment, then picked Rincewind up by the scruff of his neck and with a big gritty movement placed him on his shoulders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We go,’ he said firmly. ‘If we meet Old Grandad I’ll try to explain...’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Two miles away a string of horses trotted through the night. Three of them carried captives, expertly gagged and bound. A fourth pulled a rough <em class="calibre3">travois</em> on which the Luggage lay trussed and netted and silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena softly called the column to a halt and beckoned one of her men to her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you quite sure?’ she said. ‘I can’t hear anything.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I saw troll shapes,’ he said flatly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked around. The trees had thinned out here, there was a lot of scree, and ahead of them the track led towards a bald, rocky hill that looked especially unpleasant by red starlight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was worried about that track. It was extremely old, but something had made it, and trolls took a lot of killing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She sighed. Suddenly it looked as though that secretarial career was not such a bad option, at that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not for the first time she reflected that there were many drawbacks to being a swordswoman, not least of which was that men didn’t take you seriously until you’d actually killed them, by which time it didn’t really matter anyway. Then there was all the leather, which brought her out in a rash but seemed to be unbreakably traditional. And then there was the ale. It was all right for the likes of Hrun the Barbarian or Cimbar the Assassin to carouse all night in low bars, but Herrena drew the line at it unless they sold proper drinks in small glasses, preferably with a cherry in. As for the toilet facilities...</div>
<div class="paragraph">But she was too big to be a thief, too honest to be an assassin, too intelligent to be a wife, and too proud to enter the only other female profession generally available.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So she’d become a swordswoman and had been a good one, amassing a modest fortune that she was carefully husbanding for a future that she hadn’t quite worked out yet but which would certainly include a bidet if she had anything to say about it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a distant sound of splintering timber. Trolls had never seen the point of walking around trees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked up at the hill again. Two arms of high ground swept away to right and left, and up ahead was a large outcrop with—she squinted—some caves in it?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Troll caves. But maybe a better option than blundering around at night. And come sunup, there’d be no problem.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She leaned across to Gancia, leader of the gang of Morpork mercenaries. She wasn’t very happy about him. It was true that he had the muscles of an ox and the tamina of an ox, the trouble was that he seemed to have the brains of an ox. And the viciousness of a ferret. Like most of the lads in downtown Morpork he’d have cheerfully sold his granny for glue, and probably had.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ll head for the caves and light a big fire in the entrance,’ she said. Trolls don’t like fire.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He gave her a look which suggested he had his own ideas about who should be giving the orders, but his lips said, ‘You’re the boss.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena looked back at the three captives. That was the box all right—Trymon’s description had been absolutely accurate. But neither of the men looked like a wizard. Not even a failed wizard.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Oh, dear,’ said Kwartz.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The trolls halted. The night closed in like velvet. An owl hooted eerily—at least Rincewind assumed it was an owl, he was a little hazy on ornithology. Perhaps a nightingale hooted, unless it was a thrush. A bat flittered overhead. He was quite confident about that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was also very tired and quite bruised.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why oh dear?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He peered into the gloom. There was a distant speck in the hills that might have been a fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ he said. ‘You don’t like fires, do you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kwartz nodded. ‘It destroys the superconductivity of our brains,’ he said, ‘but a fire that small wouldn’t have much effect on Old Grandad.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around cautiously, listening for the sound of a rogue troll. He’d seen what normal trolls could do to a forest. They weren’t naturally destructive, they just treated organic matter as a sort of inconvenient fog.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let’s hope he doesn’t find it, then,’ he said fervently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kwartz sighed. ‘Not much chance of that,’ he said. They’ve lit it in his mouth.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘It’sh a judgeshment on me!’ moaned Cohen. He tugged ineffectually at his bonds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower peered at him muzzily. Gancia’s slingshot had raised quite a lump on the back of his head and he was a little uncertain about things, starting with his name and working upwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I should have been lisshening out,’ said Cohen. ‘I should have been paying attenshion and not being shwayed by all this talk about your wosshnarnes, your <em class="calibre3">din-chewers.</em> I mussht be getting shoft.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He levered himself up by his elbows. Herrena and the rest of the gang were standing around the fire in the cave mouth. The Luggage was still and silent under its net in a corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s something funny about this cave,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, look at it. Have you ever seen rocks like those before?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen had to agree that the semi-circle of stones around the cave entrance were unusual; each one was higher than a man, and heavily worn, and surprisingly shiny. There was a matching semi-circle on the ceiling. The whole effect was that of a stone computer built by a druid with a vague idea of geometry and no sense of gravity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look at the walls, too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen squinted at the wall next to him. There were veins of red crystal in it. He couldn’t be quite certain, but it was almost as if little points of light kept flashing on and off deep within the rock itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was also extremely drafty. A steady breeze blew out of the black depths of the cave.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m sure it was blowing the other way when we came in,’ whispered Bethan. ‘What do you think, Twoflower?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I’m not a cave expert,’ he said, ‘but I was just thinking, that’s a very interesting stalag-thingy hanging from the ceiling up there. Sort of bulbous, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t quite put my finger on why,’ said Twoflower, ‘but I think it might be a rather good idea to get out of here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yesh,’ said Cohen sarcastically, ‘I shupposhe we’d jusht better ashk theesh people to untie ush and let us go, eh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen hadn’t spent much time in Twoflower’s company, otherwise he would not have been surprised when the little man nodded brightly and said, in the loud, slow and careful voice he employed as an alternative to actually speaking other people’s languages: ‘Excuse me? Could you please untie us and let us go? It’s rather damp and drafty here. Sorry.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan looked sidelong at Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Was he supposed to say that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’sh novel, I’ll grant you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">And, indeed, three people detached themselves from the group around the fire and came towards them. They did not look as if they intended to untie anyone. The two men, in fact, looked the sort of people who, when they see other people tied up, start playing around with knives and making greasy suggestions and leering a lot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena introduced herself by drawing her sword and pointing it at Twoflower’s heart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Which one of you is Rincewind the wizard?’ she said. There were four horses. Is he here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, I don’t know where he is,’ said Twoflower. ‘He was looking for some onions.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Then you are his friends and he will come looking for you,’ said Herrena. She glanced at Cohen and Bethan, then looked closely at the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon had been emphatic that they shouldn’t touch the Luggage. Curiosity may have killed the cat, but Herrena’s curiosity could have massacred a pride of lions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She slit the netting and grasped the lid of the box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower winced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Locked,’ she said eventually. ‘Where is the key, fat one?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It—it hasn’t got a key,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There is a keyhole,’ she pointed out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, yes, but if it wants to stay locked, it stays locked,’ said Twoflower uncomfortably.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena was aware of Gancia’s grin. She snarled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I want it open,’ she said. ‘Gancia, see to it.’ She strode back to the fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gancia drew a long thin knife and leaned down close to Twoflower’s face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She wants it open,’ he said. He looked up at the other man and grinned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She wants it open, Weems.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yah.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gancia waved the knife slowly in front of Twoflower’s face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ said Twoflower patiently, ‘I don’t think you understand. No-one can open the Luggage if it’s feeling in a locked mood.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes, I forgot,’ said Gancia thoughtfully. ‘Of course, it’s a magic box, isn’t that right? With little legs, they say. I say, Weems, any legs your side? No?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He held his knife to Twoflower’s throat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m really upset about that,’ he said. ‘So’s Weems. He doesn’t say much but what he does is, he tears bits off people. So open—the—box!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned and planted a kick on the side of the box, leaving a nasty gash in the wood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a tiny little click.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gancia grinned. The lid swung up slowly, ponderously. The distant firelight gleamed off gold—lots of gold, in plate, chain, and coin, heavy and glistening in the flickering shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ said Gancia softly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked back at the unheeding men around the fire, who seemed to be shouting at someone outside the cave. Then he looked speculatively at Weems. His lips moved soundlessly with the unaccustomed effort of mental arithmetic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked down at his knife.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the floor moved.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘I heard someone,’ said one of the men. ‘Down there. Among the—uh—rocks.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s voice floated up out of the darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I say,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’ said Herrena.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re in great danger!’ shouted Rincewind. ‘You must put the fire out!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, no,’ said Herrena. ‘You’ve got it wrong, <em class="calibre3">you’re</em> in great danger. And the fire stays.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s this big old troll —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Everyone knows trolls keep away from fire,’ said Herrena. She nodded. A couple of men drew their swords and slipped out into the darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Absolutely true!’ shouted Rincewind desperately. ‘Only this specific troll can’t, you see.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can’t?’ Herrena hesitated. Something of the terror in Rincewind’s voice hit her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, because, you see, you’ve lit it on his tongue.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the floor moved.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Old Grandad awoke very slowly from his centuries-old slumber. He nearly didn’t awake at all, in fact a few decades later none of this could have happened. When a troll gets old and starts to think seriously about the universe it normally finds a quiet spot and gets down to some hard philosophising, and after a while starts to forget about its extremities. It begins to crystallise around the edges until nothing remains except a tiny flicker of life inside quite a large hill with some unusual rock strata.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Old Grandad hadn’t quite got that far. He awoke from considering quite a promising line of inquiry about the meaning of truth and found a hot ashy taste in what, after a certain amount of thought, he remembered as being his mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He began to get angry. Commands skittered along neural pathways of impure silicon. Deep within his sili-caceous body stone slipped smoothly along special fracture lines. Trees toppled, turf split, as fingers the size of ships unfolded and gripped the ground. Two enormous rock-slides high on his cliff face marked the opening of eyes like great crusted opals.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind couldn’t see all this, of course, since his own eyes were daylight issue only, but he did see the whole dark landscape shake itself slowly and then begin to rise impossibly against the stars.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The sun rose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">However, the sunlight didn’t. What did happen was that the famous Discworld sunlight, which as has already been indicated travels very slowly through the Disc’s powerful magical field, sloshed gently over the lands around the Rim and began its soft, silent battle against the retreating armies of the night. It poured like molten gold [<a href="#FbAutId_4" title="Not precisely, of course. Trees didn’t burst into flame, people didn’t suddenly become very rich and extremely dead, and the seas didn’t flash into steam. A better simile, in fact, would be ‘not like molten gold’."><sup class="calibre11">4</sup></a>] across the sleeping landscape—bright, clean and, above all, slow.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Herrena didn’t hesitate. With great presence of mind she ran to the edge of Old Grandad’s bottom lip and jumped, rolling as she hit the earth. The men followed her, cursing as they landed among the debris.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Like a fat man trying to do press-ups the old troll pushed himself upwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This wasn’t apparent from where the prisoners were lying. All they knew was that the floor kept rolling under them and that there was a lot of noise going on, most of it unpleasant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems grabbed Gancia’s arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a herthquake,’ he said. ‘Let’s get out of here!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not without that gold,’ said Gancia.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The gold, the gold. Man, we could be as rich as Creosote!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems might have had a room-temperature IQ, but he knew idiocy when he saw it. Gancia’s eyes gleamed more than gold, and he appeared to be staring at Weems’ left ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems looked desperately at the Luggage. It was still open invitingly, which was odd—you’d have thought all this shaking would have slammed the lid shut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’d never carry it,’ he suggested. ‘It’s too heavy,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ll damn well carry some of it!’ shouted Gancia, and leapt towards the chest as the floor shook again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lid snapped shut. Gancia vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And just in case Weems thought it was accidental the Luggage’s lid snapped open again, just for a second, and a large tongue as red as mahogany licked across broad teeth as white as sycamore. Then it slammed shut again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To Weem’s further horror hundreds of little legs extruded from the underside of the box. It rose very deliberately and, carefully arranging its feet, shuffled around to face him. There was a particularly malevolent look about its keyhole, the sort of look that says ‘Go on—make my day...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He backed away and looked imploringly at Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it might be a good idea if you untied us,’ suggested Twoflower. ‘It’s really quite friendly once it gets to know you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Licking his lips nervously, Weems drew his knife. The Luggage gave a warning creak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He slashed through their bonds and stood back quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Thank you,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think my back’sh gone again,’ complained Cohen, as Bethan helped him to his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What do we do with this man?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We take hish knife and tell him to bugger off,’ said Cohen. ‘Right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, sir! Thank you, sir!’ said Weems, and bolted towards the cavemouth. For a moment he was outlined against the grey pre-dawn sky, and then he vanished. There was a distant cry of ‘aaargh’.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The sunlight roared silently across the land like surf. Here and there, where the magic field was slightly weaker, tongues of morning raced ahead of the day, leaving isolated islands of night that contracted and vanished as the bright ocean flowed onwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The uplands around the Vortex Plains stood out ahead of the advancing tide like a great grey ship.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It is possible to stab a troll, but the technique takes practice and no-one ever gets a chance to practise more than once. Herrena’s men saw the trolls loom out of the darkness like very solid ghosts. Blades shattered as they hit silica skins, there were one or two brief, flat screams, and then nothing more but shouts far away in the forest as they put as much distance as they could between themselves and the avenging earth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind crept out from behind a tree and looked around. He was alone, but the bushes behind him rustled as the trolls lumbered after the gang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">High above him two great crystalline eyes focussed in atred of everything soft and squelchy and, above all, warm. Rincewind cowered in horror as a hand the size of a house rose, curled into a fist, and dropped towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Day came with a silent explosion of light. For a moment the huge terrifying bulk of Old Grandad was a breakwater of shadow as the daylight streamed past. There was a brief grinding noise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Several minutes passed. Nothing happened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A few birds started singing. A bumblebee buzzed over the boulder that was Old Grandad’s fist and alighted on a patch of thyme that had grown under a stone fingernail.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a scuffling down below. Rincewind slid awkwardly out of the narrow gap between the fist and the ground like a snake leaving a burrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He lay on his back, staring up at the sky past the frozen shape of the troll. It hadn’t changed in any way, apart from the stillness, but already the eye started to play tricks. Last night Rincewind had looked at cracks in stone and seen them become mouths and eyes; now he looked at the great cliff face and saw the features become, like magic, mere blemishes in the rock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wow!’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That didn’t seem to help. He stood up, dusted himself off, and looked around. Apart from the bumble bee, he was completely alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After poking around for a bit he found a rock that, from certain angles, looked like Beryl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was lost and lonely and a long way from home. He —</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a crunch high above him, and shards of rock spattered into the earth. High up on the face of Old Grandad a hole appeared; there was a brief sight of the Luggage’s backside as it struggled to regain its footing, and then Twoflower’s head poked out of the mouth cave.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyone down there? I say?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey!’ shouted the wizard. ‘Am I glad to see you!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know. Are you?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Am I what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Gosh, there’s a wonderful view from up here!’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It took them half an hour to get down. Fortunately Old Grandad had been quite craggy with plenty of handholds, but his nose would have presented a tricky obstacle if it hadn’t been for the luxuriant oak tree that flourished in one nostril.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage didn’t bother to climb. It just jumped, and bounced its way down with no apparent harm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen sat in the shade, trying to catch his breath and waiting for his sanity to catch up with him. He eyed the Luggage thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The horses have all gone,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ll find ‘em,’ said Cohen. His eyes bored into the Luggage, which began to look embarrassed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They were carrying all our food,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Plenty of food in the foreshts.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I have some nourishing biscuits in the Luggage,’ said Twoflower. ‘Traveller’s Digestives. Always a comfort in a tight spot.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve tried them,’ said Rincewind. They’ve got a mean edge on them, and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen stood up, wincing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Excushe me,’ he said flatly. ‘There’sh shomething I’ve got to know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He walked over to the Luggage and gripped its lid. The box backed away hurriedly, but Cohen stuck out a skinny foot and tripped up half its legs. As it twisted to snap at him he gritted his teeth and heaved, jerking the Luggage onto its curved lid where it rocked angrily like a maddened tortoise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey, that’s my Luggage!’ said Twoflower. ‘Why’s he attacking my Luggage?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think I know,’ said Bethan quietly. ‘I think it’s because he’s scared of it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower turned to Rincewind, open-mouthed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Search me,’ he said. ‘I run away from things I’m scared of, myself.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a snap of its lid the Luggage jerked into the air and came down running, catching Cohen a crack on the shins with one of its brass corners. As it wheeled around he got a grip on it just long enough to send it galloping full tilt into a rock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not bad,’ said Rincewind, admiringly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage staggered back, paused for a moment, then came at Cohen waving its lid menacingly. He jumped and landed on it, with both his hands and feet caught in the gap between the box and the lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This severely puzzled the Luggage. It was even more astonished when Cohen took a deep breath and heaved, muscles standing out on his skinny arms like a sock full of coconuts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They stood locked there for some time, tendon versus hinge. Occasionally one or other would creak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan elbowed Twoflower in the ribs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do something,’ she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um,’ said Twoflower. ‘Yes. That’s about enough, I think. Put him down, please.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage gave a creak of betrayal at the sound of its master’s voice. Its lid flew up with such force that Cohen tumbled backwards, but he scrambled to his feet and flung himself towards the box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Its contents lay open to the skies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen reached inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage creaked a bit, but had obviously weighed up the chances of being sent to the top of that Great Wardrobe in the Sky. When Rincewind dared to peek through his fingers Cohen was peering into the Luggage and cursing under his breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Laundry?’ he shouted. ‘Is that it? Just laundry?’ He was shaking with rage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think there’s some biscuits too,’ said Twoflower in a small voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But there wash gold! And I shaw it eat shomebody!’ Cohen looked imploringly at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizard sighed. ‘Don’t ask me,’ he said. ‘I don’t own the bloody thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I bought it in a shop,’ said Twoflower defensively. ‘I said I wanted a travelling trunk.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s what you got, all right,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s very loyal,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes,’ agreed Rincewind. ‘If loyalty is what you look for in a suitcase.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hold on,’ said Cohen, who had sagged onto a rock. Wash it one of thoshe shopsh—I mean, I bet you hadn’t noticed it before and when you went back again it washn’t there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower brightened. ‘That’s right!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shopkeeper a little wizened old guy? Shop full of strange shtuff?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Exactly! Never could find it again, I thought I must have got the wrong street, nothing but a brick wall where I thought it was, I remember thinking at the time it was rather —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged. ‘One of <em class="calibre3">those</em> shops [<a href="#FbAutId_5" title="No-one knows why, but all the most truly mysterious and magical items are bought from shops that appear and, after a trading life even briefer than a double-glazing company, vanish like smoke. There had been various attempts to explain this, all of which don’t fully account for the observed facts. These shops turn up anywhere in the universe, and their immediate non-existence in any particular city can normally be deduced from crowds of people wandering the streets clutching defunct magical items, ornate guarantee cards, and looking very suspiciously at brick walls."><sup class="calibre11">5</sup></a>],’ he said. That explainsh it, then.’ He felt his back, and grimaced. ‘Bloody horshe ran off with my linament!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind remembered something, and fumbled in the depths of his torn and now very grubby robe. He held up a green bottle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’sh the shtuff!’ said Cohen. ‘You’re a marvel.’ He ooked sideways at Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I would have beaten it,’ he said quietly, ‘even if you hadn’t called it off, I would have beaten it in the end.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You two can make yourshelf usheful,’ he added. That Luggage broke through a troll tooth to get ush out. That wash diamond. Shee if you can find the bitsh. I’ve had an idea about them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As Bethan rolled up her sleeves and uncorked the bottle Rincewind took Twoflower to one side. When they were safely hidden behind a shrub he said, ‘He’s gone barmy.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s Cohen the Barbarian you’re talking about!’ said Twoflower, genuinely shocked. ‘He is the greatest warrior that —’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Was,’</em> said Rincewind urgently. ‘All that stuff with the warrior priests and man-eating zombies was years ago. All he’s got now is memories and so many scars you could play noughts-and-crosses on him.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He is rather more elderly than I imagined, yes,’ said Twoflower. He picked up a fragment of diamond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So we ought to leave them and find our horses and move on,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s a bit of a mean trick, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’ll be all right,’ said Rincewind heartily. ‘The point is, would you feel happy in the company of someone who would attack the Luggage with his bare hands?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That is a point,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’ll probably be better off without us anyway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you sure?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Positive,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">They found the horses wandering aimlessly in the scrub, breakfasted on badly-dried horse jerky, and set off in what Rincewind believed was the right direction. A few minutes later the Luggage emerged from the bushes and followed them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sun rose higher in the sky, but still failed to blot out the light of the star.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s got bigger overnight,’ said Twoflower. ‘Why isn’t anybody doing something?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Such as what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower thought. ‘Couldn’t somebody tell Great A’Tuin to avoid it?’ he said. ‘Sort of go around it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That sort of thing has been tried before,’ said Rincewind. Wizards tried to tune in to Great A’Tuin’s mind.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It didn’t work?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, it worked all right,’ said Rincewind. ‘Only...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only there had been certain unforeseen risks in reading a mind as great as the World Turtle’s, he explained. The wizards had trained up on tortoises and giant sea turtles first, to get the hang of the chelonian frame of mind, but although they knew that Great A’Tuin’s mind would be big they hadn’t realised that it would be <em class="calibre3">slow.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s a bunch of wizards that have been reading it in shifts for thirty years,’ said Rincewind. ‘All they’ve found out is that Great A’Tuin is looking forward to something.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who knows?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They rode in silence for a while through a rough country where huge limestone blocks lined the track. Eventually Twoflower said, ‘We ought to go back, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, we’ll reach the Smarl tomorrow,’ said Rincewind. ‘Nothing will happen to them out here, I don’t see why —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was talking to himself. Twoflower had wheeled his horse and was trotting back, demonstrating all the horsemanship of a sack of potatoes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked down. The Luggage regarded him owlishly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What are you looking at?’ said the wizard. ‘He can go back if he wants, why should I bother?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage said nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, he’s not my responsibility,’ said Rincewind. let’s be absolutely clear about that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage said nothing, but louder this time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Go on—follow him. You’re nothing to do with me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage retracted its little legs and settled down on the track.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I’m going,’ said Rincewind. ‘I mean it,’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned the horse’s head back towards the new horizon, and glanced down. The Luggage sat there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s no good trying to appeal to my better nature. You can stay there all day for all I care. I’m just going to ride off, okay?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glared at the Luggage. The Luggage looked back.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘I thought you’d come back,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t want to talk about it,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shall we talk about something else?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah, well, discussing how to get these ropes off would be favourite,’ said Rincewind. He wrenched at the bonds around his wrists.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t imagine why you’re so important,’ said Herrena. She sat on a rock opposite them, sword across her knees. Most of the gang laying among the rocks high above, watching the road. Rincewind and Twoflower had been a pathetically easy ambush.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Weems told me what your box did to Gancia,’ she added. ‘I can’t say that’s a great loss, but I hope it understands that if it comes within a mile of <em class="calibre3">us</em> I will personally cut both your throats, yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded violently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good,’ said Herrena. ‘You’re wanted dead or alive, I’m not really bothered which, but some of the lads might want to have a little discussion with you about those trolls. If the sun hadn’t come up when it did—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She left the words hanging, and walked away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, here’s another fine mess,’ said Rincewind. He had another pull at the ropes that bound him. There was a rock behind him, and if he could bring his wrists up—yes, as he thought, it lacerated him while at the same time eing too blunt to have any effect on the rope.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But why us?’ said Twoflower. ‘It’s to do with that star, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know anything about the star,’ said Rincewind. ‘I never even attended astrology lessons at the University!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I expect everything will turn out all right in the end,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at him. Remarks like that always threw him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you really believe that?’ he said. ‘I mean, really?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, things generally do work out satisfactorily, when you come to think about it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If you think the total disruption of my life for the last year is satisfactory then you might be right. I’ve lost count of the times I’ve nearly been killed —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Twenty-seven,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Twenty-seven times,’ said Twoflower helpfully. ‘I worked it out. But you never actually <em class="calibre3">have.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What? Worked it out?’ said Rincewind, who was beginning to have the familiar feeling that the conversation had been mugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No. Been killed. Doesn’t that seem a bit suspicious?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve never objected to it, if that’s what you mean,’ said Rincewind. He glared at his feet. Twoflower was right, of course. The Spell was keeping him alive, it was obvious. No doubt if he jumped over a cliff a passing cloud would cushion his fall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The trouble with that theory, he decided, was that it only worked if he didn’t believe it was true. The moment he thought he was invulnerable he’d be dead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So, on the whole it was wisest not to think about it at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anyway, he might be wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The only thing he could be certain of was that he was getting a headache. He hoped that the Spell was somewhere in the area of the headache and really suffering.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When they rode out of the hollow both Rincewind and Twoflower were sharing a horse with one of their captors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind perched uncomfortably in front of Weems. who had sprained an ankle and was not in a good mood. Twoflower sat in front of Herrena which, since he was fairly short, meant that at least he kept his ears warm. She rode with a drawn knife and a sharp eye out for any-walking boxes; Herrena hadn’t quite worked out what the Luggage was, but she was bright enough to know that it wouldn’t let Twoflower be killed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After about ten minutes they saw it in the middle of the road. It’s lid lay open invitingly. It was full of gold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Go round it,’ said Herrena.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a trap.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right,’ said Weems, white-faced. ‘You take it from me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Reluctantly they reined their horses around the glittering temptation and trotted on along the track. Weems glanced back fearfully, dreading to see the chest coming after him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What he saw was almost worse. It had gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Far off to one side of the path the long grass moved mysteriously and was still.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind wasn’t much of a wizard and even less of a fighter, but he was an expert at cowardice and he knew fear when he smelt it. He said, quietly, ‘It’ll follow you, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Weems, distractedly. He was still peering at the grass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s very patient and it never gives up. That’s sapient pearwood you’re dealing with. It’ll let you think it’s forgotten you, then one day you’ll be walking along a dark street and you’ll hear these little footsteps behind you—shlup, shlup, they’ll go, then you’ll start running and they’ll speed up, shlupshlupSHLUP—’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shut up!’ shouted Weems.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s probably already recognised you, so —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said shut up!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena turned around in her saddle and glared at them. Weems scowled and pulled Rincewind’s ear until it was ight in front his mouth, and said hoarsely, I’m afraid of nothing, understand? This wizard stuff, I spit on it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They all say that until they hear the footsteps,’ said Rincewind. He stopped. A knifepoint was pricking his ribs.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Nothing happened for the rest of the day but, to Rincewind’s satisfaction and Weems’ mounting paranoia, the Luggage showed itself several times. Here it would be perched incongruously on a crag, there it would be half-hidden in a ditch with moss growing over it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">By late afternoon they came to the crest of a hill and looked down on the broad valley of the upper Smarl, the longest river on the Disc. It was already half a mile across, and heavy with the silt that made the lower valley the most fertile area on the continent. A few wisps of early mist wreathed its banks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shlup,’ said Rincewind. He felt Weems jerk upright in the saddle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just clearing my throat,’ said Rincewind, and grinned. He had put a lot of thought into that grin. It was the sort of grin people use when they stare at your left ear and tell you in an urgent tone of voice that they are being spied on by secret agents from the next galaxy. It was not a grin to inspire confidence. More horrible grins had probably been seen, but only on the sort of grinner that is orange with black stripes, has a long tail and hangs around in jungles looking for victims to grin at.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Wipe that off,’ said Herrena, trotting up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Where the track led down to the river bank there was a crude jetty and a big bronze gong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’ll summon the ferryman,’ said Herrena. ‘If we cross here we can cut off a big bend in the river. Might even make it to a town tonight.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems looked doubtful. The sun was getting fat and red, and the mists were beginning to thicken.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Or maybe you want to spend the night this side of the water?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems picked up the hammer and hit the gong so hard that it spun right around on its hanger and fell off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They waited in silence. Then with a wet clinking sound a chain sprang out of the water and pulled taut against an iron peg set into the bank. Eventually the slow flat shape of the ferry emerged from the mist, its hooded ferryman heaving on a big wheel set in its centre as he winched his way towards the shore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ferry’s flat bottom grated on the gravel, and the hooded figure leaned against the wheel panting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Two at a time,’ it muttered.’ That’sh all. Jusht two, with horshesh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind swallowed, and tried not to look at Twoflower. The man would probably be grinning and mugging like an idiot. He risked <em class="calibre3">a</em> sideways glance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower was sitting with his mouth open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re not the usual ferryman,’ said Herrena. ‘I’ve been here before, the usual man is a big fellow, sort of —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’sh hish day off.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, okay,’ she said doubtfully. ‘In that case—<em class="calibre3">what’s he laughing at?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower’s shoulders were shaking, his face had gone red, and he was emitting muffled snorts. Herrena glared at him, then looked hard at the ferryman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Two of you—grab him!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then one of the men said, ‘What, the ferryman?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena looked blank. This sort of thing wasn’t supposed to happen. It was accepted that when someone yelled something like ‘Get him!’ or ‘Guards!’ people jumped to it, they weren’t supposed to sit around discussing things.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Because I said so!’ was the best she could manage. The two men nearest to the bowed figure looked at each ther, shrugged, dismounted, and each took a shoulder. The ferryman was about half their size.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Like this?’ said one of them. Twoflower was choking for breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now I want to see what he’s got under that robe.’ The two men exchanged glances. ‘I’m not sure that—’ said one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He got no further because a knobbly elbow jerked into his stomach like a piston. His companion looked down incredulously and got the other elbow in the kidneys.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen cursed as he struggled to untangle his sword from his robe while hopping crabwise towards Herrena. Rincewind groaned, gritted his teeth, and jerked his head backwards hard. There was a scream from Weems and Rincewind rolled sideways, landed heavily in the mud, scrambled up madly and looked around for somewhere to hide.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a cry of triumph Cohen managed to free his sword and waved it triumphantly, severely wounding a man who had been creeping up behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena pushed Twoflower off her horse and fumbled for her own blade. Twoflower tried to stand up and caused the horse of another man to rear, throwing him off and bringing his head down to the right level for Rincewind to kick it as hard as possible. Rincewind would be the first to call himself a rat, but even rats fight in a corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems’ hands dropped onto his shoulder and a fist like a medium-sized rock slammed into his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As he went down he heard Herrena say, quite quietly, ‘Kill them both. I’ll deal with this old fool.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Roight!’ said Weems, and turned towards Twoflower with his sword drawn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind saw him hesitate. There was a moment of silence, and then even Herrena could hear the splashing as the Luggage surged ashore, water pouring from it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Weems stared at it in horror. His sword fell from his hand. He turned and ran into the mists. A moment later he Luggage bounded over Rincewind and followed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena lunged at Cohen, who parried the thrust and grunted as his arm twinged. The blades clanged wetly, and then Herrena was forced to back away as a cunning upward sweep from Cohen nearly disarmed her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind staggered towards Twoflower and tugged at him ineffectually.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Time to be going,’ he muttered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is great!’ said Twoflower. ‘Did you see the way he —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, yes, come on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I want—I say, well done!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena’s sword spun out of her hand and stood quivering in the dirt. With a snort of satisfaction Cohen brought his own sword back, went momentarily crosseyed, gave a little yelp of pain, and stood absolutely motionless.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Herrena looked at him, puzzled. She made an experimental move in the direction of her own sword and when nothing happened she grasped it, tested its balance, and stared at Cohen. Only his agonised eyes moved to follow her as she circled him cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘His back’s gone again!’ whispered Twoflower. ‘What can we do?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We can see if we can catch the horses?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well,’ said Herrena, ‘I don’t know who you are or why you’re here, and there’s nothing personal about this, you understand.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She raised her sword in both hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a sudden movement in the mists and the dull thud of a heavy piece of wood hitting a head. Herrena looked bewildered for a moment, and then fell forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan dropped the branch she had been holding and looked at Cohen. Then she grabbed him by the shoulders, stuck her knee in the small of his back, gave a businesslike twist and let him go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">An expression of bliss passed across his face. He gave an experimental bend.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s gone!’ he said. ‘The back! Gone!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower turned to Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘My father used to recommend hanging from the top of a door,’ he said conversationally.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Weems crept very cautiously through the scrubby, mist-laden trees. The pale damp air muffled all sounds, but he was certain that there had been nothing to hear for the past ten minutes. He turned around very slowly, and then allowed himself the luxury of a long, heartfelt sigh. He stepped back into the cover of the bushes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something nudged the back of his knees, very gently. Something angular.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked down. There seemed to be more feet down there than there ought to be.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a short, sharp snap.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The fire was a tiny dot of light in a dark landscape. The moon wasn’t up yet, but the star was a lurking glow on the horizon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s circular now,’ said Bethan. ‘It looks like a tiny sun. I’m sure it’s getting hotter, too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t,’ said Rincewind. ‘As if I hadn’t got enough to worry about.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What I don’t understand,’ said Cohen, who was having his back massaged, ‘ish how they captured you without ush hearing it. We wouldn’t have known at all if your Luggage hadn’t kept jumping up and down.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And whining,’ said Bethan. They all looked at her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, it <em class="calibre3">looked</em> as if it was whining,’ she said. ‘I think it’s rather sweet, really.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Four pairs of eyes turned towards the Luggage, which was squatting on the other side of the fire. It got up, and very pointedly moved back into the shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eashy to feed,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hard to lose,’ agreed Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Loyal,’ suggested Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Roomy,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I wouldn’t say sweet,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I shuppose you wouldn’t want to shell it?’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower shook his head. ‘I don’t think it would understand,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, I shupposhe not,’ said Cohen. He sat up, and bit his lip. ‘I wash looking for a preshent for Bethan, you shee. We’re getting married.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We thought you ought to be the first to know,’ said Bethan, and blushed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind didn’t catch Twoflower’s eye.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, that’s very, er —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just as soon as we find a town where there’s a priest,’ said Bethan. ‘I want it done properly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s very important,’ said Twoflower seriously. ‘If there were more morals about we wouldn’t be crashing into stars.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They considered this for a moment. Then Twoflower said brightly, ‘This calls for a celebration. I’ve got some biscuits and water, if you’ve still got some of that jerky.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, good,’ said Rincewind weakly. He beckoned Cohen to one side. With his beard trimmed the old man could easily have passed for seventy on a dark night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is, uh, serious?’ he said. ‘You’re really going to marry her?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Share thing. Any objections?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, no, of course not, but—I mean, she’s seventeen and you’re, you’re, how can I put it, you’re of the elderly persuasion.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Time I shettled down, you mean?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind groped for words. ‘You’re seventy years older than her, Cohen. Are you sure that —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I have been married before, you know. I’ve got quite a good memory,’ said Cohen reproachfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, what I mean is, well, I mean physically, the point is, what about, you know, the age difference and everything, t’s a matter of health, isn’t it, and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Cohen slowly, ‘I shee what you mean. The strain. I hadn’t looked at it like that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Rincewind, straightening up. ‘No, well, that’s only to be expected.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve given me something to think about and no mishtake,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I hope I haven’t upset anything.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, no,’ said Cohen vaguely. ‘Don’t apologishe. You were right to point it out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned and looked at Bethan, who waved at him, and then he looked up at the star that glared through the mists.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Eventually he said, ‘Dangerous times, these.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s a fact.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who knows what tomorrow may bring?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen clapped Rincewind on the shoulder. ‘Shome-timesh we jusht have to take rishks,’ he said. ‘Don’t be offended, but I think we’ll go ahead with the wedding anyway and, well,’ he looked at Bethan and sighed, ‘we’ll just have to hope she’s shtrong enough.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Around noon the following day they rode into a small, mud-walled city surrounded by fields still lush and green. There seemed to be a lot of traffic going the other way, though. Huge carts rumbled past them. Herds of livestock ambled along the crown of the road. Old ladies stomped past carrying entire households and haystacks on their backs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Plague?’ said Rincewind, stopping a man pushing a handcart full of children.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He shook his head. ‘It’s the star, friend,’ he said. ‘Haven’t you seen it in the sky?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We couldn’t help noticing it, yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They say that it’ll hit us on Hogswatchnight and the seas will boil and the countries of the Disc will be broken nd kings will be brought down and the cities will be as lakes of glass,’ said the man. ‘I’m off to the mountains.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’ll help, will it?’ said Rincewind doubtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, but the view will be better.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind rode back to the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Everyone’s worried about the star,’ he said. ‘Apparently there’s hardly anyone left in the cities, they’re all frightened of it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t want to worry anyone,’ said Bethan, ‘but hasn’t it struck you as unseasonably hot?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s what I said last night,’ said Twoflower. ‘Very warm, I thought.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I shuspect it’ll get a lot hotter,’ said Cohen. ‘Let’sh get on into the city.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They rode through echoing streets that were practically deserted. Cohen kept peering at merchants’ signs until he reined his horse and said, ‘Thish ish what I’ve been looking for. You find a temple and a priesht, I’ll join you shortly.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A jeweller?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a shuprishe.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I could do with a new dress, too,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll shteal you one.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something very oppressive about the city, Rincewind decided. There was also something very odd.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Almost every door was painted with a large red star.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s creepy,’ said Bethan. ‘As if people wanted to bring the star here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Or keep it away,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That won’t work. It’s too big,’ said Rincewind. He saw their faces turned towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, it stands to reason, doesn’t it?’ he said lamely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Stars are small lights in the sky,’ said Twoflower. ‘One fell down near my home once—big white thing, size of a house, glowed for weeks before it went out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This star is different,’ said a voice. ‘Great A’Tuin has climbed the beach of the universe. This is the great ocean of space.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How do you know?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Know what?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What you just said. About beaches and oceans.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I didn’t say anything!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes you did, you silly man!’ yelled Bethan. ‘We saw your lips going up and down and everything!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind shut his eyes. Inside his mind he could feel the Spell scuttling off to hide behind his conscience, and muttering to itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right, all right,’ he said. ‘No need to shout. I—I don’t know how I know, I just <em class="calibre3">know —.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I wish you’d tell us.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They turned the corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All the cities around the Circle Sea had a special area set aside for the gods, of which the Disc had an elegant sufficiency. Usually they were crowded and not very attractive from an architectural point of view. The most senior gods, of course, had large and splendid temples, but the trouble was that later gods demanded equality and soon the holy areas were sprawling with lean-to’s, annexes, loft conversions, sub-basements, bijou flatlets, ecclesiastical infilling and trans-temporal timesharing, since no god would dream of living outside the holy quarter or, as it had become, three-eighths. There were usually three hundred different types of incense being burned and the noise was normally at pain threshold because of all the priests vying with each other to call their share of the faithful to prayer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But this street was deathly quiet, that particularly unpleasant quiet that comes when hundreds of frightened and angry people are standing very still.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A man at the edge of the crowd turned around and scowled at the newcomers. He had a red star painted on his forehead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s—’ Rincewind began, and stopped as his voice seemed far too loud, ‘what’s this?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re strangers?’ said the man.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Actually we know one another quite—’ Twoflower egan, and fell silent. Bethan pointed up the street.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Every temple had a star painted on it. There was a particularly big one daubed across the stone eye outside the temple of Blind Io, leader of the gods.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urgh,’ said Rincewind. ‘Io is going to be really pissed when he sees that. I don’t think we ought to hang around here, friends.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd was facing a crude platform that had been built in the centre of the wide street. A big banner had been draped across the front of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I always heard that Blind Io can see everything that happens everywhere,’ said Bethan quietly. ‘Why hasn’t —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Quiet!’ said the man beside them. ‘Dahoney speaks!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A figure had stepped up on the platform, a tall thin man with hair like a dandelion. There was no cheer from the crowd, just a collective sigh. He began to speak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind listened in mounting horror. Where were the gods? said the man. They had gone. Perhaps they had never been. Who, actually, could remember seeing them? And now the star had been sent —</div>
<div class="paragraph">It went on and on, a quiet, clear voice that used words like ‘cleanse’ and ‘scouring’ and ‘purify’ and drilled into the brain like a hot sword. Where were the wizards? Where was magic? Had it ever really worked, or had it all been a dream?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind began to be really afraid that the gods might get to hear about this and be so angry that they’d take it out on anyone who happened to have been around at the time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But somehow even the wrath of the gods would have been better than the sound of that voice. The star was coming, it seemed to say, and its fearful fire could only be averted by—by—Rincewind couldn’t be certain, but he had visions of swords and banners and blank-eyed warriors. The voice didn’t believe in gods, which in Rincewind’s book was fair enough, but it didn’t believe in people either.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A tall hooded stranger on Rincewind’s left jostled him. He turned—and looked up into a grinning skuli nder a black hood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wizards, like cats, can see Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Compared to the sound of that voice, Death seemed almost pleasant. He leaned against a wall, his scythe propped up beside him. He nodded at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Come to gloat?’ whispered Rincewind. Death shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I HAVE COME TO SEE THE FUTURE, he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is the future?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A FUTURE, said Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s horrible,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I’M INCLINED TO AGREE, said Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I would have thought you’d be all for it I’</div>
<div class="paragraph">NOT LIKE THIS. THE DEATH OF THE WARRIOR OR THE OLD MAN OR THE LITTLE CHILD, THIS I UNDERSTAND, AND I TAKE AWAY THE PAIN AND END THE SUFFERING. I DO NOT UNDERSTAND THIS DEATH-OF-THE-MIND.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who are you talking to?’ said Twoflower. Several members of the congregation had turned around and were looking suspiciously at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nobody,’ said Rincewind. ‘Can we go away? I’ve got a headache.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now a group of people at the edge of the crowd were muttering and pointing to them. Rincewind grabbed the other two and hurried them around the corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Mount up and let’s go,’ he said. ‘I’ve got a bad feeling that —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hand landed on his shoulder. He turned around. A pair of cloudy grey eyes set in a round bald head on top of a large muscular body were staring hard at his left ear. The man had a star painted on his forehead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You look like a wizard,’ he said, in a tone of voice that suggested this was very unwise and quite possibly fatal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who, me? No, I’m—a clerk. Yes. A clerk. That’s right,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He gave a little laugh.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man paused, his lips moving soundlessly, as though he was listening to a voice in his head. Several ther star people had joined him. Rincewind’s left ear began to be widely regarded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think you’re a wizard,’ said the man.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ said Rincewind, ‘if I was a wizard I’d be able to do magic, right? I’d just turn you into something, and I haven’t, so I’m not.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We killed all our wizards,’ said one of the men. ‘Some ran away, but we killed quite a lot. They waved their hands and nothing came out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And we think you’re a wizard too,’ said the man holding Rincewind in an ever-tightening grip. ‘You’ve got the box on legs and you look like a wizard.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind became aware that the three of them and the Luggage had somehow become separated from their horses, and that they were now in a contracting circle of grey-faced, solemn people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan had gone pale. Even Twoflower, whose ability to recognise danger was as good as Rincewind’s ability to fly, was looking worried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a deep breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He raised his hands in the classic pose he’d learned years before, and rasped, ‘Stand back! Or I’ll fill you full of magic!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The magic has faded,’ said the man. ‘The star has taken it away. All the false wizards said their funny words and then nothing happened and they looked at their hands in horror and very few of them, in fact, had the sense to run away.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean it!’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He’s going to kill me, he thought. That’s it. I can’t even bluff any more. No good at magic, no good at bluffing, I’m just a —</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Spell stirred in his mind. He felt it trickle into his brain like iced water and brace itself. A cold tingle coursed down his arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His arm raised of its own volition, and he felt his own mouth opening and shutting and his own tongue moving as a voice that wasn’t his, a voice that sounded old and dry, said syllables that puffed into the air like steam clouds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Octarine fire flashed from under his fingernails. It wrapped itself around the horrified man until he was lost in a cold, spitting cloud that rose above the street, hung there for a long moment, and then exploded into nothingness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There wasn’t even a wisp of greasy smoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared at his hand in horror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower and Bethan each grabbed him by an arm and hustled him through the shocked crowd until they reached the open street. There was a painful moment as they each chose to run down a different alley, but they hurried on with Rincewind’s feet barely touching the cobbles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Magic,’ he mumbled excitedly, drunk with power. ‘I did magic...’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right,’ said Twoflower soothingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would you like me to do a spell?’ said Rincewind. He pointed a finger at a passing dog and said ‘Wheeee!’ It gave him a hurt look.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Making your feet run a lot faster’d be favourite,’ said Bethan grimly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sure!’ slurred Rincewind. ‘Feet! Run faster! Hey, look, they’re doing it!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’ve got more sense than you,’ said Bethan. ‘Which way now?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower peered at the maze of alleyways around them. There was a lot of shouting going on, some way off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind lurched 6ut of their grasp, and tottered uncertainly down the nearest alley.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can do it!’ he shouted wildly. ‘Just you all watch out —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s in shock,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s never done a spell before.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But he’s a wiizard!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s all a bit complicated,’ said Twoflower, running after Rincewind. ‘Anyway, I’m not sure that was actually him. it certainly didn’t sound like him. Come along, old fellow.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at him with wild, unseeing eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll turn <em class="calibre3">you</em> into a rosebush,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, yes, jolly good. Just come along,’ said Twoflower soothingly, pulling gently at his arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pattering of feet from several alleyways and suddenly a dozen star people were advancing on them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan grabbed Rincewind’s limp hand and held it up threateningly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s far enough!’ she screamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right!’ shouted Twoflower. ‘We’ve got a wizard and we’re not afraid to use him!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean it!’ screamed Bethan, spinning Rincewind around by his arm, like a capstan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right! We’re heavily armed! What?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said, where’s the Luggage?’ hissed Bethan behind Rincewind’s back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked around. The Luggage was missing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was having the desired effect of the star people, though. As his hand waved vaguely around they treated it like a rotary scythe and tried to hide behind one another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, where’s it gone?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How should I know?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s <em class="calibre3">your</em> Luggage!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I often don’t know where my Luggage is, that’s what being a tourist is all about,’ said Twoflower. ‘Anyway, it often wanders off by itself. It’s probably best not to ask why.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It began to dawn on the mob that nothing was actually happening, and that Rincewind was in no condition to hurl insults, let alone magical fire. They advanced, watching his hands cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower and Bethan backed away. Twoflower looked around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bethan?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Bethan, not taking her eyes off the advancing figures.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is a dead end.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you sure?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think I know a brick wall when I see one,’ said Twoflower reproachfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s about it, then,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you think perhaps if I explain—?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t think these are the sort of people who listen to explanations,’ Bethan added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower stared at them. He was, as has been mentioned, usually oblivious to personal danger. Against the whole of human experience Twoflower believed that if only people would talk to each other, have a few drinks, exchange pictures of their grandchildren, maybe take in a show or something, then everything could be sorted out. He also believed that people were basically good but sometimes had their bad days. What was coming down the street was having about the same effect on him as a gorilla in a glass factory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the faintest of sounds behind him, not so much a sound in fact as a change in the texture of the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The faces in front of him gaped open, turned, and disappeared rapidly down the alley.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eh?’ said Bethan, still propping up the now unconscious Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower was looking the other way, at a big glass window full of strange wares, and a beaded doorway, and a large sign above it all which now said, after its characters had finished writhing into position:</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Skillet, Wang, Yrxle!yt, Bunglestiff, Cwmlad and Patel’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Estblshd: various’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘PURVEYORS’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The jeweller turned the gold slowly over the tiny anvil, tapping the last strangely-cut diamond into place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘From a troll’s tooth, you say?’ he muttered, squinting losely at his work.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yesh,’ said Cohen, ‘and as I shay, you can have all the resht.’ He was fingering a tray of gold rings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very generous,’ murmured the jeweller, who was dwar-vish and knew a good deal when he saw one. He sighed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not much work lately?’ said Cohen. He looked out through the tiny window and watched a group of empty-eyed people gathered on the other side of the narrow street.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Times are hard, yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who are all theshe guysh with the starsh painted on?’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The dwarf jeweller didn’t look up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Madmen,’ he said. ‘They say I should do no work because the star comes. I tell them stars have never hurt me, I wish I could say the same about people.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen nodded thoughtfully as six men detached themselves from the group and came towards the shop. They were carrying an assortment of weapons, and had a driven, determined look about them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Strange,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I am, as you can see, of the dwarvish persuasion,’ said the jeweller. ‘One of the magical races, it is said. The star people believe that the star will not destroy the Disc if we turn aside from magic. They’re probably going to beat me up a bit. So it goes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He held up his latest work in a pair of tweezers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The strangest thing I have ever made,’ he said, ‘but practical, I can see that. What did you say they were called again?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Din-chewersh,’ said Cohen. He looked at the horseshoe shapes nestling in the wrinkled palm of his hand, then opened his mouth and made a series of painful grunting noises.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The door burst open. The men strode in and took up positions around the walls. They were sweating and uncertain, but their leader pushed Cohen aside disdainfully and picked up the dwarf by his shirt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We tole you yesterday, small stuff,’ he said. ‘You go ut feet down or feet up, we don’t mind. So now we gonna get really —.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen tapped him on the shoulder. The man looked around irritably.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What do you want, grandad?’ he snarled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen paused until he had the man’s full attention, and then he smiled. It was a slow, lazy smile, unveiling about 300 carats of mouth jewellery that seemed to light up the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I will count to three,’ he said, in a friendly tone of voice. ‘One. Two.’ His bony knee came up and buried itself in the man’s groin with a satisfyingly meaty noise, and he half-turned to bring the full force of an elbow into the kidneys as the leader collapsed around his private universe of pain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Three,’ he told the ball of agony on the floor. Cohen had heard of fighting fair, and had long ago decided he wanted no part of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up at the other men, and flashed his incredible srnile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They ought to have rushed him. Instead one of them, secure in the knowledge that he had a broadsword and Cohen didn’t, sidled crabwise towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, no,’ said Cohen, waving his hands. ‘Oh, come on, lad, not like that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man looked sideways at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not like what?’ he asked suspiciously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You never held a sword before?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man half-turned to his colleagues for reassurance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not a lot, no,’ he said. ‘Not often.’ He waved his sword menacingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen shrugged. ‘I may be going to die, but I should hope I could be killed by a man who could hold his sword like a warrior,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man looked at his hands. ‘Looks all right,’ he said, doubtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look, lad, I know a little about these things. I mean, come here a minute and—do you mind?—right, your eft hand goes <em class="calibre3">here,</em> around the pommel, and your right hand goes—that’s right, just <em class="calibre3">here —</em> and the blade goes right into your leg.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As the man screamed and clutched at his foot Cohen kicked his remaining leg away and turned to the room at large.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is getting fiddly,’ he said. Why don’t you rush me?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right,’ said a voice by his waist. The jeweller had produced a very large and dirty axe, guaranteed to add tetanus to all the other terrors of warfare.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The four men gave these odds some consideration, and backed towards the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And wipe those silly stars off,’ said Cohen. ‘You can tell everyone that Cohen the Barbarian will be very angry if he sees stars like that again, right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The door slammed shut. A moment later the axe thumped into it, bounced off, and took a sliver of leather off the toe of Cohen’s sandal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry,’ said the dwarf. ‘It belonged to my grandad. I only use it for splitting firewood.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen felt his jaw experimentally. The dine chewers seemed to be settling in quite well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If I was you, I’d be getting out of here anyway,’ he said. But the dwarf was already scuttling around the room, tipping trays of precious metal and gems into a leather sack. A roll of tools went into one pocket, a packet of finished jewellery went into another, and with a grunt the dwarf stuck his arms through handles on either side of his little forge and heaved it bodily onto his back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right,’ he said. I’m ready.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re coming with me?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘As far as the city gates, if you don’t mind,’ he said. ‘You can’t blame me, can you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No. But leave the axe behind.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They stepped out into the afternoon sun and a deserted street. When Cohen opened his mouth little pinpoints of bright light illuminated all the shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve got some friends around here to pick up,’ he said, nd added, ‘I hope they’re all right. What’s your name?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Lackjaw.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is there anywhere around here where I can—’ Cohen paused lovingly, savouring the words—‘where I can get a steak?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The star people have closed all the inns. They said it’s wrong to be eating and drinking when —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know, I know,’ said Cohen. ‘I think I’m beginning to get the hang of it. Don’t they approve of anything?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lackjaw was lost in thought for a moment. ‘Setting fire to things,’ he said at last. ‘They’re quite good at that. Books and stuff. They have these great big bonfires.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen was shocked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bonfires of books?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Horrible, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right,’ said Cohen. He thought it was appalling. Someone who spent his life living rough under the sky knew the value of a good thick book, which ought to outlast at least a season of cooking fires if you were careful how you tore the pages out. Many a life had been saved on a snowy night by a handful of sodden kindling and a really dry book. If you felt like a smoke and couldn’t find a pipe, a book was your man every time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen realised people wrote things in books. It had always seemed to him to be a frivolous waste of paper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I’m afraid if your friends met them they might be in trouble,’ said Lackjaw sadly as they walked up the street.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They turned the corner and saw the bonfire. It was in the middle of the street. A couple of star people were feeding it with books from a nearby house, which had its door smashed in and had been daubed with stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">News of Cohen hadn’t spread too far yet. The book burners took no notice as he wandered up and leaned against the wall. Curly flakes of burnt paper bounced in the hot air and floated away over the rooftops.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What are you doing?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One of the star people, a woman, pushed her hair out of her eyes with a soot-blackened hand, gazed intently t Cohen’s left ear, and said, ‘Ridding the disc of wickedness.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Two men came out of the building and glared at Cohen, or at least at his ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen reached out and took the heavy book the woman was carrying. Its cover was crusted with strange red and black stones that spelled out what Cohen was sure was a word. He showed it to Lackjaw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Necrotelecomnicon,’ said the dwarf. ‘Wizards use it. It’s how to contact the dead, I think.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s wizards for you,’ said Cohen. He felt a page between finger and thumb; it was thin, and quite soft. The rather unpleasant organic-looking writing didn’t worry him at all. Yes, a book like this could be a real friend to a man —</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes? You want something?’ he said to one of the star men, who had gripped his arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All books of magic must be burned,’ said the man, but a little uncertainly, because something about Cohen’s teeth was giving him a nasty feeling of sanity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It has been revealed to us.’ Now Cohen’s smile was as wide as all outdoors, and rather more dangerous.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think we ought to be getting along,’ said Lackjaw nervously. A party of star people had turned into the street behind them.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I</em> think I would like to kill someone,’ said Cohen, still smiling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The star directs that the Disc must be cleansed,’ said the man, backing away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Stars can’t talk,’ said Cohen, drawing his sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If you kill me a thousand will take my place,’ said the man, who was now backed against the wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said Cohen, in a reasonable tone of voice, ‘but that isn’t the point, is it? The point is, <em class="calibre3">you’ll</em> be dead.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man’s adam’s apple began to bob like a yoyo. He squinted down at Cohen’s sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There is that, yes,’ he conceded. ‘Tell you what—how bout if we put the fire out?’ ‘Good idea,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lackjaw tugged at his belt. The other star people were running towards them. There were a lot of them, many of them were armed, and it began to look as though things would become a little more serious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen waved his sword at them defiantly, and turned and ran. Even Lackjaw had difficulty in keeping up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Funny,’ he gasped, as they plunged down another alley, ‘I thought—for a minute—you’d want to stand—and fight them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Blow that—for a—lark.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As they came out into the light at the other end of the alley Cohen flung himself against the wall, drew his sword, stood with his head on one side as he judged the approaching footsteps, and then brought the blade around in a dead flat sweep at stomach height. There was an unpleasant noise and several screams, but by then Cohen was well away up the street, moving in the unusual shambling run that spared his bunions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With Lackjaw pounding along grimly beside him he turned off into an inn painted with red stars, jumped onto a table with only a faint whimper of pain, ran along it—while, with almost perfect choreography, Lackjaw ran straight underneath without ducking—jumped down at the other end, kicked his way through the kitchens, and came out into another alley.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They scurried around a few more turnings and piled into a doorway. Cohen clung to the wall and wheezed until the little blue and purple lights went away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well,’ he panted, ‘what did you get?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, the cruet,’ said Lackjaw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I had to go <em class="calibre3">under</em> the table, didn’t I? You didn’t do so well yourself.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen looked disdainfully at the small melon he had managed to skewer in his flight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This must be pretty tough here,’ he said, biting through 159 the rind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Want some salt on it?’ said the dwarf.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen said nothing. He just stood holding the melon, with his mouth open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lackjaw looked around. The cul de sac they were in was empty, except for an old box someone had left against a wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen was staring at it. He handed the melon to the dwarf without looking at him and walked out into the sunlight. Lackjaw watched him creep stealthily around the box, or as stealthily as is possible with joints that creaked like a ship under full sail, and prod it once or twice with his sword, but very gingerly, as if he half-expected it to explode.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s just a box,’ the dwarf called out. ‘What’s so special about a box?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen said nothing. He squatted down painfully and peered closely at the lock on the lid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s in it?’ said Lackjaw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You wouldn’t want to know,’ said Cohen. ‘Help me up, will you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but this box —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This box,’ said Cohen, ‘this box is—’he waved his arms vaguely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oblong?’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Eldritch,’</em> said Cohen mysteriously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eldritch?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yup.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said the dwarf. They stood looking at the box for a moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Cohen?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What does eldritch mean?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, eldritch is—’ Cohen paused and looked down irritably. ‘Give it a kick and you’ll see.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lockjaw’s steel-capped dwarfboot whammed into the side of the box. Cohen flinched. Nothing else happened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see,’ said the dwarf. ‘Eldritch means wooden?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Cohen. ‘It—it oughtn’t to have done that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see,’ said Lackjaw, who didn’t, and was beginning to wish Cohen hadn’t gone out into all this hot sunlight. ‘It ought to have run away, you think?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Or bitten your leg off.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said the dwarf. He took Cohen gently by the arm. ‘It’s nice and shady over here,’ he said. ‘Why don’t you just have a little —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen shook him off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s watching that wall,’ he said. ‘Look, that’s why it’s not taking any notice of us. It’s staring at the wall.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, that’s right,’ said Lackjaw soothingly. ‘Of course it’s watching that wall with its little eyes —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t be an idiot, it hasn’t got any eyes,’ snapped Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Sorry, sorry,’ said Lackjaw hurriedly. ‘It’s watching the wall without eyes, sorry.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s worried about something,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, it would be, wouldn’t it,’ said Lackjaw. ‘I expect it just wants us to go off somewhere and leave it alone.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s very puzzled,’ Cohen added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, it certainly looks puzzled,’ said the dwarf. Cohen glared at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How can <em class="calibre3">you</em> tell?’ he snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It struck Lackjaw that the roles were unfairly reversing. He looked from Cohen to the box, his mouth opening and shutting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How can <em class="calibre3">you</em> tell?’ he said. But Cohen wasn’t listening anyway. He sat down in front of the box, assuming that the bit with the keyhole was the front, and watched it intently. Lackjaw backed away. Funny, said his mind, but the damn thing <em class="calibre3">is</em> looking at me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ said Cohen, ‘I know you and me don’t see eye to eye, but we’re all trying to find someone we care for, okay?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m—’ said Lackjaw, and realised that Cohen was talking to the box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So tell me where they’ve gone.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As Lackjaw looked on in horror the Luggage extended 161 its little legs, braced itself, and ran full tilt at the nearest wall. Clay bricks and dusty mortar exploded around it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen peered through the hole. There was a small grubby storeroom on the other side. The Luggage stood in the middle of the floor, radiating extreme bafflement.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Shop!’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyone here?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Urrgh,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think we ought to sit him down somewhere and get him a glass of water,’ said Twoflower. ‘If there’s one here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s everything else,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room was full of shelves, and the shelves were full of everything. Things that couldn’t be accommodated on them hung in bunches from the dark and shadowy ceiling; boxes and sacks of everything spilled onto the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was no sound from outside. Bethan looked around and found out why.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve never seen so much stuff,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s one thing it’s out of stock of,’ said Bethan, firmly..</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How can you tell?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You just have to look. It’s fresh out of exits.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower turned around. Where the door and window had been there were shelves stacked with boxes; they looked as, though they had been there for a long time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower sat Rincewind down on a rickety chair by the counter and poked doubtfully at the shelves. There were boxes of nails, and hairbrushes. There were bars of soap, faded with age. There was a stack of jars containing deliquescent bath salts, to which someone had fixed a rather sad and jaunty little notice announcing, in the face of all the evidence, that one would make an Ideal Gift. There was also quite a lot of dust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan peered at the shelves on the other wall, and laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would you look at this!’ she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked. She was holding a—well, it was a little mountain chalet, but with seashells stuck all over it, and then the perpetrator had written ‘A Special Souvenir’ in pokerwork on the roof (which, of course, opened so that cigarettes could be kept in it, and played a tinny little tune).</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you ever seen anything like it?’ she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower shook his head. His mouth dropped open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you all right?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a whirring noise overhead. They looked up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A big black globe had lowered itself from the darkness of the ceiling. Little red lights flashed on and off on it, and as they stared it spun around and looked at them with a big glass eye. It was menacing, that eye. It seemed to suggest very emphatically that it was watching something distasteful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hallo?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A head appeared over the edge of the counter. It looked angry.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I hope you were intending to pay for that,’ it said nastily. Its expression suggested that it expected Rincewind to say yes, and that it wouldn’t believe him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This?’ said Bethan. ‘I wouldn’t buy this if you threw in a hatful of rubies and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I’ll</em> buy it. How much?’ said Twoflower urgently, reaching into his pockets. His face fell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Actually, I haven’t got any money,’ he said. ‘It’s in my Luggage, but I —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a snort. The head disappeared from behind the counter, and reappeared from behind a display of toothbrushes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It belonged to a very small man almost hidden behind a green apron. He seemed very upset.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No money?’ he said. ‘You come into my shop —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We didn’t mean to,’ said Twoflower quickly. ‘We didn’t notice it was there.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It wasn’t,’ said Bethan firmly. ‘It’s magical, isn’t it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The small shopkeeper hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ he reluctantly agreed. ‘A bit.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A bit?’ said Bethan. ‘A <em class="calibre3">bit</em> magical?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Quite a bit, then,’ he conceded, backing away, and, ‘All right,’ he agreed, as Bethan continued to glare at him. ‘It’s magical. I can’t help it. The bloody door hasn’t been and gone again, has it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, and we’re not happy about that thing in the ceiling.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up, and frowned. Then he disappeared through a little beaded doorway half-hidden among the merchandise. There was a lot of clanking and whirring, and the black globe disappeared into the shadows. It was replaced by, in succession, a bunch of herbs, a mobile advertising something Twoflower had never heard of but which was apparently a bedtime drink, a suit of armour and a stuffed crocodile with a lifelike expression of extreme pain and surprise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper reappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Better?’ he demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s an improvement,’ said Twoflower, doubtfully. ‘I liked the herbs best.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">At this point Rincewind groaned. He was about to wake up.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">There have been three general theories put forward to explain the phenomenon of the wandering shops or, as they are generically known, <em class="calibre3">tabernae vagantes.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">The first postulates that many thousands of years ago there evolved somewhere in the multiverse a race whose single talent was to buy cheap and sell dear. Soon they controlled a vast galactic empire or, as they put it, Emporium, and the more advanced members of the species found a way to equip their very shops with unique propulsion units that could break the dark walls of space itself and open up vast new markets. And long after the orlds of the Emporium perished in the heat death of their particular universe, after one last defiant fire sale, the wandering starshops still ply their trade, eating their way through the pages of spacetime like a worm through a three-volume novel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The second is that they are the creation of a sympathetic Fate, charged with the role of supplying exactly the right thing at the right time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The third is that they are simply a very clever way of getting around the various Sunday Closing acts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All these theories, diverse as they are, have two things in common. They explain the observed facts, and they are completely and utterly wrong.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened his eyes and lay for a moment looking up at the stuffed reptile. It was not the best thing to see when awakening from troubled dreams...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Magic! So that’s what it felt like! No wonder wizards didn’t have much truck with sex!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind knew what orgasms were, of course, he’d had a few in his time, sometimes even in company, but nothing in his experience even approximated to that tight, hot moment when every nerve in his body streamed with blue-white fire and raw magic had blazed forth from his fingers. It filled you and lifted you and you surfed down the rising, curling wave of elemental force. No wonder wizards fought for power...</div>
<div class="paragraph">And so on. The Spell in his head had been doing it, though, not Rincewind. He was really beginning to hate that Spell. He was sure that if it hadn’t frightened away all the other spells he’d tried to learn he could have been a decent wizard in his own right. ‘</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somewhere in Rincewind’s battered soul the worm of rebellion flashed a fang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right, he thought. You’re going back into the Octavo, first chance I get.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where the hell is this?’ he said, grabbing his head to stop it exploding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A shop,’ said Twoflower mournfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I hope it sells knives because I think I’d like to cut my head off,’ said Rincewind. Something about the expression of the two opposite him sobered him up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That was a joke,’ he said. ‘Mainly a joke, anyway. Why are we in this shop?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We can’t get out,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The door’s disappeared,’ added Twoflower helpfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind stood up, a little shakily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ he said. ‘One of <em class="calibre3">those</em> shops?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ said the shopkeeper testily. ‘It’s magical, yes, it moves around, yes, no, I’m not telling you why —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can I have a drink of water, please?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper looked affronted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘First no money, then they want a glass of water,’ he snapped. ‘That’s just about —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan snorted and strode across to the little man, who tried to back away. He was too late.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She picked him up by his apron straps and glared at him eye to eye. Torn though her dress was, disarrayed though her hair was, she became for a moment the symbol of every woman who has caught a man with his thumb on the scales of life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Time is money,’ she hissed. ‘I’ll give you thirty seconds to get him a glass of water. I think that’s a bargain, don’t you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I say,’ Twoflower whispered. ‘She’s a real terror when she’s roused, isn’t she?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said Rincewind’, without enthusiasm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right, all right,’ said the shopkeeper, visibly cowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And then you can let us out,’ Bethan added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s fine by me, I wasn’t open for business anyway, I just stopped for a few seconds to get my bearings and you barged in!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He grumbled off through the bead curtains and returned ith a cup of water.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I washed it out special,’ he said, avoiding Bethan’s gaze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at the liquid in the cup. It had probably been clean before it was poured in, now drinking it would be genocide for thousands of innocent germs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He put it down carefully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now I’m going to have a good wash!’ stated Bethan, and stalked off through the curtain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper waved a hand vaguely and looked appealingly at Rincewind and Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘She’s not bad,’ said Twoflower. ‘She’s going to marry a friend of ours.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Does he know?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Things not so good in the starshop business?’ said Rincewind, as sympathetically as he could manage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little man shuddered. ‘You wouldn’t believe it,’ he said. ‘I mean, you learn not to expect much, you make a sale here and there, it’s a living, you know what I mean? But these people you’ve got these days, the ones with these star things painted on their faces, well, I hardly have time to open the store and they’re threatening to burn it down. Too magical, they say. So I say, of course magical, what else?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are there a lot of them about, then?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All over the Disc, friend. Don’t ask me why.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They believe a star is going to crash into the Disc,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Lots of people think so.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That’s a shame. I’ve done good business here. Too magical, they say! What’s wrong with magic, that’s what I’d like to know?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What will you do?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, go to some other universe, there’s plenty around,’ said the shopkeeper airily. ‘Thanks for telling me about the star, though. Can I drop you off somewhere?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Spell gave Rincewind’s mind a kick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘‘Er, no,’ he said, ‘I think perhaps we’d better stay. To ee it through, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re not worried about this star thing, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The star is life, not death,’ said Riricewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How’s that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How’s what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You did it again!’ said Twoflower, pointing an accusing finger. ‘You say things and then don’t know you’ve said them!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I just said we’d better stay,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You said the star was life, not death,’ said Twoflower. ‘Your voice went all crackly and far away. Didn’t it?’ He turned to the shopkeeper for confirmation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s true,’ said the little man. ‘I thought his eyes crossed a bit, too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s the Spell, then,’ said Rincewind. ‘It’s trying to take me over. It knows what’s going to happen, and I think it wants to go to Ankh-Morpork. I want to go too,’ he added defiantly. ‘Can you get us there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is that the big city on the Ankh? Sprawling place, smells of cesspits?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It has an ancient and honourable history,’ said Rincewind, his voice stiff with injured civic pride.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s not how you described it to <em class="calibre3">me,’</em> said Twoflower. ‘You told me it was the only city that actually started out decadent.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked embarrassed. Yes, but, well, it’s my home, don’t you see?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said the shopkeeper, ‘not really. I always say home is where you hang your hat.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, no,’ said Twoflower, always anxious to enlighten. ‘Where you hang your hat is a hatstand. A home is —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll just go and see about setting you on your way,’ said the shopkeeper hurriedly, as Bethan came in. He scooted past her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower followed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the other side of the curtain was a room with a small bed, a rather grubby stove, and a three-legged table. Then the shopkeeper did something to the table, here was a noise like a cork coming reluctantly out of a bottle, and the room contained a wall-to-wall universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t be frightened,’ said the shopkeeper, as stars streamed past.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m not frightened,’ said Twoflower, his eyes sparkling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said the shopkeeper, slightly annoyed. ‘Anyway, it’s just imagery generated by the shop, it’s not real.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And you can go anywhere?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh no,’ said the shopkeeper, deeply shocked. ‘There’s all kinds of fail-safes built in, after all, there’d be no point in going somewhere with insufficient per capita disposable income. And there’s got to be a suitable wall, of course. Ah, here we are, this is your universe. Very bijou, I always think. A sort of universette...’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Here is the blackness of space, the myriad stars gleaming like diamond dust or, as some people would say, like great balls of exploding hydrogen a very long way off. But then, some people would say anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A shadow starts to blot out the distant glitter, and it is blacker than space itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">From here it also looks a great deal bigger, because space is not really big, it is simply somewhere to be big <em class="calibre3">in.</em> Planets are big, but planets are meant to be big and there is nothing clever about being the right size.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But this shape blotting out the sky like the footfall of God isn’t a planet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It is a turtle, ten thousand miles long from its crater-pocked head to its armoured tail.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And Great A’Tuin is <em class="calibre3">huge.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">Great flippers rise and fall ponderously, warping space into strange shapes. The Discworld slides across the sky like a royal barge. But even Great A’Tuin is struggling now as it leaves the free depths of space and must fight the tormenting pressures of the solar shallows. Magic is weaker here, on the littoral of light. Many more days of his and the Discworld will be stripped away by the pressures of reality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin knows this, but Great A’Tuin can recall doing all this before, many thousands of years ago.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The astrochelonian’s eyes, glowing red in the light of the dwarf star, are not focussed on it but at a little patch of space nearby...</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but where are we?’ said Twoflower. The shopkeeper, hunched over his table, just shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t think we’re <em class="calibre3">anywhere,’</em> he said. ‘We’re in a cotangent incongruity, I believe. I could be wrong. The shop generally knows what it’s doing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You mean you don’t?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I pick a bit up, here and there.’ The shopkeeper blew his nose. ‘Sometimes I land on a world where they understand these things.’ He turned a pair of small, sad eyes on Twoflower. ‘You’ve got a kind face, sir. I don’t mind telling you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Telling me what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s no life, you know, minding the Shop. Never settling down, always on the move, never closing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Why don’t you stop, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, that’s it, you see, sir—I can’t. I’m under a curse, I am. A terrible thing.’ He blew his nose again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Cursed to run a shop?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Forever, sir, forever. And never closing! For hundreds of years! There was this sorcerer, you see. I did a terrible thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘In a shop?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes. I can’t remember what it was he wanted, but when he asked for it I—I gave one of those sucking-in noises, you know, like whistling only backwards?’ He demonstrated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked sombre, but he was at heart a kind man and always ready to forgive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see,’ he said slowly. ‘Even so —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s not all!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I told him there was no demand for it!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘After making the sucking noise?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. I probably grinned, too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, dear. You didn’t call him squire, did you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I—I may have done.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s more.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Surely not?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, I said I could order it and he could come back next day.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That doesn’t sound too bad,’ said Twoflower, who alone of all the people in the multiverse allowed shops to order things for him and didn’t object at all to paying quite large sums of money to reimburse the shopkeeper for the inconvenience of having a bit of stock in his store often for several hours.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It was early closing day,’ said the shopkeeper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, and I heard him rattling the doorhandle, I had this sign on the door, you know, it said something like "Closed even for the sale of Necromancer cigarettes," anyway, I heard him banging and I laughed.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You laughed?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Like this. Hnufhnufhnufblort.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Probably not a wise thing to do,’ said Twoflower, shaking his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know, I know. My father always said, he said, Do not peddle in the affairs of wizards... Anyway, I heard him shouting something about never closing <em class="calibre3">again,</em> and a lot of words I couldn’t understand, and then the shop—the shop—the shop came <em class="calibre3">alive.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And you’ve wandered like this ever since?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. I suppose one day I might find the sorcerer and perhaps the thing he wanted will be in stock. Until then I must go from place to place —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That was a terrible thing to do,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper wiped his nose on his apron. ‘Thank you,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Even so, he shouldn’t have cursed you quite so badly,’ Twoflower added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh. Yes, well.’ The shopkeeper straightened his apron and made a brave little attempt to pull himself together. ‘Anyway, this isn’t getting you to Ankh-Morpork, is it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Funny thing is,’ said Twoflower, ‘that I bought my Luggage in a shop like this, once. Another shop, I mean.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes, there’s several of us,’ said the shopkeeper, turning back to the table, ‘that sorcerer was a very impatient man, I understand.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Endlessly roaming through the universe,’ mused Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s right. Mind you, there is a saving on the rates.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rates?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, they’re—’ the shopkeeper paused, and wrinkled his forehead. ‘I can’t quite remember, it was such a long time ago. Rates, rates —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Very large mice?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s probably it.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">‘Hold on—it’s thinking about something,’ said Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lackjaw looked up wearily. It had been quite nice, sitting here in the shade. He had just worked out that in trying to escape from a city of crazed madmen he had appeared to have allowed one mad man to give him his full attention. He wondered whether he would live to regret this.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He earnestly hoped so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes, it’s definitely thinking,’ he said bitterly. ‘Anyone can see that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think it’s found them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, good.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hold onto it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are you mad?’ said Lackjaw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know this thing, trust me. Anyway, would you rather be left with all these star people? They might be interested in having a talk with you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen sidled over to the Luggage, and then flung himself astride it. It took no notice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hurry up,’ he said. ‘I think it’s going to go.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lackjaw shrugged, and climbed on gingerly behind Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh?’ he said, ‘and how does it g —’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pearl of cities!</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is not a completely accurate description, of course—it was not round and shiny—but even its worst enemies would agree that if you had to liken Ankh-Morpork to anything, then it might as well be a piece of rubbish covered with the diseased secretions of a dying mollusc.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There have been bigger cities. There have been richer cities. There have certainly been prettier cities. But no city in the multiverse could rival Ankh-Morpork for its smell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Ancient Ones, who know everything about all the universes and have smelt the smells of Calcutta and!Xrc —! and dauntocum Marsport, have agreed that even these fine examples of nasal poetry are mere limericks when set against the glory of the Ankh-Morpork smell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You can talk about ramps. You can talk about garlic. You can talk about France. Go on. But if you haven’t smelled Ankh-Morpork on a hot day you haven’t smelled anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The citizens are proud of it. They carry chairs outside to enjoy it on a really good day. They puff out their cheeks and slap their chests and comment cheerfully on its little distinctive nuances. They have even put up a statue to it, to commemorate the time when the troops of a rival state tried to invade by stealth one dark night and managed to get to the top of the walls before, to their horror, their nose plugs gave out. Rich merchants who ave spent many years abroad sent back home for specially-stoppered and sealed bottles of the stuff, which brings tears to their eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It has that kind of effect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There is only really one way to describe the effect the smell of Ankh-Morpork has on the visiting nose, and that is by analogy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Take a tartan. Sprinkle it with confetti. Light it with strobe lights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now take a chameleon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Put the chameleon on the tartan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Watch it closely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">See?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which explains why, when the shop finally materialised in Ankh-Morpork, Rincewind sat bolt upright and said ‘We’re here,’ Bethan went pale and Twoflower, who had no sense of smell, said, ‘Really? How can you tell?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had been a long afternoon. They had broken into realspace in a number of walls in a variety of cities because, according to the shopkeeper, the Disc’s magical field was playing up and upsetting everything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All the cities were empty of most of their citizens and belonged to roaming gangs of crazed left-ear people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where do they all come from?’ said Twoflower, as they fled yet another mob.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Inside every sane person there’s a madman struggling to get out,’ said the shopkeeper. ‘That’s what I’ve always thought. No one goes mad quicker than a totally sane person.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That doesn’t make sense,’ said Bethan, ‘or if it makes sense, I don’t like it.’.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The star was bigger than the sun. There would be no night tonight. On the opposite horizon the Disc’s own sunlet was doing its best to set normally, but the general effect of all that red light was to make the city, never particularly beautiful, look like something painted by a fanatical artist after a bad time on the shoe polish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But it was <em class="calibre3">home.</em> Rincewind peered up and down the mpty street and felt almost happy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the back of his mind the Spell was kicking up a ruckus, but he ignored it. Maybe it was true that magic was getting weaker as the star got nearer, or perhaps he’d had the Spell in his head for so long he had built up some kind of psychic immunity, but he found he <em class="calibre3">could</em> resist it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re in the docks,’ he declared. ‘Just smell that sea air!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ said Bethan, leaning against the wall, ‘yes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s ozone, that is,’ said Rincewind. That’s air with character, is that.’ He breathed deeply.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower turned to the shopkeeper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I hope you find your sorcerer,’ he said. ‘Sorry we didn’t buy anything, but all my money’s in my Luggage, you see.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper pushed something into his hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘A little gift,’ he said. ‘You’ll need it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He darted back into his shop, the bell jangled, the sign saying Call Again Tomorrow For Spoonfetcher’s Leeches, the Little Suckers banged forlornly against the door, and the shop faded into the brickwork as though it had never been. Twoflower reached out gingerly and touched the wall, not quite believing it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s in the bag?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a thick brown paper bag, with string handles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If it sprouts legs I don’t want to know about it,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower peered inside, and pulled out the contents.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Is that all?’ said Rincewind. ‘A little house with shells on?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s very useful,’ said Twoflower defensively. ‘You can keep cigarettes in it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And they’re what you really need, are they?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’d plump for a bottle of really strong sun-tan oil,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Come on,’ said Rincewind, and set off down the street. The others followed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It occurred to Twoflower that some words of comfort were called for, a little tactful small talk to take Bethan out f herself, as he would put it, and generally cheer her up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t worry,’ he said. There’s just a chance that Cohen might still be alive.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, I expect he’s alive all right,’ she said, stamping along the cobbles as if she nursed a personal grievance against each one of them. ‘You don’t live to be eighty-seven in his job if you go around dying all the time. But he’s not here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nor is my Luggage,’ said Twoflower. ‘Of course, that’s not the same thing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you think the star is going to hit the Disc?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Twoflower confidently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why not?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Because Rincewind doesn’t think so.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked at him in amazement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You see,’ the tourist went on, ‘you know that thing you do with seaweed?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan, brought up on the Vortex Plains, had only heard of the sea in stories, and had decided she didn’t like it. She looked blank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Eat it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No, what you do is, you hang it up outside your door, and it tells you if it’s going to rain.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another thing Bethan had learned was that there was no real point in trying to understand anything Twoflower said, and that all anyone could do was run alongside the conversation and hope to jump on as it turned a corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see,’ she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind is like that, you see.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Like seaweed.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. If there was anything at all to be frightened about, he’d be frightened. But he’s not. The star is just about the only thing I’ve ever seen him not frightened of. If he’s not worried, then take it from me, there’s nothing to worry about.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not going to rain?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, no. Metaphorically speaking.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’ Bethan decided not to ask what ‘metaphorically’ meant, in case it was something to do with seaweed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind turned around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Come on,’ he said. ‘Not far now.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where to?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘ Unseen University, of course.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is that wise?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Probably not, but I’m still going—’ Rincewind paused, his face a mask of pain. He put his hand to his ears and groaned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Spell giving you trouble?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yargh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Try humming.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind grimaced. ‘I’m going to get rid of this thing,’ he said thickly. ‘It’s going back into the book where it belongs. I want my head back!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But then—’ Twoflower began, and stopped. They could all hear it—a distant chanting and the stamping of many feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you think it’s star people?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was. The lead marchers came around a corner a hundred yards away, behind a ragged white banner with an eight-pointed star on it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not just star people,’ said Twoflower. ‘All kinds of people!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd swept them up in its passage. One moment they were standing in the deserted street, the next they were perforce moving with a tide of humanity that bore them onwards through the city.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Torchlight flickered easily on the damp tunnels far under the University as the heads of the eight Orders of wizardry filed onwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘At least it’s cool down here,’ said one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We shouldn’t <em class="calibre3">be</em> down here.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon, who was leading the party, said nothing. But he was thinking very hard. He was thinking about the ottle of oil in his belt, and the eight keys the wizards carried—eight keys that would fit the eight locks that chained the Octavo to its lectern. He was thinking that old wizards who sense that magic is draining away are preoccupied with their own problems and are perhaps less alert than they should be. He was thinking that within a few minutes the Octavo, the greatest concentration of magic on the Disc, would be under his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Despite the coolness of the tunnel he began to sweat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They came to a lead-lined door set in the sheer stone. Trymon took a heavy key—a good, honest iron key, not like the twisted and disconcerting keys that would unlock the Octavo—gave the lock a squirt of oil, inserted the key, turned it. The lock squeaked open protestingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are we of one resolve?’ said Trymon. There was a series of vaguely affirmative grunts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pushed at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A warm gale of thick and somehow oily air rolled over them. The air was filled with a high-pitched and unpleasant chittering. Tiny sparks of octarine fire flared off every nose, fingernail and beard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards, their heads bowed against the storm of randomised magic that blew out of the room, pushed forward. Half-formed shapes giggled and fluttered around them as the nightmare inhabitants of the Dungeon Dimensions constantly probed (with things that passed for fingers only because they were at the ends of their arms) for an unguarded entry into the circle of firelight that passed for the universe of reason and order.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Even at this bad time for all things magical, even in a room designed to damp down all magical vibrations, the Octavo was still crackling with power.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was no real need for the torches. The Octavo filled the room with a dull, sullen light, which wasn’t strictly light at all but the opposite of light; darkness isn’t the opposite of light, it is simply its absence, and what was radiating from the book was the light that lies on the far side of darkness, the light fantastic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a rather disappointing purple colour.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As has been noted before, the Octavo was chained to a lectern carved into the shape of something that looked vaguely avian, slightly reptilian and horribly alive. Two glittering eyes regarded the wizards with hooded hatred.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I saw it move,’ said one of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’re safe so long as we don’t touch the book,’ said Trymon. He pulled a scroll out of his belt and unrolled it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bring that torch here,’ he said, <em class="calibre3">‘and put that cigarette out!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">He waited for the explosion of infuriated pride. But none came. Instead, the offending mage removed the dogend from his lips with trembling fingers and ground it into the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon exulted. So, he thought, they do what I say. Just for now, maybe—but just for now is enough.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He peered at the crabby writing of a wizard long dead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right,’ he said, let’s see: "To Appease Yt, The Thynge That Ys The Guardian..." ‘</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The crowd surged over one of the bridges that linked Morpork with Ankh. Below it the river, turgid at the best of times, was a mere trickle which steamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bridge shook under their feet rather more than it should. Strange ripples ran across the muddy remains of the river. A few tiles slid off the roof of a nearby house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What was that?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan looked behind them, and screamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The star was rising. As the Disc’s own sun scurried for safety below the horizon the great bloated ball of the star climbed slowly into the sky until the whole of it was several degrees above the edge of the world.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They pulled Rincewind into the safety of a doorway. The crowd hardly noticed them, but ran on, terrified as lemmings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The star’s got spots on,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Rincewind. ‘They’re... things. Things going around the star. Like the sun goes around the Disc. But they’re close in, because, because...’ he paused. ‘I nearly know!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Know what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ve got to get rid of this Spell!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Which way is the University?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This way!’ said Rincewind, pointing along the street.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It must be very popular. That’s where everyone’s going.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I wonder why?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Somehow,’ said Rincewind, ‘I don’t think it’s to enroll for evening classes.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">In fact Unseen University was under siege, or at least those parts of it that extruded into the usual, everyday dimensions were under siege. The crowds outside its gates were, generally, making one of two demands. They were demanding that either a) the wizards should stop messing about and get rid of the star or, and this was the demand favoured by the star people, that b) they should cease all magic and commit suicide in good order, thus ridding the Disc of the curse of magic and warding off the terrible threat in the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards on the other side of the walls had no idea how to do a) and no intention of doing b) and many had in fact plumped for c), which largely consisted of nipping out of hidden side doors and having it away on their toes as far as possible, if not faster.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What reliable magic still remained in the University was being channelled into keeping the great gates secure. The wizards were learning that while it was all very fine and impressive to have a set of gates that were locked by magic, it ought to have occurred to the builders to include some sort of emergency back-up device such as, for example, a pair of ordinary, unimpressive stout iron bolts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the square outside the gates several large bonfires had been lit, for effect as much as anything else, because the heat from the star was scorching.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But you can still see the stars,’ said Twoflower, ‘the ther stars, I mean. The little ones. In a black sky.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind ignored him. He was looking at the gates. A group of star people and citizens were trying to batter them down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s hopeless,’ said Bethan. ‘We’ll never get in. Where are you going?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘For a walk,’ said Rincewind. He was setting off determinedly down a side street.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were one or two freelance rioters here, mostly engaged in wrecking shops. Rincewind took no notice, but followed the wall until it ran parallel to a dark alley that had the usual unfortunate smell of all alleys, everywhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he started looking very closely at the stonework. The wall here was twenty feet high, and topped with cruel metal spikes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I need a knife,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re going to cut your way through?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just find me a knife,’ said Rincewind. He started to tap stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower and Bethan looked at each other, and shrugged. A few minutes later they returned with a selection of knives, and Twoflower had even managed to find a sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We just helped ourselves,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But we left some money,’ said Twoflower. ‘I mean, we would have left some money, if we’d had any —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘So he insisted on writing a note,’ said Bethan wearily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower drew himself up to his full height, which was hardly worth it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I see no reason—’ he began, stiffly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, yes,’ said Bethan, sitting down glumly. ‘I know you don’t. Rincewind, all the shops have been smashed open, there was a whole bunch of people across the street helping themselves to musical instruments, can you believe that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah,’ said Rincewind, picking up a knife and testing its blade thoughtfully. ‘Luters, I expect.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He thrust the blade into the wall, twisted it, and stepped ack as a heavy stone fell out. He looked up, counting under his breath, and levered another stone from its socket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How did you do that?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just give me a leg up, will you?’ said Rincewind. A moment later, his feet wedged into the holes he had created, he was making further steps halfway up the wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s been like this for centuries,’ his voice floated down. ‘Some of the stones haven’t got any mOrtar. Secret entrance, see? Watch out below.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another stone cracked into the cobbles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Students made it long ago,’ said Rincewind. ‘Handy way in and out after lights out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah,’ said Twoflower, ‘I <em class="calibre3">understand.</em> Over the wall and out to brightly-lit tavernas to drink and sing and recite poetry, yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nearly right except for the singing and the poetry, yes,’ said Rincewind. ‘A couple of these spikes should be loose—’ There was a clang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s not much of a drop this side,’ came his voice after a few seconds. ‘Come on, then. If you’re coming.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">And so it was that Rincewind, Twoflower and Bethan entered Unseen University.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Elsewhere on the campus—</div>
<div class="paragraph">The eight wizards inserted their keys and, with many a worried glance at one another, turned them. There was a faint little snicking sound as the lock slid open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Octavo was unchained. A faint octarine light played across its bindings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon reached out and picked it up, and none of the others objected. His arm tingled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned towards the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now to the Great Hall, brothers,’ he said, ‘if I may lead the way —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">And there were no objections.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reached the door with the book tucked under his rm. It felt hot, and somehow prickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At every step he expected a cry, a protest, and none came. He had to use every ounce of control to stop himself from laughing. It was easier than he could have imagined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others were halfway across the claustrophobic dungeon by the time he was through the door, and perhaps they had noticed something in the set of his shoulders, but it was too late because he had crossed the threshold, gripped the handle, slammed the door, turned the key, smiled the smile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He walked easily back along the corridor, ignoring the enraged screams of the wizards who had just discovered how impossible it is to pass spells in a room built to be impervious to magic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Octavo <em class="calibre3">squirmed,</em> but Trymon held it tightly. Now he ran, putting out of his mind the horrible sensations under his arm as the book shape-changed into things hairy, skeletal and spiky. His hand went numb. The faint chittering noises he had been hearing grew in volume, and there were other sounds behind them—leering sounds, beckoning sounds, sounds made by the voices of unimaginable horrors that Trymon found it all too easy to imagine. As he ran across the Great Hall and up the main staircase the shadows began to move and reform and close in around him, and he also became aware that something was following, something with skittery legs moving obscenely fast. Ice formed on the walls. Doorways lunged at him as he barrelled past. Underfoot the stairs began to feel just like a tongue...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not for nothing had Trymon spent long hours in the University’s curious equivalent of a gymnasium, building up mental muscle. Don’t trust the senses, he knew, because they can be deceived. The stairs are there, somewhere—<em class="calibre3">will</em> them to be there, summon them into being as you climb and, boy, you better get good at it. Because this isn’t all imagination.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin slowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With flippers the size of continents the skyturtle fought the pull of the star, and waited. There would not be long to wait...</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Rincewind sidled into the Great Hall. There were a few torches burning, and it looked as though it had been set up for some sort of magical work. But the ceremonial candlesticks had been overturned, the complex octograms chalked on the floor were scuffed as if something had danced on them, and the air was full of a smell unpleasant even by Ankh-Morpork’s broad standards. There was a hint of sulphur to it, but that underlay something worse. It smelt like the bottom of a pond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a distant crash, and a lot of shouting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Looks like the gates have gone down,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let’s get out of here,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The cellars are this way,’ said Rincewind, and set off through an arch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Down <em class="calibre3">there!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Would you rather stay here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took a torch from its bracket on the wall and started down the steps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a few flights the walls stopped being panelled and were bare stone. Here and there heavy doors had been propped open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I heard something,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind listened. There did seem to be a noise coming from the depths below. It didn’t sound frightening. It sounded like a lot of people hammering on a door and shouting ‘Oi!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s not those Things from the Dungeon Dimensions you were telling us about, is it?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They don’t swear like that,’ said Rincewind. ‘Come on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They hurried along the dripping passages, following the screamed curses and deep hacking coughs that were somehow reassuring; anything that wheezed like that, the listeners decided, couldn’t possibly represent a danger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At last they came to a door set in an alcove. It looked strong enough to hold back the sea. There was a tiny grille.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hey!’ shouted Rincewind. It wasn’t very useful, but he couldn’t think of anything better.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a sudden silence. Then a voice from the other side of the door said, very slowly, Who is out there?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind recognised that voice. It had jerked him from daydreams into terror on many a hot classroom afternoon, years before. It was Lemuel Panter, who had once made it his personal business to hammer the rudiments of scrying and summoning into young Rincewind’s head. He remembered the eyes like gimlets in a piggy face and the voice saying ‘And now Mister Rincewind will come out here and draw the relevant symbol on the board’ and the million mile walk past the waiting class as he tried desperately to remember what the voice had been droning on about five minutes before. Even now his throat was going dry with terror and randomised guilt. The Dungeon Dimensions just weren’t in it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Please sir, it’s me, sir, Rincewind, sir,’he squeaked. He saw Twoflower and Bethan staring at him, and coughed, ‘Yes,’ he added, in as deep a voice as he could manage. That’s who it is. Rincewind. Right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a susurration of whispers on the other side of the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Rincewind?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Prince who?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘I remember a boy who wasn’t any—’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘The spell, remember?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Rincewind?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then the voice said, ‘I suppose the key isn’t in the lock, is it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘What did he say?’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘He said no.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Typical of the boy.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um, who is in there?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Masters of Wizardry,’ said the voice, haughtily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was another pause, and then a conference of embarrassed whispers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We, uh, got locked in,’ said the voice, reluctantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, with the Octavo?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Whisper, whisper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Octavo, in fact, isn’t in here, in fact,’ said the voice slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh. But you are?’ said Rincewind, as politely as possible while grinning like a necrophiliac in a morgue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That would appear to be the case.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is there anything we can get you?’ said Twoflower anxiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You could try getting us out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Could we pick the lock?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No use,’ said Rincewind. ‘Totally thief-proof.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I expect Cohen would have been able to,’ said Bethan loyally. ‘Wherever he’s got to.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Luggage would soon smash it down,’ agreed Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, that’s it then,’ said Bethan. ‘Let’s get out into the fresh air. Fresher air, anyway.’ She turned to walk away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hang on, hang on,’ said Rincewind. That’s just typical, isn’t it? Old Rincewind won’t have any ideas, will he? Oh, no, he’s just a makeweight, he is. Kick him as you pass. Don’t rely on him, he’s —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ said Bethan. ‘Let’s hear it, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘– a nonentity, a failure, just a—what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How are you going to get the door open?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at her with his mouth open. Then he looked at the door. It really was very solid, and the lock had a smug air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he had got in, once, long ago. Rincewind the student had pushed at the door and it had swung open, and then a moment later the Spell had jumped into his mind and ruined his life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ said a voice from behind the grille, as kindly as it could manage. ‘Just go and find us a wizard, there’s a good fellow.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a deep breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Stand back,’ he rasped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Find something to hide behind,’ he barked, with his voice shaking only slightly. ‘You too,’ he said to Bethan and Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But you can’t —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean it!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He means it,’ said Twoflower. ‘That little vein on the side of his forehead, you know, when it throbs like that, well —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Shut up!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind raised one arm uncertainly and pointed it at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was total silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Oh gods, he thought, what happens now?</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the blackness at the back of his mind the Spell shifted uneasily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind tried to get in tune or whatever with the metal of the lock. If he could sow discord amongst its atoms so that they flew apart —</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nothing happened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He swallowed hard, and turned his attention to the wood. It was old and nearly fossilised, and probably wouldn’t burn even if soaked in oil and dropped into a furnace. He tried anyway, explaining to the ancient molecules that they should try to jump up and down to keep warm —</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the strained silence of his own mind he glared at the Spell, which looked very sheepish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He considered the air around the door itself, how it might best be twisted into weird shapes so that the door existed in another set of dimensions entirely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The door sat there, defiantly solid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sweating, his mind beginning the endless walk up to 187 the blackboard in front of the grinning class, he turned desperately to the lock again. It must be made of little bits of metal, not very heavy —</div>
<div class="paragraph">From the grille came the faintest of sounds. It was the noise of wizards untensing themselves and shaking their heads.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone whispered, <em class="calibre3">‘I told you—’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a tiny grinding noise, and a click.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s face was a mask. Perspiration dripped off his chin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was another click, and the grinding of reluctant spindles. Trymon had oiled the lock, but the oil had been soaked up by the rust and dust of years, and the only way for a wizard to move something by magic, unless he can harness some external movement, is to use the leverage of his mind itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was trying very hard to prevent his brain being pushed out of his ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lock rattled. Metal rods flexed in pitted groves, gave in, pushed levers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Levers clicked, notches engaged. There was a long drawn-out grinding noise that left Rincewind on his knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The door swung open on pained hinges. The wizards sidled out cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower and Bethan helped Rincewind to his feet. He stood grey-faced and swaying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not bad,’ said one of the wizards, looking closely at the lock. ‘A little slow, perhaps.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Never mind that!’ snapped Jiglad Wert. ‘Did you three see anyone on the way down here?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Someone has stolen the Octavo.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s head jerked up. His eyes focussed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Trymon —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind swallowed. ‘Tall man?’ he said. ‘Fair hair, looks a bit like a ferret?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now that you mention it —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He was in my class,’ said Rincewind. ‘They always said he’d go a long way.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’ll go a lot further if he opens the book,’ said one of the wizards, who was hastily rolling a cigarette in shaking fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Why?’ said Twoflower. ‘What will happen?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards looked at one another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s an ancient secret, handed down from mage to mage, and we can’t pass it on to knowlessmen,’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, go on,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh well, it probably doesn’t matter any more. One mind can’t hold all the spells. It’ll break down, and leave a hole.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What? In his head?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Um. No. In the fabric of the Universe,’ said Wert. ‘He might think he can control it by himself, but —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They felt the sound before they heard it. It started off in the stones as a slow vibration, then rose suddenly to a knife-edge whine that bypassed the eardrums and bored straight into the brain. It sounded like a human voice singing, or chanting, or screamfng, but there were deeper and more horrible harmonics.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards went pale. Then, as one man, they turned and ran up the steps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were crowds outside the building. Some people were holding torches, others had stopped in the act of piling kindling around the walls. But everyone was staring up at the Tower of Art.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards pushed their way through the unheeding bodies, and turned to look up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sky was full of moons. Each one was three times bigger than the Disc’s own moon, and each was in shadow except for a pink crescent where it caught the light of the star.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But in front of everything the top of the Tower of Art was an incandescent fury. Shapes could be dimly glimpsed within it, but there was nothing reassuring about them. The sound had changed now to the wasplike buzzing, magnified a million times.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some of the wizards sank to their knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘He’s done it,’ said Wert, shaking his head. ‘He’s opened a pathway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Are those things demons?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, <em class="calibre3">demons,’</em> said Wert. ‘Demons would be a picnic compared with what’s trying to come through up there.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’re worse than anything we can possibly imagine,’ said Panter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can imagine some pretty bad things,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘These are worse.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And what do you propose to do about it?’ said a clear voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They turned. Bethan was glaring at them, arms folded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Pardon?’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re wizards, aren’t you?’ she said. ‘Well, get on with it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What, tackle that?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Know anyone else?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wert pushed forward. ‘Madam, I don’t think you quite understand —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Dungeons Dimensions will empty into our Universe, right?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, yes —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ll all be eaten by things with tentacles for faces, right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nothing so pleasant, but —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘And you’re just going to let it happen?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Listen,’ said Rincewind. ‘It’s all over, do you see? You can’t put the spells back in the book, you can’t unsay what’s been said, you can’t —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You can <em class="calibre3">try!’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sighed, and turned to Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wasn’t there. Rincewind’s eyes turned inevitably towards the base of the Tower of Art, and he was just in time to see the tourist’s plump figure, sword inexpertly in hand, as it disappeared into a door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s feet made their own decision and, from the oint of view of his head, got it entirely wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other wizards watched him go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well?’ said Bethan. <em class="calibre3">‘He’s</em> going.’. The wizards tried to avoid one another’s eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Eventually Wert said, ‘We could try, I suppose. It doesn’t seem to be spreading.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But we’ve got hardly any magic to speak of,’ said one of the wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you got a better idea, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">One by one, their ceremonial robes glittering in the weird light, the wizards turned and trudged towards the tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tower was hollow inside, with the stone treads of its staircase mortared spiral-fashion into the walls. Twoflower was already several turns up by the time Rincewind caught him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Hold on,’ he said, as cheerfully as he could manage. ‘This sort of thing is a job for the likes of Cohen, not you. No offence.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Would he do any good?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked up at the actinic light that lanced down through the distant hole at the top of the staircase.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ he admitted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then I’d be as good as him, wouldn’t I?’ said Twoflower, flourishing his looted sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind hopped after him, keeping as close to the wall as possible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You don’t understand!’ he shouted. There’s unimaginable horrors up there!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You always said I didn’t have any imagination.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s a point, yes,’ Rincewind conceded, ‘but —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower sat down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ he said. ‘I’ve been looking forward to something like this ever since I came here. I mean, this is an adventure, isn’t it? Alone against the gods, that sort of thing?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind opened and shut his mouth for a few seconds before the right words managed to come out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can you use a sword?’ he said weakly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know. I’ve never tried.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re mad!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked at him with his head on one side. ‘You’re a fine one to talk,’ he said. ‘I’m here because I don’t know any better, but what about you?’ He pointed downwards, to where the other wizards were toiling up the stairs. ‘What about them?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Blue light speared down the inside of the tower. There was a peal of thunder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards reached them, coughing horribly and fighting for breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What’s the plan?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There isn’t one,’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right. Fine,’ said Rincewind. ‘I’ll leave you to get on with it, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ll come with us,’ said Panter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I’m not even a proper wizard. You threw me out, remember?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t think of any student less able,’ said the old wizard, ‘but you’re here, and that’s the only qualification you need. Come on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The light flared and went out. The terrible noises died as if strangled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Silence filled the tower; one of those heavy, pressing silences.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s stopped,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something moved, high up against the circle of red sky. It fell slowly, turning over and over and drifting from side to side. It hit the stairs a turn above them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was first to it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the Octavo. But it lay on the stone as limp and lifeless as any other book, its pages fluttering in the breeze that blew up the tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower panted up behind Rincewind, and looked down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘They’re blank,’ he whispered. ‘Every page is completely blank.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Then he did it,’ said Wert. ‘He’s read the spells. Successfully, too. I wouldn’t have believed it.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There was all that noise,’ said Rincewind doubtfully. ‘The light, too. Those shapes. That didn’t sound so successful to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, you always get a certain amount of extradimen-sional attention in any great work of magic,’ said Panter dismissively. ‘It impresses people, nothing more.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It looked like monsters up there,’ said Twoflower, standing closer to Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Monsters? Show me some monsters!’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Instinctively they looked up. There was no sound. Nothing moved against the circle of light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think we should go up and, er, congratulate him,’ said Wert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Congratulate?’ exploded Rincewind. ‘He stole the Octavo! He locked you up!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards exchanged knowing looks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, well,’ said one of them. ‘When you’ve advanced in the craft, lad, you’ll know that there are times when the important thing is success.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s getting there that matters,’ said Wert bluntly. ‘Not how you travel.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They set off up the spiral.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind sat down, scowling at the darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He felt a hand on his shoulder. It was Twoflower, who was holding the Octavo.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is no way to treat a book,’ he said. ‘Look, he’s bent the spine right back. People always do that, they’ve got no idea of how to treat them.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yah,’ said Rincewind vaguely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t worry,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m not worried, I’m just angry,’ snapped Rincewind. ‘Give me the bloody thing!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He snatched the book and snapped it open viciously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He rummaged around in the back of his mind, where the Spell hung out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right,’ he snarled. You’ve had your fun, you’ve ruined my life, now get back to where you belong!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But I—’ protested Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The Spell, I mean the Spell,’ said Rincewind. ‘Go on, get back on the page!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glared at the ancient parchment until his eyes crossed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Then I’ll say you!’ he shouted, his voice echoing up the tower. ‘You can join the rest of them and much good may it do you!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He shoved the book back into Twoflower’s arms and staggered off up the steps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizards had reached the top and disappeared from view. Rincewind climbed after them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Lad, am I?’ he muttered. ‘When I’m advanced in the craft, eh? I just managed to go around with one of the Great Spells in my head for years without going totally insane, didn’t I?’ He considered the last question from all angles. Yes, you did,’ he reassured himself. ‘You didn’t start talking to trees, even when trees started talking to <em class="calibre3">you.’</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">His head emerged into the sultry air at the top of the tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had expected to see fire-blackened stones criss-crossed with talon marks, or perhaps something even worse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Instead he saw the seven senior wizards standing by Trymon, who seemed totally unscathed. He turned and smiled pleasantly at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Ah, Rincewind. Come and join us, won’t you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">So this is it, Rincewind thought. All that drama for nothing. Maybe I really am not cut out to be a wizard, maybe —</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up and into Trymon’s eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was the Spell, in its years of living in Rincewind’s head, that had affected his eyes. Perhaps his time with Twoflower, who only saw things as they ought to be, had taught him to see things as they are.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But what was certain was that by far the most difficult thing Rincewind did in his whole life was look at Trymon without running in terror or being very violently sick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others didn’t seem to have noticed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They also seemed to be standing very still.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon had tried to contain the seven Spells in his mind and it had broken, and the Dungeon Dimensions had found their hole, all right. Silly to have imagined that the Things would have come marching out of a sort of rip in the sky, waving mandibles and tentacles. That was old-fashioned stuff, far too risky. Even nameless terrors learned to move with the times. All they really needed to enter was one head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His eyes were empty holes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Knowledge speared into Rincewind’s mind like a knife of ice. The Dungeon Dimensions would be a playgroup compared to what the Things could do in a universe of order. People were craving order, and order they would get—the order of the turning screw, the immutable law of straight lines and numbers. They would beg for the harrow...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon was looking at him. <em class="calibre3">Something</em> was looking at him. And still the others hadn’t noticed. Could he even explain it? Trymon looked the same as he had always done, except for the eyes, and a slight sheen to his skin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind stared, and knew that there were far worse things than Evil. All the demons in Hell would torture your very soul, but that was precisely because they valued souls very highly; evil would always try to steal the universe, but at least it considered the universe worth stealing. But the grey world behind those empty eyes would trample and destroy without even according its victims the dignity of hatred. It wouldn’t even notice them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon held out his hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The eighth spell,’ he said. ‘Give it to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind backed away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘This is disobedience, Rincewind. I am your superior, after all. In fact, I have been voted the supreme head of all the Orders.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Really?’ said Rincewind hoarsely. He looked at the other wizards. They were immobile, like statues.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yes,’ said Trymon pleasantly. ‘Quite without prompting, too. Very democratic.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I preferred tradition,’ said Rincewind. ‘That way even the dead get the vote.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You will give me the spell voluntarily,’ said Trymon. ‘Do I have to show you what I will do otherwise? And in the end you will still yield it. You will scream for the opportunity to give it to me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">If it stops anywhere, it stops here, thought Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ll have to take it,’ he said. 1 won’t give it to you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I remember you,’ said Trymon. ‘Not much good as a student, as I recall. You never really trusted magic, you kept on saying there should be a better way to run a universe. Well, you’ll see. I have plans. We can —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Not we,’ said Rincewind firmly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Give me the Spell!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Try and take it,’ said Rincewind, backing away. 1 don’t think you can.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind jumped aside as octarine fire flashed from Trymon’s fingers and left a bubbling rock puddle on the stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could sense the Spell lurking in the back of his mind. He could sense its fear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the silent caverns of his head he reached out for it. It retreated in astonishment, like a dog faced with a maddened sheep. He followed, stamping angrily through the disused lots and inner-city disaster areas of his subconscious, until he found it cowering behind a heap of condemned memories. It roared silent defiance at him, but Rincewind wasn’t having any.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Is this it? he shouted at it. When it’s time for the showdown, you go and hide? You’re frightened?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Spell said, that’s nonsense, you can’t possibly believe that, I’m one of the Eight Spells. But Rincewind advanced on it angrily, shouting, Maybe, but the fact is I do believe it and you’d better remember whose head you’re in, right? I can believe anything I like in here!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind jumped aside again as another bolt of fire lanced through the hot night. Trymon grinned, and made nother complicated motion with his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pressure gripped Rincewind. Every inch of his skin felt as though it was being used as an anvil. He flopped onto his knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There are much worse things,’ said Trymon pleasantly. ‘I can make your flesh burn on the bones, or fill your body with ants. I have the power to —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I have a sword, you know.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The voice was squeaky with defiance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind raised his head. Through a purple haze of pain he saw Twoflower standing behind Trymon, holding a sword in exactly the wrong way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon laughed, and flexed his fingers. For a moment his attention was diverted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was angry. He was angry at the Spell, at the world, at the unfairness of everything, at the fact that he hadn’t had much sleep lately, at the fact that he wasn’t thinking quite straight. But most of all he was angry with Trymon, standing there full of the magic Rincewind had always wanted but had never achieved, and doing nothing worthwhile with it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sprang, striking Trymon in the stomach with his head and flinging his arms around him in desperation. Twoflower was knocked aside as they slid along the stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trymon snarled, and got out the first syllable of a spell before Rincewind’s wildly flailing elbow caught him in the neck. A blast of randomised magic singed Rincewind’s hair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind fought as he always fought, without skill or fairness or tactics but with a great deal of whirlwind effort. The strategy was to prevent an opponent getting enough time to realise that in fact Rincewind wasn’t a very good or strong fighter, and it often worked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was working now, because Trymon had spent rather too much time reading ancient manuscripts and not getting enough healthy exercise and vitamins. He managed to get several blows in, which Rincewind was far too high on rage to notice, but he only used his hands while Rincewind employed knees, feet and teeth as well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was, in fact, winning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This came as a shock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It came as more of a shock when, as he knelt on Trymon’s chest hitting him repeatedly about the head, the other man’s face changed. The skin crawled and waved like something seen through a heat haze, and Trymon spoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Help me!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">For a moment his eyes looked up at Rincewind in fear, pain and entreaty. Then they weren’t eyes at all, but multi-faceted things on a head that could be called a head only by stretching the definition to its limits. Tentacles and saw-edged legs and talons unfolded to rip Rincewind’s rather sparse flesh from his body.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower, the tower and the red sky all vanished. Time ran slowly, and stopped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind bit hard on a tentacle that was trying to pull his face off. As it uncoiled in agony he thrust out a hand and felt it break something hot and squishy.</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">They</em> were watching. He turned his head, and saw that now he was fighting on the floor of an enormous amphitheatre. On each side tier upon tier of creatures stared down at him, creatures with bodies and faces that appeared to have been made by crossbreeding nightmares. He caught a glimpse of even worse things behind him, huge shadows that stretched into the overcast sky, before the Trymon-monster lunged at him with a barbed sting the size of a spear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind dodged sideways, and then swung around with both hands clasped together into one fist that caught the thing in the stomach, or possibly the thorax, with a blow that ended in the satisfying crunch of chitin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He plunged forward, fighting now out of terror of what would happen if <em class="calibre3">he</em> stopped. The ghostly arena was full of the cluttering of the Dungeon creatures, a wall of rustling sound that hammered at his ears as he struggled. He imagined that sound filling the Disc, and he flung blow after blow to save the world of men, to preserve the little circle of firelight in the dark night of chaos and to lose the gap through which the nightmare was advancing. But mainly he hit it to stop it hitting back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Claws or talons drew white-hotlines across his back, and something bit his shoulder, but he found a nest of soft tubes among all the hairs and scales and squeezed it hard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">An arm barbed with spikes swept him away, and he rolled over in the gritty black dust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Instinctively he curled into a ball, but nothing happened. Instead of the onslaught of fury he expected he opened his eyes to see the creature limping away from him, various liquids leaking from it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the first time anything had ever run away from Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He dived after it, caught a scaly leg, and wrenched. The creature chittered at him and flailed desperately with such appendages as were still working, but Rincewind’s grip was unshakeable. He pulled himself up and planted one last satisfying blow into its remaining eye. It screamed, and ran. And there was only one place for it to run to.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tower and the red sky came back with the click of restored time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As soon as he felt the press of the flagstones under his feet Rincewind flung his weight to one side and rolled on his back with the frantic creature at arms’ length.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now!’ he yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Now what?’ said Twoflower. ‘Oh. Yes. Right!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He swung the sword inexpertly but with some force, missing Rincewind by inches and burying it deeply in the Thing. There was a shrill buzzing, as though he had smashed a wasp’s nest, and the melee of arms and legs and tentacles flailed in agony. It rolled again, screaming and thrashing at the flagstones, and then it was thrashing at nothing at all because it had rolled over the edge of the stairway, taking Rincewind with it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a squelching noise as it bounced off a few of the stone steps, and then a distant and disappearing shriek as it tumbled the depth of the tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally there was a dull explosion and a flash of octarine light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then Twoflower was alone on the top of the tower—alone, that is, except for seven wizards who still seemed to be frozen to the spot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat bewildered as seven fireballs rose out of the blackness and plunged into the discarded Octavo, which suddenly looked its old self and far more interesting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh dear,’ he said. ‘I suppose they’re the Spells.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Twoflower.’ The voice was hollow and echoing, and just recognisable as Rincewind’s.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower stopped with his hand halfway to the book.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’ he said. ‘Is that—is that you, Rincewind?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said the voice, resonant with the tones of the grave. ‘And there is something very important I want you to do for me, Twoflower.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twofiower looked around. He pulled himself together. So the fate of the Disc would depend on him, after all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m ready,’ he said, his voice vibrating with pride. ‘What is it you want me to do?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘First, I want you to listen very carefully,’ said Rincewind’s disembodied voice patiently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m listening.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">It’s very important that when I tell you what to do you don’t say "What do you mean?" or argue or anything, understand?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower stood to attention. At least, his rnind stood to attention, his body really couldn’t. He stuck out several of his chins.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m ready,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good. Now, what I want you to do is —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind’s voice rose from the depths of the stairwell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I want you to come and help me up before I lose my grip on this stone,’ it said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower opened his mouth, then shut it quickly. He ran to the square hole and peered down. By the ruddy light of the star he could just make out Rincewind’s eyes looking up at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower lay down on his stomach and reached out. Rincewind’s hand gripped his wrist in the sort of grip that told Twoflower that if he, Rincewind, wasn’t pulled up then there was no possible way in which that grip was going to be relaxed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m glad you’re alive,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good. So am I,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hung around in the darkness for a bit. After the past few minutes it was almost enjoyable, but only almost.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Pull me up, then,’ he hinted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think that might be sort of difficult,’ grunted Twoflower. ‘I don’t actually think I can do it, in fact.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What are you holding on to, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I mean besides me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What do you mean, besides you?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind said a word.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, look,’ said Twoflower. The steps go around in a spiral, right? If I sort of swing you and then you let go —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘If you’re going to suggest I try dropping twenty feet down a pitch dark tower in the hope of hitting a couple of greasy little steps which might not even still be there, you can forget it,’ said Rincewind sharply.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There is an alternative, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Out with it, man.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You could drop five hundred feet down a pitch black tower and hit stones which certainly are there,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Dead silence came from below him. Then Rincewind said, accusingly, ‘That was sarcasm.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I thought it was just stating the obvious.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I suppose you couldn’t do some magic—’ Twoflower began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just a thought.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a flare of light far below, and a confused shouting, and then more lights, more shouting, and a line f torches starting up the long spiral.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There’s some people coming up the stairs,’ said Twoflower, always keen to inform.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I hope they’re running,’ said Rincewind. ‘I can’t feel my arm.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re lucky,’ said Twoflower. ‘I can feel mine.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The leading torch stopped its climb and a voice rang out, filling the hollow tower with indecipherable echoes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think,’ said Twoflower, aware that he was gradually sliding further over the hole, ‘that was someone telling us to hold on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind said another word.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he said, in a lower and more urgent tone, ‘Actually, I don’t think I can hang on any longer.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Try.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s no good, I can feel my hand slipping!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower sighed. It was time for harsh measures. ‘All right, then,’ he said. ‘Drop, then. See if I care.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Rincewind, so astonished he forgot to let go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Go on, die. Take the easy way out.’</div>
<div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre3">‘Easy?’.</em></div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All you have to do is plummet screaming through the air and break every bone in your body,’ said Twoflower. ‘Anybody can do it. Go on. I wouldn’t want you to think that perhaps you ought to stay alive because we need you to say the Spells and save the Disc. Oh, no. Who cares if we all get burned up? Go on, just think of yourself. Drop.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a long, embarrassed silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t know why it is,’ said Rincewind eventually, in a voice rather louder than necessary, ‘but ever since I met you I seem to have spent a lot of time hanging by my fingers over certain depth, have you noticed?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Death,’ corrected Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Death what?’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Certain death,’ said Twoflower helpfully, trying to ignore the slow but inexorable slide of his body across the flagstones. ‘Hanging over certain death. You don’t like heights.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Heights I don’t mind,’ said Rincewind’s voice from the darkness. ‘Heights I can live with. It’s depths that are occupying my attention at the moment. Do you know what I’m going to do when we get out of this?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No?’ said Twoflower, wedging his toes into a gap in the flagstones and trying to make himself immobile by sheer force of will.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m going to build a house in the flattest country I can find and it’s only going to have a ground floor and I’m not even going to wear sandals with thick soles —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The leading torch came around the last turn of the spiral and Twoflower looked down on the grinning face of Cohen. Behind him, still hopping awkwardly up the stones, he could make out the reassuring bulk of the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Everything all right?’ said Cohen. ‘Can I do anything?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind took a deep breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower recognised the signs. Rincewind was about to say something like, ‘Yes, I’ve got this itch on the back of my neck, you couldn’t scratch it, could you, on your way past?’ or ‘No, I enjoy hanging over bottomless drops’ and he decided he couldn’t possibly face that. He spoke very quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Pull Rincewind back onto the stairs,’ he snapped. Rincewind deflated in mid-snarl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen caught him around the waist and jerked him unceremoniously onto the stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Nasty mess down on the floor down there,’ he said conversationally. ‘Who was it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Did it—’ Rincewind swallowed, ‘did it have—you know—tentacles and things?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘No,’ said Cohen. ‘Just the normal bits. Spread out a bit, of course.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked at Twoflower, who shook his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Just a wizard who let things get on top of him,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Unsteadily, with his arms screaming at him, Rincewind let himself be helped back onto the roof of the tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How did you get here?’ he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen pointed to the Luggage, which had trotted over 203 to Twoflower and opened its lid like a dog that knows it’s been bad and is hoping that a quick display of affection may avert the rolled-up newspaper of authority.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Bumpy but fast,’ he said admiringly. ‘I’ll tell you this, no-one tries to stop you.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked up at the sky. It was indeed full of moons, huge cratered discs now ten times bigger than the Disc’s tiny satellite. He looked at them without much interest. He felt washed out and stretched well beyond breaking point, as fragile as ancient elastic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He noticed that Twoflower was trying to set up his picture box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen was looking at the seven senior wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Funny place to put statues,’ he said. ‘No-one can see them. Mind you, I can’t say they’re up to much. Very poor work.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind staggered across and tapped Wert gingerly on the chest. He was solid stone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is it, he thought. I just want to go home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on, I am home. More or less. So I just want a good sleep, and perhaps it will all be better in the morning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His gaze fell on the Octavo, which was outlined in tiny flashes of octarine fire. Oh yes, he thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He picked it up and thumbed idly through its pages. They were thick with complex and swirling script that changed and reformed even as he looked at it. It seemed undecided as to what it should be; one moment it was an orderly, matter-of-fact printing; the next a series of angular runes. Then it would be curly Kythian spellscript. Then it would be pictograms in some ancient, evil and forgotten writing that seemed to consist exclusively of unpleasant reptilian beings doing complicated and painful things to one another...</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last page was empty. Rincewind sighed, and looked in the back of his mind. The Spell looked back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had dreamed of this moment, how he would finally evict the Spell and take vacant possession of his own head and learn all those lesser spells which had, up until hen, been too frightened to stay in his mind. Somehow he had expected it to be far more exciting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Instead, in utter exhaustion and in a mood to brook no argument, he stared coldly at the Spell and jerked a metaphorical thumb over his shoulder. You. Out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It looked for a moment as though the Spell was going to argue, but it wisely thought better of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a tingling sensation, a blue flash behind his eyes, and a sudden feeling of emptiness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When he looked down at the page it was full of words. They were runes again. He was glad about that, the reptilian pictures were not only unspeakable but probably unpronounceable too, and reminded him of things he would have great difficulty in forgetting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked blankly at the book while Twoflower bustled around unheeded and Cohen tried in vain to lever the rings off the stone wizards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had to do something, he reminded himself. What was it, now?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He opened the book at the first page and began to read, his lips moving and his forefinger tracing the outline of each letter. As he mumbled each word it appeared soundlessly in the air beside him, in bright colours that streamed away in the night wind. He turned over the page.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Other people were coming up the steps now—star people, citizens, even some of the Patrician’s personal guard. A couple of star people made a half-hearted attempt to approach Rincewind, who was surrounded now by a rainbow swirl of letters and took absolutely no notice of them, but Cohen drew his sword and looked nonchalantly at them and they thought better of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Silence spread out from Rincewind’s bent form like ripples in a puddle. It cascaded down the tower and spread out through the milling crowds below, flowed over the walls, gushed darkly through the city, and engulfed the lands beyond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bulk of the star loomed silently over the Disc. In the sky around it the new moons turned slowly and noiselessly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The only sound was Rincewind’s hoarse whispering as he turned page after page.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Isn’t this exciting!’ said Twoflower. Cohen, who was rolling a cigarette from the tarry remnants of its ancestors, looked at him blankly, paper halfway to his lips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Isn’t <em class="calibre3">what</em> exciting?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All this magic!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s only lights,’ said Cohen critically. ‘He hasn’t even produced doves out of his sleeves.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, but can’t you sense the occult potentiality?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cohen produced a big yellow match from somewhere in his tobacco bag, looked at Wert for a moment, and with great deliberation struck the match on his fossilised nose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ he said to Twoflower, as kindly as he could manage. ‘What do you expect? I’ve been around a long time, I’ve seen the whole magical thing, and I can tell you that if you go around with your jaw dropping all the time people hit it. Anyway, wizard’s die just like anyone else when you stick a —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a loud snap as Rincewind shut the book. He stood up, and looked around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What happened next was this:</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took a little while for people to realise it. Everyone had ducked instinctively, waiting for the explosion of white light or scintillating fireball or, in the case of Cohen, who had fairly low expectations, a few white pigeons, possibly a slightly crumpled rabbit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn’t even an interesting nothing. Sometimes things can fail to happen in quite impressive ways, but as far as non-events went this one just couldn’t compete.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Is that it?’ said Cohen. There was a general muttering from the crowd, and several of the star people were looking angrily at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wizard stared Wearily at Cohen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I suppose so,’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘But nothing’s happened.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked blankly at the Octavo.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Maybe it has a subtle effect?’ he said hopefully. ‘After all, we don’t know exactly what is supposed to happen.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We knew it!’ shouted one of the star people. ‘Magic doesn’t work! It’s all illusion!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A stone looped over the roof and hit Rincewind on the shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah,’ said another star person. ‘Let’s get him!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Let’s throw him off the tower!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah, let’s get him <em class="calibre3">and</em> throw him off the tower!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd surged forward. Twoflower held up his hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m sure there’s just been a slight mistake—’ he began, before his legs were kicked from underneath him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh bugger,’ said Cohen, dropping his dogend and grinding it under a sandalled foot. He drew his sword and looked around for the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It hadn’t rushed to Twoflower’s aid. It was standing in front of Rincewind, who was clutching the Octavo to his chest like a hot-water bottle and looking frantic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A star man lunged at him. The Luggage raised its lid threateningly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know why it hasn’t worked,’ said a voice from the back of the crowd. It was Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh yeah?’ said the nearest citizen. ‘And why should we listen to you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">A mere fraction of a second later Cohen’s sword was pressed against his neck.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘On the other hand,’ said the man evenly, ‘perhaps we should pay attention to what this young lady has got to say.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">As Cohen swung around slowly with his sword at the ready Bethan stepped forward and pointed to the swirling shapes of the spells, which still hung in the air around Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That one can’t be right,’ she said, indicating a smudge of dirty brown amidst the pulsing, brightly coloured flares.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You must have mispronounced a word. Let’s have a look.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind passed her the Octavo without a word.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She opened it and peered the pages.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What funny writing,’ she said. ‘It keeps changing. What’s that crocodile thing doing to the octopus?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked over her shoulder and, without thinking, told her. She was silent for a moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ she said levelly. ‘I didn’t know crocodiles could do that.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s just ancient picture writing,’ said Rincewind hurriedly. ‘It’ll change if you wait. The Spells can appear in every known language.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can you remember what you said when the wrong colour appeared?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind ran a finger down the page.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There, I think. Where the two-headed lizard is doing—whatever it’s doing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower appeared at her other shoulder. The Spell flowed into another script.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I can’t even pronounce it,’ said Bethan. ‘Squiggle, squiggle, dot, dash.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s Cupumuguk snow runes,’ said Rincewind. ‘I think it should be pronounced "zph".’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It didn’t work, though. How about "sph"?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at the word. It remained resolutely off-colour.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Or "sff"?’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It might be "tsff",’ said Rincewind doubtfully. If anything the colour became a dirtier shade of brown.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘How about "zsff"?’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t be silly,’ said Rincewind. ‘With snow runes the —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan elbowed him in the stomach and pointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The brown shape in the air was now a brilliant red.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The book trembled in her hands. Rincewind grabbed her around the waist, snatched Twoflower by the collar, and jumped backwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bethan lost her grip on the Octavo, which tumbled towards the floor. And didn’t reach it.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">The air around the Octavo glowed. It rose slowly, flapping its pages like wings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then there was a plangent, sweet twanging noise and it seemed to explode in a complicated silent flower of light which rushed outwards, faded, and was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But something was happening much further up in the sky...</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Down in the geological depths of Great A’Tuin’s huge brain new thoughts surged along neural pathways the size of arterial roads. It was impossible for a sky turtle to change its expression, but in some indefinable way its scaly, meteor-pocked face looked quite expectant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was staring fixedly at the eight spheres endlessly orbiting around the star, on the very beaches of space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The spheres were cracking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Huge segments of rock broke away and began the long spiral down to the star. The sky filled with glittering shards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">From the wreakage of one hollow shell a very small sky turtle paddled its way into the red light. It was barely bigger than an asteroid, its shell still shiny with molten yolk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were four small world-elephant calves on there, too. And on their backs was a discworld, tiny as yet, covered in smoke and volcanoes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Great A’Tuin waited until all eight baby turtles had freed themselves from their shells and were treading space and looking bewildered. Then, carefully, so as not to dislodge anything, the old turtle turned and with considerable relief set out on the long swim to the blessedly cool, bottomless depths of space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The young turtles followed, orbiting their parent.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">Twoflower stared raptly at the display overhead. He probably had the best view of anyone on the Disc.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then a terrible thought occurred to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Where’s the picture box?’ he asked urgently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’ said Rincewind, eyes fixed on the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The picture box,’ said Twoflower. ‘I must get a picture of this!’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Can’t you just remember it?’ said Bethan, not looking at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I might forget.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘<em class="calibre3">I</em> won’t ever forget,’ she said. ‘It’s the most beautiful thing I’ve ever seen.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Much better than pigeons and billiard balls,’ agreed Cohen. ‘I’ll give you that, Rincewind. How’s it done?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I dunno,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘The star’s getting smaller,’ said Bethan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind was vaguely aware of Twoflower’s voice arguing with the demon who lived in the box and painted the pictures. It was quite a technical argument, about field depths and whether or not the demon still had enough red paint.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It should be pointed out that currently Great A’Tuin was very pleased and contented, and feelings like that in a brain the size of several large cities are bound to radiate out. In fact most people on the Disc were currently in a state of mind normally achievable only by a lifetime of dedicated meditation or about thirty seconds of illegal herbage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That’s old Twoflower, Rincewind thought. It’s not that he doesn’t appreciate beauty, he just appreciates it in his own way. I mean, if a poet sees a daffodil he stares at it and writes a long poem about it, but Twoflower wanders off to find a book on botany. And treads on it. It’s right what Cohen said. He just looks at things, but nothing he looks at is ever the same again. Including me, I suspect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Disc’s own sun rose. The star was already dwindling, and it wasn’t quite so much competition. Good reliable Disc light poured across the enraptured landscape, like a sea of gold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Or, as the more reliable observers generally held, like golden syrup.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">That is a nice dramatic ending, but life doesn’t work like that and there were other things that had to happen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the Octavo, for example.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As the sunlight hit it the book snapped shut and started to fall back to the tower. And many of the observers realised that dropping towards them was the single most magical thing on the Discworld.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The feeling of bliss and brotherhood evaporated along with the morning dew. Rincewind and Twoflower were elbowed aside as the crowd surged forward, struggling and trying to climb up one another, hands outstretched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Octavo dropped into the centre of the shouting mass. There was a snap. A decisive snap, the sort of snap made by a lid that doesn’t intend to be opening in a hurry.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind peered between someone’s legs at Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Do you know what I think’s going to happen?’ he said, grinning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think that when you open the Luggage there’s just going to be your laundry in there, that’s what I think.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh dear.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think the Octavo knows how to look after itself. Best place for it, really.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I suppose so. You know, sometimes I get the feeling that the Luggage knows exactly what it’s doing.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I know what you mean.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">They crawled to the edge of the milling crowd, stood up, dusted themselves off and headed for the steps. No-one paid them any attention.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What are they doing now?’ said Twoflower, trying to see over the heads of the throng.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It looks as though they’re trying to lever it open,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a snap and a scream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think the Luggage rather enjoys the attention,’ said Twoflower, as they began their cautious descent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes, it probably does it good to get out and meet people,’ said Rincewind, ‘and now I think it’d do me good to go and order a couple of drinks.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good idea,’ said Twoflower. ‘I’ll have a couple of drinks too.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">It was nearly noon when Twoflower awoke. He couldn’t remember why he was in a hayloft, or why he was wearing someone else’s coat, but he did wake up with one idea right in the forefront of his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He decided it was vitally important to tell Rincewind about it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He fell out of the hay and landed on the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, you’re here, are you?’ he said. ‘I hope you’re ashamed of yourself.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage looked bewildered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Anyway, I want to comb my hair. Open up,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage obligingly flipped its lid. Twoflower rooted around among the bags and boxes inside until he found a comb and mirror and repaired some of the damage of the night. Then he looked hard at the Luggage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I suppose you wouldn’t like to tell me what you’ve done with the Octavo?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage’s expression could only be described as wooden.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right. Come on, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower stepped out into the sunlight, which was slightly too bright for his current tastes, and wandered aimlessly along the street. Everything seemed fresh and new, even the smells, but there didn’t seem to be many people up yet. It had been a long night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He found Rincewind at the foot of the Tower of Art, upervising a team of workmen who had rigged up a gantry of sorts on the roof and were lowering the stone wizards to the ground. He seemed to be assisted by a monkey, but Twoflower was in no mood to be surprised at anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Will they be able to be turned back?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind looked around. ‘What? Oh, it’s you. No, probably not. I’m afraid they dropped poor old Wert, anyway. Five hundred feet onto cobbles.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Will you be able to do anything about that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Make a nice rockery.’ Rincewind turned and waved at the workmen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re very cheerful,’ said Twoflower, a shade reproachfully. ‘Didn’t you go to bed?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Funny thing, I couldn’t sleep,’ said Rincewind. ‘I came out for a breath of fresh air, and no-one seemed to have any idea what to do, so I just sort of got people together,’ he indicated the librarian, who tried to hold his hand, ‘and started organising things. Nice day, isn’t it? Air like wine.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Rincewind, I’ve decided that —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You know, I think I might re-enroll,’ said Rincewind cheerfully. ‘I think I could really make a go of things this time. I can really see myself getting to grips with magic and graduating really well. They do say if it’s summa cum laude, then the living is easy—.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good, because —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There’s plenty of room at the top, too, now all the big boys will be doing doorstop duty, and —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’m going home.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘– a sharp lad with a bit of experience of the world could—what?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said I’m going home,’ repeated Twoflower, making polite little attempts to shake off the librarian, who was trying to pick lice off him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What home?’ said Rincewind, astonished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Home home. My home. Where I live,’ Twoflower explained sheepishly. ‘Back across the sea. You know.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Where I came from. Will you please stop doing that?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then Twoflower said, ‘You see, last night it occurred to me, I thought, well, the thing is, all this travelling and seeing things is fine but there’s also a lot of fun to be had from having <em class="calibre3">been.</em> You know, sticking all your pictures in a book and remembering things.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘There is?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, yes. The important thing about having lots of things to remember is that you’ve got to go somewhere afterwards where you can remember them, you see? You’ve got to stop. You haven’t really been anywhere until you’ve got back home. I think that’s what I mean.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind ran the sentence across his mind again. It didn’t seem any better second time around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh,’ he said again. Well, good. If that’s the way you look at it. When are you going, then?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Today, I think. There’s bound to be a ship going part of the way.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I expect so,’ said Rincewind awkwardly. He looked at his feet. He looked at the sky. He cleared his throat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘We’ve been through some times together, eh?’ said Twoflower, nudging him in the ribs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yeah,’ said Rincewind, contorting his face into something like a grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’re not upset, are you?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Who, me?’ said Rincewind. ‘Gosh, no. Hundred and one things to do.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">That’s all right, then. Listen, let’s go and have breakfast and then we can go down to the docks.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind nodded dismally, turned to his assistant, and took a banana out of his pocket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘You’ve got the hang of it now, you take over,’ he muttered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oook.’</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><div class="paragraph">In fact there wasn’t any ship going anywhere near the Agatean Empire, but that was an academic point because Twoflower simply counted gold pieces into the hand of the first captain with a halfway clean ship until the man suddenly saw the merits of changing his plans.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind waited on the quayside until Twoflower had finished paying the man about forty times more than his ship was worth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s settled, then,’ said Twoflower. ‘He’ll drop me at the Brown Islands and I can easily get a ship from there.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Great,’ said Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower looked thoughtful for a moment. Then he opened the Luggage and pulled out a bag of gold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Have you seen Cohen and Bethan?’ he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I think they went off to get married,’ said Rincewind. ‘I heard Bethan say it was now or never.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, when you see them give them this,’ said Twoflower, handing him the bag. ‘I know it’s expensive, setting up home for the first time.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower had never fully understood the gulf in the exchange rate. The bag could quite easily set Cohen up with a small kingdom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I’ll hand it over first chance I get,’ he said, and to his own surprise realised that he meant it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Good. I’ve thought about something to give you, too.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Oh, there’s no —’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower rummaged in the Luggage and produced a large sack. He began to fill it with clothes and money and the picture box until finally the Luggage was completely empty. The last thing he put in was his souvenir musical cigarette box with the shell-encrusted lid, carefully wrapped in soft paper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘It’s all yours,’ he said, shutting the Luggage’s lid. ‘I shan’t really need it any more, and it won’t fit on my wardrobe anyway.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘What?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Don’t you want it?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, I—of course, but—it’s yours. It follows you, not me.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Luggage,’ said Twoflower, ‘this is Rincewind. You’re his, right?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage slowly extended its legs, turned very deliberately and looked at Rincewind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I don’t think it belongs to anyone but itself, really,’ said Twoflower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes,’ said Rincewind uncertainly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Well, that’s about it, then,’ said Twoflower. He held out his hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Goodbye, Rincewind. I’ll send you a postcard when I get home. Or something.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Any time you’re passing, there’s bound to be someone here who knows where I am.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yes. Well. That’s it, then.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘That’s it, right enough.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Right.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Yep.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twoflower walked up the gangplank, which the impatient crew hauled up behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rowing drum started its beat and the ship was propelled slowly out onto the turbid waters of the Ankh, now back to their old level, where it caught the tide and turned towards the open sea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rincewind watched it until it was a dot. Then he looked down at the Luggage. It stared back at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘Look,’ he said. ‘Go away. I’m giving you to yourself, do you understand?’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned his back on it and stalked away. After a few seconds he was aware of the little footsteps behind him. He spun around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘I said I don’t want you!’ he snapped, and gave it a kick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Luggage sagged. Rincewind stalked away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After he had gone a few yards he stopped and listened. There was no sound. When he turned the Luggage was where he had left it. It looked sort of huddled. Rincewind hought for a while.</div>
<div class="paragraph">‘All right, then,’ he said. ‘Come on.’</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned his back and strode off to the University. After a few minutes the Luggage appeared to make up its mind, extended its legs again and padded after him. It didn’t see that it had a lot of choice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They headed along the quay and into the city, two dots on a dwindling landscape which, as the perspective broadened, included a tiny ship starting out across a wide green sea that was but a part of a bright circling ocean on a cloud-swirled Disc on the back of four giant elephants that themselves stood on the shell of an enormous turtle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which soon became a glint among the stars, and disappeared.</div>
<br class="calibre1"/><h5 class="subtitle">The End</h5><hr class="calibre4"/><h4 class="calibre12">notes</h4><h1 id="FbAutId_1" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36337893" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36337896" class="calibre9"></a>1 <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">They won’t be described, since even the pretty ones looked like the offspring of an octopus and a bicycle. It is well known that things from undesirable universes are always seeking an entrance into this one, which is the psychic equivalent of handy for the buses and closer to the shops.</div>
<h1 id="FbAutId_2" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36337907" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36337910" class="calibre9"></a>2 <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">A Thaum is the basic unit of magical strength. It has been universally established as the amount of magic needed to create one small white pigeon or three normal sized billiard balls.</div>
<h1 id="FbAutId_3" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36337919" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36337922" class="calibre9"></a>3 <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">An interesting metaphor. To nocturnal trolls, of course, the dawn of time lies in the future.</div>
<h1 id="FbAutId_4" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36337930" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36337933" class="calibre9"></a>4 <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">Not precisely, of course. Trees didn’t burst into flame, people didn’t suddenly become very rich and extremely dead, and the seas didn’t flash into steam. A better simile, in fact, would be ‘not like molten gold’.</div>
<h1 id="FbAutId_5" class="calibre8"><a id="TOC_id36337944" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36337947" class="calibre9"></a>5 <br class="calibre10"/>
</h1><div class="paragraph">No-one knows why, but all the most truly mysterious and magical items are bought from shops that appear and, after a trading life even briefer than a double-glazing company, vanish like smoke. There had been various attempts to explain this, all of which don’t fully account for the observed facts. These shops turn up anywhere in the universe, and their immediate non-existence in any particular city can normally be deduced from crowds of people wandering the streets clutching defunct magical items, ornate guarantee cards, and looking very suspiciously at brick walls.</div>
</div>

{% endraw %}

