---
layout: page
title: "Night Watch"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-night-watch_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216854">Terry Pratchett</a></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36400796">notes</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/>
    
      <h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216854" class="calibre6"></a><a name="TOC_id36216856" class="calibre6"></a>
        Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre7"/>
        NIGHT WATCH <br class="calibre7"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam Vimes sighed when he heard the scream, but he finished shaving before he did anything about it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he put his jacket on and strolled out into the wonderful late spring morning. Birds sang in the trees, bees buzzed in the blossom. The sky was hazy, though, and thunderheads on the horizon threatened rain later. But, for now, the air was hot and heavy. And, in the old cesspit behind the gardener's shed, a young man was treading water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well…treading, anyway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood back a little way and lit a cigar. It probably wouldn't be a good idea to employ a naked flame any nearer to the pit. The fall from the shed roof had broken the crust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning!” he said cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning, your grace,” said the industrious treadler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice was higher pitched than Vimes expected and he realized that, most unusually, the young man in the pit was in fact a young woman. It wasn't <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> unexpected—the Assassins' Guild was aware that women were at least equal to their brothers when it came to inventive killing—but it nevertheless changed the situation somewhat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't believe we've met?” said Vimes. “Although I see you know who I am. You are…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wiggs, sir,” said the swimmer. “Jocasta Wiggs. Honoured to meet you, your grace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wiggs, eh?” said Vimes. “Famous family in the Guild. ‘Sir’ will do, by the way. I think I once broke your father's leg?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. He asked to be remembered to you,” said Jocasta.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a bit young to be sent on this contract, aren't you?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a contract, sir,” said Jocasta, still paddling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come now, Miss Wiggs. The price on my head is at least—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Guild council put it in abeyance, sir,” said the dogged swimmer. “You're off the register. They're not accepting contracts on you at present.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good grief, why not?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't say, sir,” said Miss Wiggs. Her patient struggles had brought her to the edge of the pit, and now she was finding that the brickwork was in very good repair, quite slippery and offered no handholds. Vimes knew this, because he'd spent several hours one afternoon carefully arranging that this should be so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So why were you sent, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Miss Band sent me as an exercise,” said Jocasta. “I say, these bricks really are jolly tricky, aren't they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Vimes, “they are. Have you been <em class="calibre8">rude</em> to Miss Band lately? Upset her in any way?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no, your grace. But she did say I was getting overconfident, and would benefit from some advanced field work.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. I see.” Vimes tried to recall Miss Alice Band, one of the Assassins' Guild's stricter teachers. She was, he'd heard, very hot on practical lessons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So…she sent you to kill me, then?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir! It's an exercise! I don't even have any crossbow bolts! I just had to find a spot where I could get you in my sights and then report back!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She'd believe you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, sir,” said Jocasta, looking rather hurt. “Guild honour, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a deep breath. “You see, Miss Wiggs, quite a few of your chums have tried to kill me at home in recent years. As you might expect, I take a dim view of this.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Easy to see why, sir,” said Jocasta, in the voice of one who knows that their only hope of escaping from their present predicament is reliant on the goodwill of another person who has no pressing reason to have any.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And so you'd be <em class="calibre8">amazed</em> at the booby traps there are around the place,” Vimes went on. “Some of them are pretty cunning, even if I say it myself.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I certainly never expected the tiles on the shed to shift like that, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're on greased rails,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And quite a few of the traps drop you into something deadly,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lucky for me that I fell into this one, eh, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that one's deadly too,” said Vimes. “<em class="calibre8">Eventually</em> deadly.” He sighed. He really wanted to discourage this sort of thing but…they'd put him off the register? It wasn't that he'd <em class="calibre8">liked</em> being shot at by hooded figures in the temporary employ of his many and varied enemies, but he'd always looked at it as some kind of vote of confidence. It showed that he was annoying the rich and arrogant people who ought to be annoyed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Besides, the Assassins' Guild was easy to outwit. They had strict rules, which they followed quite honourably, and this was fine by Vimes, who, in certain practical areas, had no rules whatsoever.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Off the register, eh? The only other person not on it any more, it was rumoured, was Lord Vetinari, the Patrician. The Assassins understood the political game in the city better than anyone, and if they took you off the register it was because they felt your departure would not only spoil the game but also smash the board…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd be jolly grateful if you could pull me out, sir,” said Jocasta.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh, yes. Sorry, got clean clothes on,” said Vimes. “But when I get back to the house I'll tell the butler to come down here with a ladder. How about that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you very much, sir. Nice to have met you, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes strolled back to the house. Off the register? Was he allowed to appeal? Perhaps they thought—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The scent rolled over him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Overhead, a lilac tree was in bloom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Damn! Damn! <em class="calibre8">Damn!</em> Every year he forgot. Well, no. He never forgot. He just put the memories away, like old silverware that you didn't want to tarnish. And every year they came back, sharp and sparkling, and stabbed him in the heart. And today, of all days…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached up, and his hand trembled as he grasped a bloom and gently broke the stem. He sniffed at it. He stood for a moment, staring at nothing. And then he carried the sprig of lilac carefully back up to his dressing room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Willikins had prepared the <em class="calibre8">official</em> uniform for today. Sam Vimes stared at it blankly, and then remembered. Watch Committee. Right. The battered old breastplate wouldn't do, would it…Not for His Grace the Duke of Ankh, Commander of the City Watch, Sir Samuel Vimes. Lord Vetinari had been very <em class="calibre8">definite</em> about that, blast it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Blast it all the more because, unfortunately, Sam Vimes could see the point. He hated the official uniform, but he represented a bit more than just himself these days. Sam Vimes had been able to turn up for meetings with grubby armour, and even Sir Samuel Vimes could generally contrive to find a way to stay in street uniform at all times, but a Duke…well, a Duke needed a bit of polish. A Duke couldn't have the arse hanging out of his trousers when meeting foreign diplomats. Actually, even plain old Sam Vimes never had the arse hanging out of his trousers, either, but no one would have actually started a war if he had.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The plain old Sam Vimes had fought back. He got rid of most of the plumes and the stupid tights, and ended up with a dress uniform that at least looked as though its owner was male. But the helmet had gold decoration, and the bespoke armourers had made a new, gleaming breastplate with useless gold ornamentation on it. Sam Vimes felt like a class traitor every time he wore it. He hated being thought of as one of those people that wore stupid ornamental armour. It was gilt by association.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He twirled the sprig of lilac in his fingers, and smelled again the heady smell. Yes…it hadn't always been like this…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone had just spoken to him. He looked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” he barked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I enquired if her ladyship is well, your grace?” said the butler, looking startled. “Are you feeling all right, your grace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh, yes. No. I'm fine. So is her ladyship, yes, thank you. I popped in before I went outside. Mrs Content is with her. She says it won't be for a while.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have advised the kitchen to have plenty of hot water ready, your grace, nevertheless,” said Willikins, helping Vimes on with the gilty breastplate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Why do they need all that water, do you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I couldn't say, your grace,” said Willikins. “Probably best not to enquire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. Sybil had already made it quite clear, with gentle tact, that he was not required on this particular case. It had been, he had to admit, a bit of a relief.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He handed Willikins the sprig of lilac. The butler took it without comment, inserted it into a little silver tube of water that would keep it fresh for hours, and fixed it on to one of the breastplate straps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Time moves on, doesn't it, your grace,” he said, dusting him down with a small brush.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took out his watch. “It certainly does. Look, I'll drop in at the Yard on my way to the palace, sign what needs signing, and I'll be back as soon as possible, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Willikins gave him a look of almost unbutlery concern. “I'm sure her ladyship will be fine, your grace,” he said. “Of course she is not, not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—young,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I would say she is richer in years than many other primi-gravidae,” said Willikins smoothly. “But she is a well-built lady, if you don't mind me saying so, and her family have traditionally had very little trouble in the childbirth department—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Primi what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“New mothers, your grace. I'm sure her ladyship would much rather know that you were running after miscreants than wearing a hole in the library carpet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect you're right, Willikins. Er…oh, yes, there's a young lady dog-paddling in the old cesspit, Willikins.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good, your grace. I shall send the kitchen boy down there with a ladder directly. And a message to the Assassins' Guild?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good idea. She'll need clean clothes and a bath.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think, perhaps, the hose in the old scullery might be more appropriate, your grace? To start with, at least?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good point. See to it. And now I must be off.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36218691" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the crowded main office of the Pseudopolis Yard Watch House, Sergeant Colon absent-mindedly adjusted the sprig of lilac that he'd stuck into his helmet like a plume.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They go very strange, Nobby,” he said, leafing listlessly through the morning's paperwork. “It's a copper thing. Happened to me when I had kids. You get tough.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you mean, tough?” said Corporal Nobbs, possibly the best living demonstration that there was some smooth evolution between humans and animals.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We-ell,” said Colon, leaning back in his chair. “It's like…well, when you're our age…” He looked at Nobby, and hesitated. Nobby had been giving his age as “probably 34” for years; the Nobbs family were not good at keeping count.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, when a man reaches…a certain age,” he tried again, “he knows the world is never going to be perfect. He's got used to it being a bit, a bit…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Manky?” Nobby suggested. Tucked behind his ear, in the place usually reserved for his cigarette, was another wilting lilac flower.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly,” said Colon. “Like, it's never going to be perfect, so you just do the best you can, right? But when there's a kid on the way, well, suddenly a man sees it different. He thinks: my kid's going to have to <em class="calibre8">grow up</em> in this mess. Time to clean it up. Time to make it a Better World. He gets a bit…keen. Full of ginger. When he hears about Stronginthearm it's going to be very hot around here for—'morning, Mister Vimes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Talking about me, eh?” said Vimes, striding past them as they jerked to attention. He had not in fact heard any of the conversation, but Sergeant Colon's face could be read like a book and Vimes had learned it by heart years ago.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just wondering if the happy event—” Colon began, trailing after Vimes as he took the stairs two at a time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It hasn't,” said Vimes shortly. He pushed open the door to his office, “'morning, Carrot!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Carrot sprang to his feet and saluted. “'morning, sir! Has Lady—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, Carrot. She has not. What's been happening overnight?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's gaze went to the sprig of lilac, and back to Vimes's face. “Nothing good, sir,” he said. “Another officer killed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped dead. “Who?” he demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Stronginthearm, sir. Killed in Treacle Mine Road. Carcer again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at his watch. They had ten minutes to get to the palace. But time suddenly wasn't important any more.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down at his desk. “Witnesses?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Three this time, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That many?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All dwarfs. Stronginthearm wasn't even on duty, sir. He'd signed off and was picking up a rat pie and chips from a shop and walked out straight into Carcer. The devil stabbed him in the neck and ran for it. He must've thought we'd found him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've been looking for the man for <em class="calibre8">weeks</em>! And he bumped into poor old Stronginthearm when all the dwarf was thinking of was his breakfast? Is Angua on the trail?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Up to a point, sir,” said Carrot awkwardly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why only up to a point?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He—well, we assume it was Carcer—dropped an aniseed bomb in Sator Square. Almost pure oil.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. It was amazing how people adapted. The Watch had a werewolf. That news had got around, in an underground kind of way. And so the criminals had evolved to survive in a society where the law had a very sensitive nose. Scent bombs were the solution. They didn't have to be <em class="calibre8">that</em> dramatic. You just dropped a little flask of pure peppermint or aniseed in the street where a lot of people would walk over it, and suddenly Sergeant Angua was facing a hundred, a <em class="calibre8">thousand</em> criss-crossing trails, and went to bed with a terrible headache.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He listened glumly as Carrot reported on men brought off leave or put on double shift, on informers pumped, pigeons stooled, grasses rustled, fingers held to the wind, ears put on the street. And he knew how little it all added up to. They still had fewer than a hundred men in the Watch, and that was including the canteen lady. There were a million people in the city, and a billion places to hide. Ankh-Morpork was <em class="calibre8">built</em> of bolt-holes. Besides, Carcer was a nightmare.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was used to the other kinds of nut jobs, the ones that acted quite normally right up to the point where they hauled off and smashed someone with a poker for blowing their nose noisily. But Carcer was different. He was in two minds, but instead of them being in conflict, they were in competition. He had a demon on <em class="calibre8">both</em> shoulders, urging one another on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And yet…he smiled all the time, in a cheerful chirpy sort of way, and he acted like the kind of rascal who made a dodgy living selling gold watches that go green after a week. And he appeared to be convinced, utterly convinced, that he never did anything really wrong. He'd stand there amid the carnage, blood on his hands and stolen jewellery in his pocket, and with an expression of injured innocence declare, “Me? What did <em class="calibre8">I</em> do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And it was believable right up until you looked hard into those cheeky, smiling eyes, and saw, deep down, the demons looking back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…but you mustn't spend too much time looking at those eyes, because that'd mean you'd taken <em class="calibre8">your</em> eyes off his hands, and by now one of them held a knife.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was hard for the average copper to deal with people like that. They expected people, when heavily outnumbered, to give in or try to deal or at least just <em class="calibre8">stop moving</em>. They didn't expect people to kill for a five-dollar watch. (A hundred dollar watch, now, that'd be different. This was Ankh-Morpork, after all.)</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was Stronginthearm married?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. Lived in New Cobblers with his parents.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Parents, thought Vimes. That made it worse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyone been to tell them?” he asked. “And don't say it was Nobby. We don't want any repeat of that ‘bet you a dollar you're the widow Jackson’ nonsense.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I went, sir. As soon as we got the news.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you. They took it badly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They took it…solemnly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes groaned. He could imagine the expressions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll write them the official letter,” he said, pulling open his desk. “Get someone to take it round, will you? And say I'll be over later. Perhaps this isn't the time to—” No, hold on, they were dwarfs, dwarfs weren't bashful about money. “Forget that—say we'll have all the details of his pension and so on. Died on duty, too. Well, near enough. That's extra. It all adds up.” He rummaged in his cupboards. “Where's his file?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, sir,” said Carrot, handing it over smoothly. “We are due at the palace at ten, sir. Watch Committee. But I'm sure they'll understand,” he added, seeing Vimes's face. “I'll go and clean out Stronginthearm's locker, sir, and I expect the lads'll have a whip-round for flowers and everything…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pondered over a sheet of headed paper after the captain had gone. A file, he had to refer to a damn <em class="calibre8">file</em>. But there were so many coppers these days…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">A whip-round for flowers. And a coffin. You look after your own. Sergeant Dickins had said that, a long time ago…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wasn't good with words, least of all ones written down, but after a few glances at the file to refresh his memory he wrote down the best he could think of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And they were all good words and, more or less, they were the right ones. But in truth Stronginthearm was just a decent dwarf who'd been paid to be a copper. He'd joined up because, these days, joining the Watch was quite a good choice of career. The pay wasn't bad, there was a worthwhile pension, there was a wonderful medical scheme if you had the nerve to submit to Igor's ministrations in the cellar and, after a year or so, an Ankh-Morpork trained copper could leave the city and get a job in the Watches of the other cities on the plain with instant promotion. That was happening all the time. Sammies, they were called, even in towns that had never heard of Sam Vimes. He was just a little proud of that. “Sammies” meant watchmen who could think without their lips moving, who didn't take bribes—much, and then only at the level of beer and doughnuts, which even Vimes recognized as the grease that helps the wheels run smoothly—and were, on the whole, trustworthy. For a given value of “trust”, at least.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sound of running feet indicated that Sergeant Detritus was bringing some of the latest trainees back from their morning run. He could hear the jody Detritus had taught them. Somehow, you could tell it was made up by a troll:</div>
      <blockquote class="calibre10">
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Now we sing dis stupid song!</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
          
            <em class="calibre8">Sing it as we run along!</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
          
            <em class="calibre8">Why we sing dis we don't know!</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
          
            <em class="calibre8">We can't make der words rhyme prop'ly!”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Sound off!”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“One! Two!”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Sound off!”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Many! Lots!”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Sound off.”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
        
          
            <em class="calibre8">“Er…what?”</em>
          <br class="calibre9"/>
        <br class="calibre9"/>
      </blockquote>
      <div class="paragraph">It still irked Vimes that the little training school in the old lemonade factory was turning out so many coppers who quit the city the moment their probation was up. But it had its advantages. There were Sammies almost as far as Uberwald now, all speeding up the local promotion ladder. It helped, knowing names, and knowing that those names had been taught to salute him. The ebb and flow of politics often meant that the local rulers weren't talking to one another, but via the semaphore towers, the Sammies talked <em class="calibre8">all the time</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He realized he was humming a different song under his breath. It was a tune he'd forgotten for years. It went with the lilac, scent and song together. He stopped, feeling guilty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was finishing the letter when there was a knock at the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nearly done!” he shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It'th me, thur,” said Constable Igor, pushing his head round the door, and then he added, “Igor, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Igor?” said Vimes, wondering not for the first time why anyone with stitches all round his head needed to tell anyone who he was.<a href="#_ftn1" title="1. The Igor employed by the Watch as forensic specialist and medical aide was quite young (in so far as you could tell with an Igor, since useful limbs and other organs were passed on among Igors as others might hand on a pocket watch) and very modern in his thinking. He had a DA haircut with extended quiff, wore crepe soles and sometimes forgot to lisp."><sup class="calibre11">1</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I would just like to thay, sir, that I could have got young Thtronginthearm back on his feet, thur,” said Igor, a shade reproachfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. Igor's face was full of concern, tinged with disappointment. He had been prevented from plying his…craft. He was naturally disappointed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've been through this, Igor. It's not like sewing a leg back on. And dwarfs are dead set against that sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's nothing thupernatural about it, thur. I am a man of Natural Philothophy! And he was still warm when they brought him in—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Those are the rules, Igor. Thanks all the same. We know your heart is in the right place—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">They</em> are in the right <em class="calibre8">places</em>, sir,” said Igor reproachfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what I meant,” Vimes said, without missing a beat, just as Igor never did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, very well, sir,” said Igor, giving up. He paused, and then said: “How is her ladyship, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had been expecting this. It was a terrible thing for a mind to do, but his had already presented him with the idea of Igor and Sybil in the same sentence. Not that he disliked Igor. Quite the reverse. There were watchmen walking around the streets right now who wouldn't have legs if it wasn't for Igor's genius with a needle. But—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine. She's fine,” he said abruptly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only I heard that Mrs Content was a bit worr—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Igor, there are some areas where…Look, do you know <em class="calibre8">anything</em> about…women and babies?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not in so many wordth, sir, but I find that once I've got someone on the slab and had a good, you know, rummage around, I can thort out most thingth—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's imagination actually shut down at this point.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, Igor,” he managed, without his voice trembling, “but Mrs Content is a very experienced midwife.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Jutht as you say, sir,” said Igor, but doubt rode on the words.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now I've got to go,” said Vimes. “It's going to be a long day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ran down the stairs, tossed the letter to Sergeant Colon, nodded to Carrot and they set off at a fast walk for the palace.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After the door had shut one of the watchmen looked up from the desk where he'd been wrestling with a report and the effort of writing down, as policemen do, what ought to have happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Corporal Ping?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why're some of you wearing purple flowers, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a subtle change in the atmosphere, a suction of sound caused by many pairs of ears listening intently. All the officers in the room had stopped writing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, I saw you and Reg and Nobby wearing 'em this time last year, and I wondered if we were all supposed to…” Ping faltered. Sergeant Colon's normally amiable eyes had narrowed and the message they were sending was: you're on thin ice, lad, and it's starting to creak…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, my landlady's got a garden and I could easily go and cut a—” Ping went on, in an uncharacteristic attempt at suicide.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd wear the lilac today, would you?” said Colon quietly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just meant that if you wanted me to I could go and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Were <em class="calibre8">you</em> there?” said Colon, getting to his feet so fast that his chair fell over.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Steady, Fred,” murmured Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't mean—” Ping began. “I mean…was I where, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon leaned on the desk, bringing his round red face an inch away from Ping's nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you don't know where <em class="calibre8">there</em> was, you weren't there,” he said, in the same quiet voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood up straight again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now me an' Nobby has got a job to do,” he said. “At ease, Ping. We are going <em class="calibre8">out</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This was not being a good day for Corporal Ping.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Yes?</em>” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…standing orders, sarge…you're the ranking officer, you see, and I'm orderly officer for the day, I wouldn't ask otherwise but…if you're going out, sarge, you've got to tell me where you're going. Just in case anyone has to contact you, see? I got to write it down in the book. In pen and everything,” he added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know what day it is, Ping?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…twenty-fifth of May, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you know what that means, Ping?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It means,” said Nobby, “that anyone important enough to ask where we're going—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—knows where we've gone,” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door slammed behind them.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36219299" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cemetery of Small Gods was for the people who didn't know what happened next. They didn't know what they believed in or if there was life after death and, often, they didn't know what hit them. They'd gone through life being amiably uncertain, until the ultimate certainty had claimed them at the last. Among the city's bone orchards the cemetery was the equivalent of the drawer marked misc, where people were interred in the glorious expectation of nothing very much.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Most of the Watch got buried there. Policemen, after a few years, found it hard enough to believe in people, let alone anyone they couldn't see.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For once, it wasn't raining. The breeze shook the sooty poplars around the wall, making them rustle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We ought to have brought some flowers,” said Colon, as they made their way through the long grass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could nick a few off some of the fresh graves, sarge,” Nobby volunteered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not the kind of thing I want to hear you saying at this time, Nobby,” said Colon severely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At a time like this a man ought to be thinking of his immortal soul viz ah viz the endless mighty river that is History. I should do that, if I was you. Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sarge. Will do. I see someone's doing it already, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Up against one wall, lilac trees were growing. That is, at some point in the past a lilac had been planted there, and had given rise, as lilac will, to hundreds of whippy suckers, so that what had once been one stem was now a thicket. Every branch was covered in pale mauve blooms.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The graves were still just visible in the tangled vegetation. In front of them stood Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler, Ankh-Morpork's least successful businessman, with a sprig of lilac in his hat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He caught sight of the watchmen and nodded to them. They nodded back. All three stood looking down at the seven graves. Only one had been maintained. The marble headstone on that one was shiny and moss-free, the turf was clipped, the stone border was sparkling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Moss had grown over the wooden markers of the other six, but it had been scraped off the central one, revealing the name:</div>
      <br class="calibre9"/>
      <blockquote class="calibre10">
        <div class="paragraph">John Keel</div>
      </blockquote>
      <br class="calibre9"/>
      <div class="paragraph">And carved underneath, by someone who had taken some pains, was:</div>
      <br class="calibre9"/>
      <blockquote class="calibre10">
        <div class="paragraph">How Do They Rise Up</div>
      </blockquote>
      <br class="calibre9"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A huge wreath of lilac flowers, bound with purple ribbon, had been placed on the grave. On top of it, tied round with another piece of purple ribbon, was an egg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mrs Palm and Mrs Battye and some of the girls were up here earlier,” said Dibbler. “And of course Madam always makes sure there's the egg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's nice, the way they always remember,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The three stood in silence. They were not, on the whole, men with a vocabulary designed for times like this. After a while, though, Nobby felt moved to speak.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He gave me a spoon once,” he said, to the air in general.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I know,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My dad pinched it off me when he come out of prison, but it was my spoon,” said Nobby persistently. “That means a lot to a kid, your own spoon.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come to that, he was the first person to make me a sergeant,” said Colon. “Got busted again, of course, but I knew I could do it again then. He was a good copper.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He bought a pie off me, first week I was starting out,” said Dibbler. “Ate it <em class="calibre8">all</em>. Didn't spit out <em class="calibre8">anything</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while Sergeant Colon cleared his throat, a general signal to indicate that some sort of appropriate moment was now over. There was a general relaxation of muscles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Y'know, we ought to come up here one day with a billhook and clear this lot up a bit,” said the sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You always say that, sarge, every year,” said Nobby as they walked away. “And we never do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If I had a dollar for every copper's funeral I've attended up here,” said Colon, “I'd have…nineteen dollars and fifty pence.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fifty pence?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was when Corporal Hildebiddle woke up just in time and banged on the lid,” said Colon. “Before your time, o'course. Everyone said it was an amazin' recovery.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Mr Sergeant?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The three men turned. Coming towards them in a high-speed sidle was the black-clad, skinny figure of Legitimate First, the cemetery's resident gravedigger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon sighed. “Yes, Leggie?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morrow, sweet—” the gravedigger began, but Sergeant Colon waved a finger at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop that right now,” he said. “You know you've been warned before. None of that ‘comic gravedigger’ stuff. It's not funny and it's not clever. Just say what you've got to say. No silly bits.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leggie looked crestfallen. “Well, good sirs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leggie, I've known you for years,” said Colon wearily. “Just <em class="calibre8">try</em>, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The deacon wants them graves dug up, Fred,” said Leggie in a sulky voice. “It's been more'n thirty years. Long past time they was in the crypts—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I've got a nice shelf for 'em down there, Fred,” Leggie pleaded. “Right up near the front. We need the <em class="calibre8">space</em>, Fred! It's standing room only in here, and that's the truth! Even the worms have to go in single file! Right up near the front, Fred, where I can chat to 'em when I'm having my tea. How about that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen and Dibbler shared a glance. Most people in the city had been into Leggie's crypts, if only for a dare. And it had come as a shock to most of them to realize that solemn burial was not for eternity but only for a handful of years so that, in Leggie's words, “my little wriggly helpers” could do their work. After that, the <em class="calibre8">last</em> last resting place was the crypts, and an entry in the huge ledgers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leggie lived down there in the crypts. As he said, he was the only one who did, and he liked the company.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leggie was generally considered weird, but conscientiously so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This isn't your idea, right?” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leggie looked down at his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The new deacon's a bit, well, new,” he said. “You know…keen. Making changes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You told him <em class="calibre8">why</em> they're not being dug up?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He said that's just ancient history,” said Leggie. “He says we all have to put the past behind us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An' did you tell him he should take it up with Vetinari?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, and he said he was sure his lordship was a forward-thinking man who wouldn't cling to relics of the past,” said Leggie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sounds like he is new,” said Dibbler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” said Nobby. “An' not likely to get old. It's okay, Leggie, you can say you've asked us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The gravedigger looked relieved. “Thanks, Nobby,” he said. “And I'd just like to say that when your time comes, gents, you'll be on a good shelf with a view. I've put your names down in my ledger for them as comes after me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that's, er, very kind of you, Leggie,” said Colon, wondering if it was. Because of pressure of space, bones in the crypt were stored by size, not by owner. There were rooms of ribs. There were avenues of femurs. And shelf after shelf of skulls up near the entrance, of course, because a crypt without a lot of skulls wasn't a proper crypt at all. If some of the religions were right and there really was bodily resurrection one day, Fred mused, there was going to be an awful lot of confusion and general milling about.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've got just the spot—” Leggie began, and then stopped. He pointed angrily towards the entrance. “You know what I said about him coming up here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They turned. Corporal Reg Shoe, a whole bouquet of lilac tied to his helmet, was walking solemnly up the gravel path. He had a long-handled shovel over his shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's only Reg,” said Fred. “He's got a right to be here, Leggie. You know that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a dead man! I'm not havin' a dead man in my cemetery!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's full of 'em, Leggie,” said Dibbler, trying to calm the man down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but the rest of 'em don't walk in and out!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, Leggie, you act like this every year,” said Fred Colon. “He can't help the way he was killed. Just because you're a zombie doesn't mean you're a bad person. He's a useful lad, Reg. Plus it'd be a lot neater up here if everyone looked after their plots like he does, 'morning, Reg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe, grey-faced but smiling, nodded at the four of them and strolled on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And bringing his own shovel, too,” muttered Leggie. “It's disgusting!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've always thought it was rather, you know, nice of him to do what he does,” said Fred. “You let him alone, Leggie. If you start throwing stones at him like you did the year before last Commander Vimes'll get to hear about it and there'll be trouble. Be told. You're a good man with a, a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—cadaver,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but…well, Leggie, you weren't there,” said Colon. “That's the start and finish of it. Reg was. That's all there is to it, Leggie. If you weren't there, you don't understand. Now you just run along and count the skulls again, I know you like that. Cheerio, Leggie.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Legitimate First watched them go as they walked away. Sergeant Colon felt he was being measured up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've always wondered about his name,” said Nobby, turning and waving. “I mean…Legitimate?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't blame a mother for being proud, Nobby,” said Colon.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377074" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What else should I know today?” said Vimes, as he and Carrot shouldered their way through the streets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've had a letter from the Black Ribboners<a href="#_ftn2" title="2. The Uberwald League of Temperance, made up of former vampires who now wore black ribbons to show that they had completely sworn off the sticky stuff, my vord yes, and much preferred a good singsong and a healthy game of table-tennis."><sup class="calibre11">2</sup></a>, sir, suggesting that it would be a great step forward for species harmony in the city if you'd see your way clear to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They want a vampire in the Watch?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. I believe many members of the Watch Committee think that despite your stated reservations it would be a good—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Does it look to you as if my body is dead?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then the answer's no. What else?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot riffled through a stuffed clipboard as he half ran to keep up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">The Times</em> says Borogravia has invaded Mouldavia,” he announced.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that good? I can't remember where it is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Both formerly part of the Dark Empire, sir. Right next door to Uberwald.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose side are we on?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">The Times</em> said we should be supporting little Mouldavia against the aggressor, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I like Borogravia already,” snapped Vimes. <em class="calibre8">The Times</em> had printed, in his opinion, a particularly unflattering cartoon of him the previous week, and to make matters worse Sybil had requested the original and had had it framed. “And what does this all mean to us?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably more refugees, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ye gods, we've got no more room! Why do they keep coming here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In search of a better life, sir, I think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A <em class="calibre8">better</em> life?” said Vimes. “<em class="calibre8">Here?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think things are worse where they come from, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind of refugees are we talking about here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mostly human, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you mean that most of them will be human, or that each individual will be <em class="calibre8">mostly</em> human?” said Vimes. After a while in Ankh-Morpork, you learned how to phrase that kind of question.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, apart from humans the only species I've heard of there in any numbers are the kvetch, sir. They live in the deep woods and are covered in hair.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, we'll probably find out more about them when we're asked to employ one in the Watch,” said Vimes sourly. “What else?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rather hopeful news, sir,” said Carrot, smiling. “You know the Hooms? The street gang?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They've initiated their first troll member.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? I thought they went around beating up trolls! I thought that was the whole <em class="calibre8">point</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, apparently young Calcite likes beating up trolls, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that's good?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In a way, sir, I suppose it's a step forward.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“United in hatred, you mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose so, sir,” said Carrot. He flicked papers back and forth on his clipboard. “Now, what else have I got? Oh, yes, the river patrol boat has sunk again—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Where did I go wrong? thought Vimes as the litany went on. I was a copper once. A real copper. I chased people. I was a hunter. It was what I did best. I knew where I was anywhere in the city by the feel of the street under my boots. And now look at me! A Duke! Commander of the Watch! A political animal! I have to know about who's fighting who a thousand miles away, just in case that's going to mean riots here!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When did I last go on patrol? Last week? Last month? And it's never a proper point patrol, 'cos the sergeants make damn sure everyone knows I've left the building and every damn constable reeks of armour polish and has had a shave by the time I get there, even if I nip down the back streets (and that thought, at least, was freighted with a little pride, because it showed he didn't employ <em class="calibre8">stupid</em> sergeants). I never stand all night in the rain, or fight for my life rolling in the gutter with some thug, and I never move above a walk. That's all been taken away. And for what?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Comfort, power, money and a wonderful wife…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…er…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…which was a <em class="calibre8">good</em> thing, <em class="calibre8">of course</em>, but…even so…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Damn. But I'm not a copper any more, I'm a, a manager. I have to talk to the damn committee as if they're children. I go to receptions and wear damn stupid toy armour. It's all politics and paperwork. It's all got <em class="calibre8">too big</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What has happened to the days when it was all so simple?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Faded like the lilac, he thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They entered the palace and went up the main stairs to the Oblong Office.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician of Ankh-Morpork was standing looking out of the window when they entered. The room was otherwise deserted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Vimes,” he said, without turning round. “I thought you might be late. In the circumstances, I dismissed the committee. They were sorry, as indeed was I, to hear about Stronginthearm. No doubt you have been writing the official letter.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes flashed a questioning expression at Carrot, who rolled his eyes and shrugged. Vetinari found things out very quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, that's right,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And on such a beautiful day as this, too,” said Vetinari. “Although there's a storm heading our way, I see.” He turned. He had a sprig of lilac pinned to his robe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady Sybil is doing well?” he said, sitting down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You tell me,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some things can't be hurried, no doubt,” said Vetinari smoothly, shuffling the papers. “Let me see now, let me see, there were just a few points that I should deal with…ah, the regular letter from our religious friends at the Temple of Small Gods.” He carefully removed it from the pile and set it to one side. “I think I shall invite the new deacon to tea and explain matters to him. Now, where was I…ah, the political situation in—yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened. Drumknott, the chief clerk, came in.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Message for his grace,” he said, although he handed it to Lord Vetinari. The Patrician passed it, very politely, across the desk. Vimes unfolded it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's off the clacks!” he yelled. “We've got Carcer cornered in New Hall! I've got to get down there <em class="calibre8">now</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How exciting,” said Lord Vetinari, standing up suddenly. “The call to the chase. But is it necessary for you to attend personally, your grace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave him a grey look. “<em class="calibre8">Yes</em>,” he said. “Because if I don't, y'see, some poor sod who's been trained by me to do the right thing is going to try to <em class="calibre8">arrest</em> the bugger.” He turned to Carrot. “Captain, get on it right now! Clacks, pigeons, runners, whatever. I want <em class="calibre8">everyone</em> answering this shout, okay? But <em class="calibre8">no one</em>, I repeat, no one is to try to tackle him without a lot of backup! Understood? And get Swires airborne! Oh, <em class="calibre8">damn</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's wrong, sir?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This message is from Littlebottom. She sent it straight here. What's she doing there? She's Forensic. She's not street! She'll do it by the book!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shouldn't she?” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. Carcer needs an arrow in his leg just to get his attention. You shoot first—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and ask questions later?” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes paused at the door and said, “There's nothing I want to ask him.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377405" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had to slow down for breath in Sator Square, and that was disgusting. A few years ago he'd've only really been getting into his stride by now! But the storm rolling over the plains was driving the heat before it, and it wouldn't do for the commander to turn up wheezing. As it was, even after pausing behind a street market stall for a few gulps of air, he doubted if he had enough wind left for a lengthy sentence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To his tremendous relief, an entirely unwounded Corporal Cheery Littlebottom was waiting by the University walls. She saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Reporting, sir,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mm,” murmured Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I spotted a couple of trolls on traffic duty, sir,” said Cheery, “so I've sent them round to the Water Bridge. Then Sergeant Detritus turned up and I told—I <em class="calibre8">advised</em> him to go into the University via main gate and get up high. Sergeant Colon and Nobby arrived and I sent them along to the Bridge of Size—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because I doubt if he's really going to try going that way,” said Cheery, her face a very careful picture of innocence. Vimes had to stop himself from nodding. “And then as more people come along I'm putting them around the perimeter. But I think he's gone up and he's staying high.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because how's he going to fight his way out through a lot of wizards, sir? His best chance is to sneak around on the roofs and drop down somewhere quiet. There's a lot of hiding places and he can get all the way to Peach Pie Street without coming down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Forensic, thought Vimes. Hah. And with any luck he doesn't know about Buggy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well thought out,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, sir. Would you mind standing a bit closer to this wall, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something shattered on the cobbles. Vimes was suddenly flat against the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's got a crossbow, sir,” said Cheery. “We think he stole it from Stronginthearm. But he's not very good with it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, corporal,” said Vimes weakly. “Good job,” he glanced around the square behind him. The wind was whipping at the awnings of the market stalls and the traders, with occasional looks at the sky, were covering their wares.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we can't just let him hang around up there,” he went on. “He'll start taking pot shots and he's bound to hit <em class="calibre8">someone</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why would he do that, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carcer doesn't need a reason,” said Vimes. “He just needs an excuse.” A movement far above caught his eye, and he grinned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A large bird was gaining height over the city.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377501" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The heron, mumbling complaints, fought for altitude in big, sweeping circles. The city whirled around Corporal Buggy Swires as he gripped even harder with his knees, and then he swung the bird downwind and it landed with a staggering run on the top of the Tower of Art, the highest building in the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a practised movement the gnome sliced through the string holding the portable semaphore in place, and leapt down after it into the compost of ivy leaves and old ravens' nests that carpeted the top of the tower.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The heron watched him with round-eyed stupidity. Buggy had tamed it in the usual gnome way; you painted yourself green like a frog and hung out in the marshes, croaking, and then when a heron tried to eat you, you ran up its beak and nutted it. By the time it came round you'd blown the special oil—that had taken all day to make, and the stink of it had emptied the Watch House—up its nostrils and it took one look at you and thought you were its mum.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A heron was useful. It could carry equipment. But Buggy preferred a sparrowhawk for traffic patrol. It was better for hovering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He slotted the portable semaphore arms on to the post he'd secretly installed weeks ago. Then he unshipped a tiny telescope from the heron's saddlebags and strapped it on to the edge of the stone, looking almost straight down. Buggy liked moments like this. It was the only time that everyone else was smaller than him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now…let's see what we can see,” he muttered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were the University buildings. There was the clock tower of Old Tom, and the unmistakable bulk of Sergeant Detritus climbing among the nearby chimneys. The yellow light of the gathering storm glinted off the helmets of watchmen who were hurrying through the streets. And there, creeping along behind the parapet…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gotcha,” he said quietly, and reached for the handles of the semaphore.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377553" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D…T…R…T…S space H…D…N…G space O…L space T…M,” said Cheery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. Detritus was on the roof near the tower of Old Tom. And Detritus carried a siege crossbow that three men couldn't lift, and had converted it to fire a thick sheaf of arrows all at once. Mostly they shattered in the air because of the forces involved and the target was hit by an expanding cloud of burning splinters. Vimes had banned him from using it on people, but it was a damn good way of getting into buildings. It could open the front door and the back door at the same time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell him to fire a warning shot,” he said. “If he hits Carcer with that thing we won't even find a corpse.” Though I'd quite like to find a corpse, he added to himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.” Cheery pulled a couple of white-painted paddles out of her belt, sighted on the top of the tower, and sent a brief signal. There was an answering signal from the distant Buggy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D…T…R…T…S space W…R…N…G space S…H…T,” Cheery muttered to herself, as she waved the rest of the message.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was another answering dip from above. A moment later a red flare shot up from the top of the tower and exploded. It was an efficient way of getting everyone to pay attention. Then Vimes saw the message relayed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Around the University buildings, watchmen who'd also seen the order ducked into doorways. They knew about the bow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a few seconds for the troll to work out the spelling, a distant heavy thud, a sound like a swarm of hellish bees, and then a crash of tiles and masonry. Pieces of tile rained down into the square. An entire chimney, still with a wisp of smoke coming from it, smashed down a few yards from where Vimes was standing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then there was the patter of dust and small bits of wood, and a gentle shower of pigeon feathers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook some flakes of mortar off his helmet. “Yes, well, I think he's been warned,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Half a weathercock landed next to the chimney.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cheery blew some feathers off her telescope and sighted on the top of the tower again. “Buggy says he's stopped moving, sir,” she reported.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? You surprise me.” Vimes adjusted his belt. “And now you can give me your crossbow. I'm going up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir, you said no one was to try to arrest him! That's why I sent the signal to you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right. <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> going to arrest him. Right now. While he's counting all his bits to check that he's still got 'em. Tell Detritus what I'm doing, 'cos I don't want to end up as 160lbs of cocktail delicacies. No, don't keep opening your mouth like that. By the time we've sorted out backup and armour and got everyone lined up he'll have dug in somewhere else.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The last words were delivered at a run.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached a door and darted inside. New Hall was student accommodation, but it was still only half past ten so most of them would be in bed. A few faces looked around doors as Vimes trotted along the corridor and reached the stairwell at the far end. That took him—walking now, and rather less sure of his future—to the top floor. Let's see, he'd been here before…yes, there was a door ajar, and a glimpse of mops and buckets suggested that this was a janitor's cupboard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With, at the far end, a ladder leading up to the roof.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes carefully cocked the crossbow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So Carcer had a Watch crossbow, too. They were good classic single-shot models, but they took a while to reload. If he fired at Vimes and missed, then that was the only shot he'd get. After that…you couldn't plan.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes climbed the ladder, and the song came back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They rise <em class="calibre8">feet</em> up, <em class="calibre8">feet</em> up, <em class="calibre8">feet</em> up…” he hissed under his breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped just below the edge of the open trapdoor on to the leads. Carcer wouldn't fall for the old “helmet on stick” trick, not with only one shot available. He'd just have to risk it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thrust his head up, turned it quickly, ducked out of sight for a moment and then came through the opening in a rush. He rolled clumsily when he hit the leads, and rose into a crouch. There was no one else there. He was still alive. He breathed out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A sloping, gabled roof rose up beside him. Vimes crept along, wedged himself against a chimneystack peppered with splinters of wood, and glanced up at the tower.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sky above it was livid blue-black. Storms picked up a lot of personality as they rolled across the plains, and this one looked like a record breaker. But brilliant sunlight picked out the Tower of Art and, at the top, the tiny dots of Buggy's frantic signal…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">O…O…O…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Officer In Trouble. A brother is hurtin'.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes spun around. There was no one creeping up on him. He eased himself around the chimneys and there, tucked between another couple of stacks and out of sight of everyone except Vimes and the celestial Buggy, was Carcer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was taking aim.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned his head to spot the target.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fifty yards away, Carrot was picking his way across the top of the University's High Energy Magic building.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The bloody fool was never any good at concealment. Oh, he ducked and crept, and against all logic that made him more noticeable. He didn't understand the art of thinking himself invisible. And there he was, furtively shlepping through the debris on the roof and looking as visible as a big duck in a small bathtub. And he'd come up without backup.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The fool…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer was aiming carefully. The roof of the HEM was a maze of abandoned equipment and Carrot was moving along behind the raised platform that held the huge bronze spheres known throughout the city as The Wizards' Balls, which discharged surplus magic if—or more usually when—experiments in the hall below fouled up. Carrot, screened by all that, was not making such a good target.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised his crossbow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Thunder…rolled. It was the roll of a giant iron cube down the stairways of the gods, a crackling, thudding crash that tore the sky in half and shook the building.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer glanced up, and saw Vimes.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377762" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wotcha doin', mifter?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Buggy didn't budge from the telescope. A crowbar wouldn't have separated him at this point.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up, ye daft corbies!” he muttered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Both men below had fired, and both men had missed because they were trying to fire and dodge at the same time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something hard prodded Buggy's shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wot's <em class="calibre8">happ'nin'</em>, mifter?” said the insistent voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned. There were a dozen bedraggled ravens behind him, looking like old men in ill-fitting black cloaks. They were Tower of Art birds. Hundreds of generations of living in a highly charged magical environment had raised the intelligence level of what had been bright creatures to begin with. But, although the ravens were intelligent, these ones weren't hugely clever. They just had a more persistent kind of stupidity, as befitted birds for whom the exciting panorama of the city below was a kind of daytime TV.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Push <em class="calibre8">off</em>!” shouted Buggy, and turned back to the telescope. There was Carcer, running, and Vimes running after him, and <em class="calibre8">here came the hail…</em></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It turned the world white. It thudded around him and made his helmet ring. Hailstones as big as his head bounced on the stone and hit Buggy from underneath. Cursing, and shielding his face with his arms, and hammered all the time by shattering crystal balls, each one predicting a future of pain, he skidded and slid across the rolling ice. He reached an ivy-hung arch between two lesser turrets, where the heron had already taken refuge, and fell inside. Frozen shrapnel still ricocheted in and stung him, but at least he could see and breathe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A beak prodded him sharply in the back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wot's happ'nin' <em class="calibre8">now</em>, mifter?”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36377828" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer landed heavily on the arch between the student hall and the main buildings, almost lost his footing on the tiles, and hesitated. An arrow from a watchman below grazed his leg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dropped down behind him, just as the hail hit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cursing and slipping, one man followed the other across the arch. Carcer reached a mass of ivy that led up on to the roof of the Library and scrambled up it, scattering ice below.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes grabbed the ivy just as Carcer disappeared on to the flat roof. He looked round at a crash behind him, and saw Carrot trying to make his way along the wall from the High Energy Magic building. The hail was forming a halo of ice fragments around him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stay there!” Vimes bellowed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's reply was lost in the noise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes waved his arms and then grabbed at the ivy as a foot slipped. “Bloody stay <em class="calibre8">there</em>!” he yelled. “That is an <em class="calibre8">order</em>! You'll go over!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and started up the wet, cold vines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The wind dropped, and the last few hailstones bounced off the roof.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped a few feet from the top of the ivy, worked his feet firmly into footholds in the ancient, knotted stems, and reached up for a decent hold.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he thrust himself up, left hand ready, caught the boot that swung towards him and carried on rising, pushing Carcer off balance. The man sprawled backwards on the slippery hail, tried to get to his feet, and slipped again. Vimes tugged himself on to the roof, stepped forward, and found his legs skidding away beneath him. Both he and Carcer got up, tried to move, and fell over again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">From a prone position the man landed a kick on Vimes's shoulder, sending both of them sliding away in opposite directions, and then turned over and scuttled on all fours around the Library's big glass and metal dome. He grabbed the rusty frame, hauled himself upright, and pulled out a knife.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come and get me, then,” he said. There was another roll of thunder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to,” said Vimes. “I just have to wait.” At least until I get my breath back, he thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why're you picking on me? What'm I supposed to have done?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couple of murders ring a bell?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If injured innocence was money, Carcer's face was his fortune. “I don't know anything about—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not up here to play games, Carcer. Knock it off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You going to take me alive, your grace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, I don't want to. But people think it's neater all round if I do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a clattering of tiles away on the left, and a thud as a huge siege bow was rested on the ridge of a nearby roof. The head of Detritus rose behind it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry about dat, Mister Vimes, hard to climb up in dat hail. Jus' stand back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're going to let it <em class="calibre8">shoot</em> me?” said Carcer. He tossed the knife away. “An unarmed man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Trying to escape,” said Vimes. But this was starting to go bad. He could feel it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? I'm just standing here, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And there it was. That bloody laugh, on top of that damn grin. It was never far away. “Haha” didn't come close to doing it the injustice it deserved. It was more a sort of modulation to the voice, an irritatingly patronizing chortle that suggested that all this was somehow <em class="calibre8">funny</em> and you hadn't got the joke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Trouble was, you couldn't shoot someone for having an annoying laugh. And he was just standing there. If he ran, you could shoot him. Admittedly, it would be Detritus doing the shooting, and while with that bow it was <em class="calibre8">technically</em> possible to shoot to wound, the people you were wounding would probably be in the building next door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Carcer was just waiting there, insulting the world by his existence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In fact he wasn't merely standing there now. In one movement he'd swung himself on to the lower slopes of the Library's dome. The glass panes—at least, the glass panes that had survived the freak hail—creaked in the iron framework.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop right there!” Vimes bellowed. “And come down!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now <em class="calibre8">where</em> could I go?” said Carcer, grinning at him. “I'm just waiting for you to arrest me, right? Hey, I can see your house from up here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What's under the dome? thought Vimes. How high are the bookcases? There's other floors in the Library, aren't there? Like galleries? But you can definitely look up at the dome from the ground floor, right? If you were careful, could you swing on to a gallery from the edge of the dome? It'd be risky, but if a man knew he was going to swing <em class="calibre8">anyway</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Picking his way with care, he reached the edge of the dome. Carcer climbed up a little further.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I warn you, Carcer—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only high spirits, Mister Grace, haha! Can't blame a man for trying to enjoy his last few minutes of freedom, can you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">I can see your house from up here…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hauled himself on to the dome. Carcer cheered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, your Vimes!” he said, easing himself towards the top.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't mess me about, Carcer. It'll go badly for you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Badder than it's going to go anyway?” Carcer glanced down through a smashed pane. “Long way down, Mister Vimes. I reckon a man'd die instantly falling all that way, wouldn't he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced down, and Carcer leapt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It didn't go the way he'd planned. Vimes had been tensed for something like this. After a complicated moment, Carcer was lying on the iron latticework, one arm under him, the other outflung and being banged heavily on the metal by Vimes. The knife it had held skidded away down the dome.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gods, you must think I'm stupid,” Vimes growled. “You wouldn't throw away a knife. Carcer, if you didn't have another one!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's face was close to the man's now, close enough to look into the eyes above that chirpy grin and watch the demons waving.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're hurting me, and that's not allowed!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I wouldn't want anything to happen to you, Carcer,” said Vimes. “I want to see you in front of his lordship. I just want to hear you <em class="calibre8">admit</em> something for once. I just want to see that bloody cheeky grin wiped off your face. Sergeant Detritus!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sah!” shouted the troll, from his distant ridge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Make a signal. I want people up here now. Me and Carcer are just going to stay nice and quiet here, so's he doesn't try any tricks.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.” With another distant clatter of doomed tiles, the troll disappeared from view.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You shouldn't have sent Captain Carrot away,” muttered Carcer. “He doesn't like watchmen bullying innocent civilians—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is true that he has yet to master some of the finer details of de facto street policing,” said Vimes, maintaining his grip. “Anyway, I'm not hurting you, I'm protecting you. Wouldn't like you to fall all that way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Thunder rumbled again. The sky wasn't just storm-black now. There were pinks and purples in the clouds, as though they were bruised. Vimes could see the clouds moving like snakes in a sack, to an endless sullen rumbling. He wondered if the wizards had been messing about with the weather.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something was happening to the air. It tasted of burned metal and flints. A weathercock on top of the dome began to spin round and round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't think you was stupid, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” said Vimes, looking down suddenly. Carcer was smiling cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said I didn't think you was stupid, Mister Vimes. I know a clever copper like you'd think I'd got two knives.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right,” said Vimes. He could feel his hair trying to stand on end. Little blue caterpillars of light were crackling over the ironwork of the dome, and even over his armour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mister Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">What?</em>” Vimes snapped. Smoke was rising from the weathercock's bearings.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I got three knives, Mister Vimes,” said Carcer, bringing his arm up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lightning struck.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36378135" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Windows blew out and iron gutters melted. Roofs lifted into the air and settled again. Buildings shook.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But this storm had been blowing in from far across the plains, pushing the natural background magic ahead of it. It dumped it now, all in one go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They said afterwards that the bolt of lightning hit a clock-maker's shop in the Street of Cunning Artificers, stopping all the clocks at that instant. But that was nothing. In Baker Street a couple who had never met before became electrically attracted to one another and were forced to get married after two days for the sake of public decency. In the Assassins' Guild, the chief armourer became hugely, and since he was in the armoury at the time, <em class="calibre8">tragically</em> attractive to metal. Eggs fried in their baskets, apples roasted on the greengrocers' shelves. Candles lit themselves. Cartwheels exploded. And the ornate tin bath of the Archchancellor of Unseen University was lifted neatly off the floor, sizzled across his study and then flew off the balcony and on to the lawn in the octangle several storeys below, without spilling more than a cupful of suds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Archchancellor Mustrum Ridcully paused with his long-handled scrubbing brush hovering halfway down his back, and stared around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tiles smashed to the ground. Water boiled in the ornamental fountain near by.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ridcully ducked as a stuffed badger, the origin of which was never ascertained, flew across the lawn and smashed through a window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He winced as he was hit by a brief and inexplicable shower of small cogwheels, which pattered down all around him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stared as half a dozen watchmen dashed into the octangle and headed up the steps to the Library.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then, gripping the sides of the bath, the Archchancellor stood up. Foaming water cascaded off him, as it would off some ancient leviathan erupting from the abyssal sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mister _ Stibbons!” he bellowed, his voice bouncing off the imposing walls, “Where the _ is my _ <em class="calibre8">hat</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down again and waited.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a few minutes of silence, and then Ponder Stibbons, Head of Inadvisably Applied Magic and Praelector of Unseen University, came running out of the main door carrying Ridcully's pointy hat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Archchancellor snatched at it and rammed it on his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well,” he said, standing up again. “Now, will care to _ tell m _ at the _ is going on? And why _ Old Tom _ ing repeatedly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“_ been a _ of magic, sir! I _ someone up _ the mechanism!” Ponder shouted, above the sound-destroying silences.<a href="#_ftn3" title="3. Old Tom, the University's venerable clock, tolled not sounds but silences. They were not simply ordinary silences, but intervals of noise-absorbing nonsound that filled the world with loud soundlessness."><sup class="calibre11">3</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a dying metallic noise from the big clock tower. Ponder and Ridcully waited a few moments, but the city stayed full of normal noise, like the collapse of masonry and distant screams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Ridcully, as if grudgingly awarding the world a mark for trying. “What was that all about, Stibbons? And why are there policemen in the Library?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Big magical storm, sir. Several thousand gigathaums. I believe the Watch is chasing a criminal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, they can't just run in here without askin',” said Ridcully, stepping out of the bath and striding forward. “What do we pay our taxes for, after all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, we don't actually pay taxes, sir,” said Ponder, running after him. “The system is that we promise to pay taxes if the city ever asks us to, provided the city promises never to ask us, sir. We make a voluntary—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, at least we have an <em class="calibre8">arrangement</em>, Stibbons.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. May I point out that you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that means they have to ask <em class="calibre8">permission</em>. The essential decencies must be maintained,” said Ridcully firmly. “And I am the Master of this college!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On the subject of, er, decencies, sir, you are not in fact wearing—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ridcully strode through the open doors of the Library.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is going on here?” he demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen turned, and stared. A large blob of foam, which up until that point had been performing sterling service in the cause of the essential decencies, slipped slowly to the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?” he snapped. “Haven't you lot seen a wizard before?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A watchman snapped to attention and saluted. “Captain Carrot, sir. We've, er, never seen so <em class="calibre8">much</em> of a wizard, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ridcully gave him the slow blank stare used by those with acute uptake-grasping deficiency.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's he talkin' about, Stibbons?” he said out of the corner of his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're, er, insufficiently dressed, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? I've got my hat on, haven't I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hat = wizard, wizard = hat. Everything else is frippery. Anyway, I'm sure we're all men of the world,” Ridcully added, looking around. For the first time he took in other details about the watchmen. “And dwarfs of the world…ah…trolls of the world too, I see…and…women of the world too, I note…er…” The Archchancellor lapsed into a moment's silence, and then said, “Mr Stibbons?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you be so kind as to run up to my rooms and fetch my robe?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And, in the meantime, please be so good as to lend me your hat…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you do actually have your hat on, sir,” said Ponder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite so, quite so,” said Ridcully, slowly and carefully through his fixed grin. “And now, Mister Stibbons, in addition, right now, I wish you, in fact, to lend, to <em class="calibre8">me</em>, your <em class="calibre8">hat</em>, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh,” said Ponder. “Er…yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few minutes later a thoroughly clean and decent and clothed Archchancellor was standing in the very centre of the Library, staring up at the damaged dome, while beside him Ponder Stibbons—who for some reason had elected to continue to remain hatless, even though his hat had been handed back to him—stared glumly at some magical instruments.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing at all?” said Ridcully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook,” said the Librarian.<a href="#_ftn4" title="4. Who was an orangutan, changed from his former human shape as a result of a long-forgotten magical accident. It was so forgotten, in fact, that now people were forgetting he was an orangutan. This might seem quite hard to do, given that even a small orangutan is quite capable of filling all immediately available space, but to the wizards and most of the citizens he was now just the Librarian, and that was that. In fact, if someone ever reported that there was an orangutan in the Library, the wizards would probably go and ask the Librarian if he'd seen it."><sup class="calibre11">4</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've searched everywhere?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He can't search <em class="calibre8">everywhere</em> in this library, sir,” said Ponder. “That would take more time than actually could possibly exist. But all the mundane shelves, certainly. Um.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot turned to Ponder. “What was the ‘um’ for, please, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You understand that this is a magical library? And that means that even in normal circumstances there is an area of high magical potential above the bookshelves?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">have</em> been in here before,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you know that time with libraries is…somewhat more flexible?” said Ponder. “Given the additional power of the storm, it might just be possible that—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to tell me he's been moved in time?” said the watchman.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ponder was impressed. He hadn't been brought up to believe that watchmen were clever. However, he took care not to show it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would that it were that simple,” he said. “However, um, the lightning appears to have added a random lateral component—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A what?” said Ridcully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean in time <em class="calibre8">and</em> space?” said Carrot. Ponder felt himself getting rattled. Non-wizards shouldn't be that quick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not…<em class="calibre8">exactly</em>,” he said, and gave up. “I'm really going to have to work on this, Archchancellor. Some of the readings I'm getting can't possibly be real.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36378442" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes knew that he had woken up. There had been darkness and rain and a terrible pain in his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then there had been another flowering of pain on the back of his neck, and a feeling of being pulled this way and that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now there was light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He could see it through his eyelids. His left eyelid, anyway. Nothing but pain was happening on the other side of his face. He kept the eye shut, and strained his hearing instead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone was moving about. There was a clink of metal. A woman's voice said, “He's awake.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you sure?” said a man's voice. “How can you tell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because I'm good at telling if a man is asleep,” said the woman.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened his eye. He was lying on a bench or table of some sort. A young woman was leaning against the wall next to him, and her dress and bearing and the way she leaned filed her immediately in Vimes's policeman brain as: seamstress, but one of the bright ones. The man had a long black robe and silly floppy hat that got filed under: help, I'm in the hands of a <em class="calibre8">doctor</em>!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat bolt upright.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You lay one hand on me and I'll thump you!” he yelled, trying to swing his legs off the table. Half his head burst into flame.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I should take it easy, if I was you,” said the doctor, gently pushing him back. “That was a very nasty cut. And don't touch the eyepatch!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cut?” said Vimes, his hand brushing the stiff cloth of an eye-patch. Memories interlocked. “Carcer! Did anyone get him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whoever attacked you got away,” said the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“After that fall?” said Vimes. “He must've been limping, at least! Look, I've got to get—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he noticed all the other things. He'd been picking them up all the time, but only now did his subconscious present the list.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wasn't wearing his own clothes…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happened to my uniform?” he said, and he noticed the I-told-you-so expression the woman gave the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whoever attacked you stripped you down to your drawers and left you lying in the street,” she said. “I found you some spare clothes at my place. It's amazing what people leave behind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who took my armour?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never know names,” said the woman. “I saw a bunch of men running off carrying stuff, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ordinary thieves? Didn't they leave a receipt?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!” she said, laughing. “Why should they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And are <em class="calibre8">we</em> allowed to ask questions?” said the doctor, tidying his tools.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">None of this was right…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I mean…thank you, yes,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's your name?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's hand stopped halfway to his face again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean you don't know me?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Should we?” said the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">None of this was <em class="calibre8">right</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is Ankh-Morpork, isn't it?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, yes,” said the doctor, and turned to the woman. “There was a blow to the head,” he said, “but I wouldn't have thought it was <em class="calibre8">that</em> bad—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, I'm wasting time,” said the woman. “Who are you, mister?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Everyone</em> in the city knew Vimes, surely? The Guild of Seamstresses certainly did. And the doctor didn't look stupid. Perhaps this was not the right time to be totally truthful. He might just be somewhere where being a copper wasn't a good thing to be. It might be dangerous to be Vimes and, right now, he wasn't well enough to deal with it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keel,” he said. The name just dropped into his mind; it had been bubbling under the surface of his thoughts all day, ever since the lilac.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right,” said the woman, smiling. “Want to make up a first name?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“John,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Appropriate. Well…<em class="calibre8">John</em>, it's like this. Men lying flat out and naked around here aren't that uncommon. And, it's a funny thing, but they don't usually want anyone to know their real name, or where they live. You won't be the first one Doctor Lawn here has patched up. My name's Rosie. And now there's a little fee, you understand? For both of us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right, I know how this goes,” said Vimes, holding up his hands. “This is the Shades, right?” They both nodded. “Okay, then. Thank you. I haven't got any money, obviously, but once I've got home—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll escort you, shall I?” said the woman, handing him a badly styled coat and a pair of antique boots. “I wouldn't like you to be attacked by anything. A sudden loss of memory, for example.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes snapped, but very gently. His face hurt and there were plenty of other bruises everywhere, and he was dressed in a suit that smelled like a privy. He'd go up the Watch House, get cleaned and changed and make a quick report, and head on home. And this young lady could spend a night in the cells and then be handed over to the Seamstresses' Guild. They came down heavily on extortion like this. It was bad for trade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right,” he said. And pulled the boots on. The soles were made of thin, damp cardboard, and they were too tight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Dr Lawn waved his hands in a general gesture of dismissal. “He's all yours, Rosie. You leave that patch on for a few days, Mr Keel, and with any luck you'll have a working eye. Someone took a slash at you with a sharp knife. I've done the best I can and the stitching is good, but you're going to have a nasty scar.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised his hand to his cheek yet again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And don't pick at it!” Lawn snapped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on…John,” said Rosie. “Let's get you home where you belong.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stepped out. Water was dripping from the eaves, but the rain had eased.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I live up past Pseudopolis Yard,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lead on,” said Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They hadn't reached the end of the street before Vimes was aware that a couple of dark figures had fallen in behind them. He was about to turn, but Rosie clamped a hand on his arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't bother them, and they won't bother you,” she said. “They're just coming with us for protection.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose? Yours or mine?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rosie laughed. “Both,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, you just keep on walking, kind sir, and we'll be as quiet as little mice,” said a shrill voice behind him. A slightly deeper one said, “That's right, dearie. Just be a good boy and Aunty Dotsie won't have to open her handbag.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Dotsie and Sadie!” said Vimes. “The Agony Aunts! Well, <em class="calibre8">they</em> bloody well know who I am!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dark figures, both wearing old-fashioned black straw hoods, stepped back. In the gloom there were a number of metallic noises, and Vimes forced himself to relax a little. Even though they were, more or less, on the same side as the Watch, you never quite knew where you were with the Agony Aunts. Of course, that's what made them so useful. Any customer disturbing the peace in one of the local houses of good repute feared the threat of the Aunts far more than he did the Watch. The Watch had rules. And the Watch didn't have Dotsie's handbag. And Sadie could do terrible things with a parrot-headed umbrella.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on,” he said. “Dotsie? Sadie? Let's not mess about, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something prodded him in the chest. He looked down. The thing had a carved parrot head on it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You must keep walking, kind sir,” said a voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“While you've still got toes, dearie,” said another voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably a good idea,” said Rosie, tugging Vimes's arm. “But I can tell you've impressed them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not bent double and making bubbling noises. Come along, mystery man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared ahead, looking out for the blue light of Pseudopolis Yard. Somehow, it'd all make sense there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But, when he got there, there was no blue light over the archway. There were just a few lights upstairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hammered on the door until it opened a crack.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell's going on here?” he demanded, to the nose and one eye that was the visible totality of the occupant. “And get out of the way!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pushed the door back and strode in.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't the Watch House, not inside. There were the familiar stairs, right enough, but there was a wall right across the charge room, and carpets on the floor, and tapestries on the wall…and a housemaid holding a tray, and staring, and dropping the tray, and screaming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where are all my <em class="calibre8">officers</em>?” Vimes yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You leave this minute, d'you hear? You can't just come in like that! You get out of here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned, and confronted the old man who'd opened the door. He looked like a butler, and had picked up a cudgel. Perhaps because of nerves, or maybe just because of general elderly tremors, the tip of the cudgel waved and weaved under his nose. Vimes snatched it and threw it on the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is going on?” he demanded. The old man looked as bewildered as he was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt an odd, hollow terror welling up inside him. He darted back through the open door and into the wet night. Rosie and the Aunts had melted away in the darkness, as night people do when trouble looms, but Vimes ran on and into Kings Way, pushing aside other pedestrians and dodging the occasional carriage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was getting a second wind when he reached Scoone Avenue and turned into the driveway of his house. He wasn't sure what he'd find, but the place looked normal and there were torches burning on either side of the door. Familiar gravel crunched under his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He went to hammer on the door, but steeled himself not to, and rang the bell instead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a moment the door was opened by a butler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank goodness!” said Vimes. “It's me, man. Been in a fight. Nothing to worry about. How is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you want?” said the butler coldly. He took a step back, bringing him more fully in the light of the hall lamps. Vimes had never seen him before.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happened to Willikins?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The scullery boy?” Now the butler's tone was icy. “If you are a relative, I suggest you enquire round at the tradesmen's entrance. You ought to know better than to come to the front door.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried to think how to deal with this, but his fist didn't bother to wait. It laid the man out quite cleanly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No time for this,” said Vimes, stepping over him. He stood in the middle of the big hall and cupped his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mrs Content? Sybil?” he yelled, feeling the terror twist and knot inside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said a voice from what Vimes had always called The Ghastly Pink drawing room, and Sybil stepped out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre8">was</em> Sybil. The voice was right, and the eyes were right, and the way she stood was right. But the age wasn't right. This was a girl, far too young to be Sybil…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She looked from him to the prone butler. “Did <em class="calibre8">you</em> do that to Forsythe?” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I…er…I…it's…there's been a mistake…” Vimes murmured, backing away. But Sybil was already pulling a sword off the wall. It wasn't there for show. Vimes couldn't remember if his wife had ever learned to fence, but several feet of edged weapon is quite threatening enough when wielded by an angry amateur. Amateurs sometimes get lucky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He backed away hurriedly. “It's been a mistake…wrong house…mistaken identity…” He almost tripped over the fallen butler but managed to turn this into a staggering run through the doorway and down the steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wet leaves brushed against him as he blundered through the shrubbery to the gateway, where he leaned against the wall and gulped for air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That bloody Library! Hadn't he heard something, once, about how you could walk through time or something there? All those magical books pressed together did something <em class="calibre8">strange</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sybil had been so young. She'd looked sixteen! No wonder there wasn't a Watch House in Pseudopolis Yard! They'd only moved in there a few years ago!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The water was soaking through the cheap clothes. Back home…somewhere…was his huge leather greatcoat, heavy with oil, warm as toast…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Think, think, don't let the terror take control…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Perhaps he could go and explain things to Sybil. After all, she was still Sybil, wasn't she? Kind to bedraggled creatures? But even the softest heart would be inclined to harden when a rough, desperate man with a fresh scar and bad clothes barged into the house and said he was going to be your husband. A young woman could get quite the wrong idea, and he wouldn't want that, not while she was holding a sword. Besides, Lord Ramkin was probably still alive and he'd been a bloodthirsty old devil, as far as Vimes could recall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He slumped against the wall and reached for a cigar and the I terror twisted him again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was nothing in his pocket. Nothing at all. No Pantweed's Slim Panatellas but, more importantly, no cigar case…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It had been specially made. It had a slight curve. It had always nestled in his pocket since the day Sybil had given it to him. It was as near part of him as any <em class="calibre8">thing</em> could be.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are here, and this is now.” Constable Visit, a strict believer in the Omnian religion, occasionally quoted that from their holy book. Vimes understood it to mean, in less exalted copper speak, that you have to do the job that is in front of you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I am here, Vimes thought, and this is then. And less conscious parts of his brain added: you have no friends here. No home here. No purpose here. You are alone here.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No…not alone, said a part that was much, much deeper even than the terror, and was always on watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone was watching him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure detached itself from the damp shadows of the street, and walked towards him. Vimes couldn't make out the face, but that didn't matter. He knew it would be smiling that special smile of the predator who knows he has the prey under his paw, and knows that the <em class="calibre8">prey</em> knows this too, and also knows that the prey is desperately going to act as if they're having a perfectly friendly conversation, because the prey wants, so much, for this to be the case…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You don't want to <em class="calibre8">die</em> here, said the deep dark part of Vimes's soul.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got a light, mister?” said the predator. He didn't even bother to wave an unlit cigarette.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why, yes, of course,” said Vimes. He went as if to pat his pocket but swung around, arm outstretched, and caught a man creeping up behind him right across the ear. Then he leapt for the light-seeker in front of him and bore him to the ground with an arm across his throat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It would have worked. He knew, afterwards, that it really would have worked. If there hadn't been two more men in the shadows, it <em class="calibre8">would</em> have worked. As it was, he managed to kick one of them on the kneecap before he felt the garrotte go round his neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was pulled upright, the scar screaming pain as he tried to clutch at the rope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You hold him right there,” said a voice. “Look what he did to Jez. Damn! I'm gonna kick him in—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The shadows moved. Vimes, struggling for breath, his one good eye watering, was only vaguely aware of what was happening. But there were some grunts, and some soft, strange noises, and the pressure on his neck was abruptly released.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He fell forward, and then, reeling a little, struggled to his feet. A couple of men were lying on the ground. One was bent double, making little bubbling noises. And, far off and getting further, there were running footsteps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lucky we found you in time, kind sir,” said a voice right behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not lucky for some, dearie,” said one right next to it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rosie stepped forward, out of the gloom. “I think you ought to come back with us,” she said. “You're going to get hurt, running around like this. Come on. Obviously I'm not taking you back to my place—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—obviously,” murmured Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but Mossy'll find you somewhere to lay your head, I expect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mossy Lawn!” said Vimes, suddenly light-headed. “That's him! The pox doctor! I remember!” He tried to focus one tired eye on the young woman. Yes, the bone structure was right. That chin. That was a no-nonsense chin. It was a chin that took people somewhere. “Rosie…you're Mrs Palm!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mrs?” she said, coldly, while the Agony Aunts giggled their high-pitched giggle. “I think <em class="calibre8">not</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I mean—” Vimes floundered. Of course, only the senior members of the profession adopted “Mrs” as an honorific. She wasn't senior yet. There wasn't even a guild.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I've never seen you before,” said Rosie. “And neither have Dotsie and Sadie, and they have an amazing memory for faces. But you know us and you act as if you own the place, John Keel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do. It's the way you stand. Officers stand like that. You eat well. Maybe a bit too well. You could lose a few pounds. And then there's the scars all over you. I saw 'em in Mossy's place. Your legs are tanned from the knees down, and that says ‘watchman’ to me, because they go bare-legged. But I know every watchman in the city and you're not one of them, so maybe you're a military man. You fight by instinct, and dirty, too. That means you're used to fighting for your life in a melee, and that's odd, because that says to me ‘foot soldier’, not officer. The word is that the lads took some fine armour off you. That's officer. But you don't wear rings. That's foot soldier—rings catch in things, can pull your finger off if you're not careful. And you're married.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How can you tell <em class="calibre8">that</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any woman could tell that,” said Rosie Palm smoothly. “Now, step sharp. We're out after curfew as it is. The Watch won't bother much about us, but they <em class="calibre8">will</em> about you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Curfew, thought Vimes. That was a long time ago. Vetinari never ordered curfews. They interfered with business.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think perhaps I lost my memory when I was attacked,” he said. That sounded good, he thought. What he really needed now was somewhere quiet, to think.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? I think perhaps I'm the Queen of Hersheba,” said Rosie. “Just remember, kind sir. I'm not doing this because I'm interested in you, although I'd admit to a macabre fascination about how long you're going to survive. If it hadn't been a cold wet night I'd have left you in the road. I'm a working girl, and I don't need trouble. But you look like a man who can lay his hands on a few dollars, and there <em class="calibre8">will</em> be a bill.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll leave the money on the dressing table,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The slap in the face knocked him against the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Consider that a sign of my complete lack of a sense of humour, will you?” said Rosie, shaking some life back into her hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm…sorry,” said Vimes. “I didn't mean to…I mean…look, thank you for everything. I mean it. But this is not being a good night.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I can see that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's worse than you think. Believe me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We all have our troubles. Believe me,” said Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was glad of the Agony Aunts behind them as they walked back to the Shades. This was the <em class="calibre8">old</em> Shades, and Lawn lived a street's width away from it. The Watch never set foot here. In truth, the new Shades wasn't a lot better, but people had at least learned what happened if anyone attacked a watchman. The Aunts were a different matter. No one attacked the Aunts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A night's sleep, thought Vimes. Maybe, in the morning, this won't have happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She wasn't there, was she?” said Rosie, after a while. “Your wife? That was Lord Ramkin's house. Are you in trouble with him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never met the man,” said Vimes absently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were lucky someone told us where you'd gone. Those men were probably in the pay of someone up there. They're a law unto themselves, over in Ankh. Some rough man walking around with no tradesman's tools…well, he's to be turned off the patch, and if they rob you blind while they're doing it who's going to care?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Yes, thought Vimes. That's the way it was. Privilege, which just means private law. Two types of people laugh at the law: those that break it and those that make it. Well, it's not like that now—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">–but I'm not in “now” now. Damn those wizards…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The wizards. Right! In the morning I'll go and explain! Easy! <em class="calibre8">They'll</em> understand! I'll bet they can send me right back to when I left! There's a whole <em class="calibre8">university</em> full of people to deal with this! It's not my problem any more!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Relief filled his body like warm pink mist. All he had to do was get through the night…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But why wait? They were open all night, weren't they? Magic didn't shut. Vimes remembered late-night patrols when he could practically see by the glows coming from some of the windows. He could simply—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hold on, hold on. A policeman's thought had been stirring in his mind. The Aunts didn't run. They <em class="calibre8">famously</em> didn't run. They caught up with you slowly. Anyone who'd been, as they called it, “a very naughty boy” would sleep extremely badly knowing that the Aunts on his tail were <em class="calibre8">slowly</em> getting nearer, pausing only for a cream tea somewhere or to visit an interesting jumble sale. But Vimes had run, run all the way up to Scoone Avenue, in the dark, through coach traffic and crowds of people swarming home before curfew. No one had paid him any attention, would surely not have seen his face if they did. And he certainly didn't know anyone here. He amended the thought: no one knew <em class="calibre8">him</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” he said casually, “who told you where I'd gone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, one of those old monks,” said Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which old monks?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who knows? A little bald man with a robe and a broom. There's always monks begging and chanting somewhere. He was in Phedre Road.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you asked him where I'd gone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? No. He just looked around and said, ‘Mr Keel ran up to Scoone Avenue,’ and then he went on sweeping.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sweeping?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it's the kind of holy thing they do. So they don't tread on ants, I think. Or they sweep sins away. Or maybe they just like the place clean. Who cares what monks do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And nothing about that struck you as odd?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why? I thought perhaps you were naturally kind to beggars!” snapped Rosie. “It doesn't bother me. Dotsie said she put something in his begging bowl, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would <em class="calibre8">you</em> ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The majority of Vimes thought: who does care about what monks do? They're monks. That's <em class="calibre8">why</em> they're weird. Maybe one had a moment of revelation or something, they like that kind of thing. So what? Find the wizards, explain what's happened and leave it to them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the policeman part thought: how do little monks know I'm called Keel? I smell a rat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The majority said: it's a thirty-year-old rat, then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the policeman said: yes, that's why it smells.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, I'm going to have to go and check something,” he said. “I'll…probably be back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I can't chain you up,” said Rosie. She smiled a grim little smile, and went on: “That costs extra. But if you don't come back, yet have any intention of staying in this city, then the Aunts—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I promise you, the last thing I want to do is leave Ankh-Morpork,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That actually sounded convincing,” said Rosie. “Off you go, then. We're past curfew now. But why don't I think you'll be bothered by that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he disappeared in the gloom Dotsie sidled up to Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want we should follow him, dearie?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't bother.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You should have let Sadie give him a little prod, dear. That slows them down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it takes quite a lot to slow that man down. And we don't want trouble. Not at a time like this. We're too close.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36379311" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't want to be out at a time like this, mister.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned. He'd been hammering on the closed gates of the University.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were three watchmen behind him. One of them was holding a torch. Another was holding a bow. The third had clearly decided that activities for tonight would not include heavy lifting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised his hands slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect he wants to be in a nice cold cell for the night,” said the one with the torch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh dear, thought Vimes. It's the Comedian of the Year contest. Coppers really oughtn't to try this, but they still did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was just visiting the University,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes?” said the one without either torch or bow. He was portly, and Vimes could make out the tarnished gleam of a sergeant's stripes. “Where d'you live?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nowhere,” said Vimes. “I've just arrived. And shall we move right along? I don't have a job and I don't have any money. And neither of those is a crime.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Out after curfew? No visible means of support?” said the sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I got my legs,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At the moment, hur, hur,” said one of the men. He stopped when Vimes looked at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want to make a complaint, sergeant,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You,” said Vimes. “And the Brothers Grin here. You're not <em class="calibre8">doing</em> it right. If you're going to arrest someone, you take charge right away. You've got a badge and a weapon, yes? And he's got his hands up, and a guilty conscience. <em class="calibre8">Everyone's</em> got a guilty conscience. So he's wondering what you know and what you're going to do, and what you do is fire off the questions, sharply. You don't make silly jokes 'cos that makes you too human and you keep him off balance so he can't quite think a clear sentence and above all you <em class="calibre8">don't let him move like this and grab your arm and pull it up so it almost breaks like this and grab your sword and hold it to your throat like this</em>. Tell your men to lower those swords, will you? The way they're waving them around, they could hurt someone.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sergeant gurgled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes. “Oh, sergeant…this is a sword? Ever sharpen it? What do you use it for, <em class="calibre8">bludgeoning</em> people to death? Now, what you're going to do is, you're all going to put your weapons on the ground over there, and then I'm going to let the sarge go and I'll leg it up that alley, okay? And by the time you've got your weapons back in your hands, and believe me I'd advise you to get hold of weapons before coming after me, I'll be well away. End of problem all round. Any questions?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All three watchmen were silent. Then Vimes heard a very faint, very close noise. It was the sound of the hairs in his ears rustling as, with great care, the tip of a crossbow bolt gently entered his ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir, I have a question,” said a voice behind him. “Do you ever listen to your own advice?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt the pressure of the crossbow against his skull, and wondered how far the arrow would go if the trigger was pulled. An inch would be too much.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sometimes you just had to take the lumps. He dropped the sword with great and exaggerated care, released his grip on the sergeant, and stepped away meekly while the fourth watchman maintained his aim.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll just stand with my legs apart, shall I?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” growled the sergeant, turning round. “Yeah, that'll save us a bit of time. Although for <em class="calibre8">you</em>, mister, we've got all night. Well done, lance-constable. We'll make a watchman of you yet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, well done,” said Vimes, staring at the young man with the bow. But the sergeant was already taking his run-up.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36379444" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was later. Pain had happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes lay on the hard cell bed and tried to make it go away. It hadn't been as bad as it might be. That mob hadn't even been able to organize a good seeing-to. They didn't understand how a man could roll with the punches and half the time they were getting in their own way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Was he enjoying this? Not the pain. He'd pass on the pain. In fact he'd passed out on the pain. But there was that small part of him he'd heard sometimes during strenuous arrests after long chases, the part that wanted to punch and punch long after punching had already achieved its effect. There was a joy to it. He called it the beast. It stayed hidden until you needed it and then, when you needed it, out it came. Pain brought it out, and fear. He'd killed werewolves with his bare hands, mad with anger and terror and tasting, deep inside, the blood of the beast…and it was sniffing the air</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ullo, Mister Vimes, haha. I was wondering when you'd wake up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat up sharply. The cells were barred on the corridor side, but also between cells as well, on the basis that those caged ought to know they were in a cage. And in the next cell, lying with his hands behind his head, was Carcer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go on,” said Carcer cheerfully. “Make a grab for me through the bars, eh? Want to see how long it takes before the guards arrive?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At least they got you too,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not for long, not for long. I smell of roses, me, haha. Visitor to the city, got lost, very helpful to the Watch, so sorry to have bothered them, here's a little something for their trouble…You shouldn't of stopped the Watch taking bribes, Mister Vimes. It means an easier life all round, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I'll nail you some other way, Carcer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer inserted a finger in his nose, wiggled it around, withdrew it, inspected its contents critically and flicked them towards the ceiling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that's where it all goes runny, Mister Vimes. You see, I wasn't dragged in by four coppers. I didn't go around assaulting watchmen, or trying to break into the University—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was knocking on the door!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe you, Mister Vimes. But you know what coppers are like. You look at 'em in a funny way, and the buggers'll fit you up for every crime in the book. Terrible, what they can pin on an honest man, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes knew it. “So you got some money,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“O'course, Mister Vimes. I'm a crook. And the best part is, it's even easier to be a crook when no one knows you're a crook, haha. But coppering depends on people believing you're a copper. A turn-up for the books, eh? You know we're back in the good old days, haha?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems that way,” Vimes admitted. He didn't like talking to Carcer, but right now he seemed to be the only real person around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where did you land, if I may ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the Shades.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me too. Couple of blokes tried to mug me where I lay. Me! I ask you, Mister Vimes! Still, they had some money on them, so that worked out all right. Yes, I think I'm going to be very happy here. Ah, here comes one of our brave lads…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A watchman walked along the passage, swinging his keys. He was elderly, the kind of copper who gets given the jobs where swinging keys is more likely than swinging a truncheon, and his most distinguishing feature was a nose twice the width and half the length of the average nose. He stared at Vimes for a moment, and then passed on to Carcer's cell. He unlocked the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You. Hop it,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. Thank you, sir,” said Carcer, hurrying out. He pointed to Vimes. “You wanna watch <em class="calibre8">that</em> one, sir. He's an animal. Decent people shouldn't be locked up in the same cells, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hop it, I said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hopping it, sir. Thank you, sir.” And Carcer, with a leery wink at Vimes, hopped it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The jailer turned to Vimes. “And what's your name, hnah, mister?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“John Keel,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, and I've had my kicking. Fair's fair. I'd like to go now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you'd like to go, would you? Hnah! You'd like me to hand over these keys, hnah, and give you five pence from the poor box for your, hnah, trouble, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man was standing <em class="calibre8">very</em> close to the bars, with the grin of one who mistakenly thinks he's a wit when he's only half a one. And if Vimes's reflexes were quicker, and he'd bet they were even now, it'd be the work of a second to pull the old fool forcibly into the bars and spread his nose even further across his face. No doubt about it, the psychopaths had it the easy way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just freedom would do,” he said, resisting temptation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">You</em> ain't going anywhere, hnah, 'cept to see the captain,” said the jailer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd be Captain Tilden?” said Vimes. “Have I got that right? Smokes like a bonfire? Got a brass ear and a wooden leg?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, an' he can have you <em class="calibre8">shot</em>, hnah, how d'you like <em class="calibre8">them</em> bananas?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cluttered desk of Vimes's memory finally unearthed the inadvertent coffee mat of recollection from under the teacup of forgetfulness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're <em class="calibre8">Snouty</em>,” he said. “Right? Some bloke broke your nose and it never got set properly! And your eyes water all the time which is why they gave you permanent jail duty—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do I know you, mister?” said Snouty, peering at Vimes through suspicious, running eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? No. No!” said Vimes hastily. “But I've heard people talk about you. Practically runs the Watch House, they said. Very fair man, they said. Firm but fair. Never spits in the gruel, never widdles in the tea. And never confuses his fruit, either.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The visible parts of Snouty's face contorted into the resentful scowl of someone who can't quite keep up with the script.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh yeah?” he managed. “Well, hnah, I've always kept a clean cell, that's very true.” He looked a little nonplussed at the development, but managed another scowl. “You stay there, mister, and I'll go an' tell the captain you woke up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went back and lay on the bunk, staring at the badly spelled and anatomically incorrect graffiti on the ceiling. For a while there was a raised voice from upstairs, with an occasional intrusive “hnah!” from Snouty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he heard the jailer's footsteps on the stairs again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, well, well,” he said, with the tone of someone looking forward to seeing a third party get what was coming to them. “Turns out the captain wants to see you <em class="calibre8">right away</em>. Now, are you gonna let me shackle you, hnah, or do I call the lads down?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Gods protect you, Vimes thought. Maybe it was true that the blow that had spread Snouty's nose across his face had scrambled his brain. You had to be a special kind of idiot to try to handcuff a dangerous prisoner all by yourself. If he'd tried it with Carcer, for example, he'd have been a dead idiot five minutes ago.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The jailer opened the door. Vimes stood up and presented his wrists. After a second's hesitation, Snouty handcuffed him. It always paid to be nice to a jailer; you might not get handcuffed behind your back. A man with both hands in front of him had quite a lot of freedom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You go up the stairs first,” said Snouty, and reached down and picked up an efficient looking crossbow. “And if you even try to walk fast, mister, I'll shoot you, hnah, where you die slow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very fair,” said Vimes. “Very fair.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked up the steps very carefully, hearing Snouty's heavy breathing right behind him. Like many people of limited intellectual scope, Snouty took what he <em class="calibre8">could</em> do very seriously. He'd show a refreshing lack of compunction about pulling that trigger, for one thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached the top of the stairs and remembered to hesitate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnah, turn left, you,” said Snouty behind him. Vimes nodded to himself. And then first on the right. It was all coming back to him, in a great wave. This was Treacle Mine Road. This was his first Watch House. This was where it all began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain's door was open. The tired-looking old man behind the desk glanced up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Be seated,” said Tilden coldly. “Thank you, Snouty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had mixed memories of Captain Tilden. He had been a military man before being given this job as a kind of pension, and that was a bad thing in a senior copper. It meant he looked to Authority for orders and obeyed them, whereas Vimes found it better to look to Authority for orders and then filter those orders through a fine mesh of common sense, adding a generous scoop of creative misunderstanding and maybe even incipient deafness if circumstances demanded, because Authority rarely descended to street level. Tilden set too great a store by shiny breastplates and smartness on parade. You had to have some of that stuff, that was true enough. You couldn't let people slob around. But although he'd never voice the view in public, Vimes liked to see a bit of battered armour around the place. It showed that someone had been battering it. Besides, when you were lurking in the shadows you didn't want to gleam…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was an Ankh-Morpork flag pinned to one wall, the red faded to threadbare orange. Rumour had it that Tilden saluted it every day. There was also a very large silver inkstand, with a gilt regimental crest on it, occupying quite a lot of the desk; Snouty polished it every morning and it shone. Tilden had never quite left the army behind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Still, Vimes retained a soft spot for the old man. He'd been a successful soldier, as these things went; he'd generally been on the winning side, and had killed more of the enemy by good if dull tactics than his own men by bad but exciting ones. He'd been, in his own way, kind and reasonably fair; the men of the Watch had run rings around him, without his ever noticing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now Tilden was giving him the Long Stare With Associated Paperwork. It was supposed to mean: we know all about you, so why don't you tell us all about yourself? But he really wasn't any good at it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes returned it blankly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is your name again?” said Tilden, aware that Vimes was the better starer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keel,” said Vimes. “John Keel.” And…what the hell… “Look,” he said, “you've only got one piece of paper there that means anything, and that's the report from that sergeant, assuming he can write.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As a matter of fact I have <em class="calibre8">two</em> pieces of paper,” said the captain. “The other one concerns the <em class="calibre8">death</em> of John Keel, what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? For a scrap with the Watch?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the current emergency, that would be quite sufficient for the death penalty,” said Tilden, leaning forward. “But, ha, perhaps it won't be necessary in this case, because John Keel died yesterday. You beat him up and robbed him, what? You took his money but you didn't bother with the letters, because your sort can't read, what? So you wouldn't have known that John Keel was a <em class="calibre8">policeman</em>, what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">What?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the skinny face with its triumphantly bristling moustache and the little faded blue eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then there was the sound of someone industriously sweeping the floor in the corridor outside. The captain looked past him, growled, and hurled a pen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get him out of here!” he barked. “What's the little devil doing here at this time of night, anyway?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned his head. There was a skinny, wizened-looking man standing in the doorway, bald as a baby. He was grinning stupidly, and holding a broom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's cheap, sir, hnah, and it's best if he comes in when it's, hnah, quiet,” Snouty murmured, grabbing the little man by a stick-thin elbow. “C'mon, out you get, Mister Lousy—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So now the crossbow wasn't pointing at Vimes. And he had several pounds of metal on his wrists or, to put it another way, his arms were a hammer. He went to stand up…</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36379811" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes woke up and stared at the ceiling. There was a deep rumbling somewhere near by. Treadmill? Watermill?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was going to be a corny line, but some things you had to know.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where am I?” he said. And then he added: “<em class="calibre8">This</em> time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well <em class="calibre8">done</em>,” said a voice somewhere behind him. “Consciousness to sarcasm in five seconds!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The room was large, by the feel of the air, and the play of light on the walls suggested there were candles alight behind Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice said: “I'd like you to think of me as a friend.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A friend? Why?” said Vimes. There was a smell of cigarette smoke in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone ought to have a friend,” said the voice. “Ah, I see you've noticed you're still handcuffed—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice said this because in one movement Vimes had swung himself off the table and plunged forward—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes woke up and stared at the ceiling. There was a deep rumbling somewhere near by. Treadmill? Watermill? Then his thoughts knotted themselves most unpleasantly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What,” he said, “just happened?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you might like to try that again, lad,” said the invisible friend. “We have little tricks here, as you will learn. Just sit up. I know you've been through a lot, but we don't have time for messing about. This is sooner than I'd like, but I thought I'd better get you out of there before it went <em class="calibre8">really</em> runny…Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes froze. “Who <em class="calibre8">are</em> you?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Lu-Tze officially, Mister Vimes. But you can call me Sweeper, since we're friends.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat up carefully and looked around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The shadowy walls were covered with…writing, it must be writing, he thought, but the Hubland type of writing which is only one step away from being little pictures.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The candle was standing on a saucer. Some way behind it, just visible in the shadows, were two cylinders, each as wide as a man and twice as long, set in massive horizontal bearings, one above the other. Both were turning slowly, and both gave the impression of being a lot bigger than their mere dimensions suggested. Their rumble filled the room. There was a strange violet haze around them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Two yellow-robed figures tended the cylinders, but Vimes's eye was drawn to the skinny little bald man sitting on an upturned crate by the candle. He was smoking a foul roll-up of the sort favoured by Nobby, and looked like a foreign monk. In fact, he looked exactly the kind Vimes occasionally saw with begging bowls in the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're looking fit, Mister Vimes,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were in the Watch House, right?” said Vimes. “Snouty called you Lousy!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Mister Vimes. Lu-Tze. I've been sweeping up there every night for the past ten days. All for two pence and all the kicks I can't dodge. Just waiting for you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you told Rosie Palm where I'd gone, too? You were the monk on the bridge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right again. Couldn't be sure she'd catch up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do <em class="calibre8">you</em> know who I am?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't get excited, Mister Vimes,” said Sweeper calmly. “I'm here to help you…your grace. And I'm your friend because right now I'm the only person in the world who will probably believe anything you tell me about, oh, thunderstorms and falls, that sort of thing. At least,” he added, “the only sane person.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched Vimes as the man sat quite still for half a minute.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Good</em>, Mister Vimes,” said Sweeper. “Thinking. I like that in a man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is magic, right?” said Vimes, at last.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something like that, yes,” said Sweeper. “F'rinstance, just now we moved you back in time. Just a few seconds. Just so you wouldn't do anything you'd regret. Can't say I blame you for wanting to have a go at someone after all you've been through, but we don't want any harm to come to you, do we…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah? I almost had my hands round your throat!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper smiled. It was a disarming little smile. “Smoke?” he said. He fumbled in his robe and produced a ragged hand-rolled cigarette.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thanks, but I've got my own—” Vimes began automatically. His hand stopped halfway to his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes,” said Sweeper. “The silver cigar case. Sybil gave it to you as a wedding present, right? Shame about that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want to go home,” said Vimes. It came out as a whisper. He hadn't been sleeping in the past twelve hours, merely recovering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This time it was Sweeper who sat in silence, apart from the rumble of the cylinders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a policeman, Mister Vimes,” he said eventually. “Well, I'd like you to believe, for a while, that I'm a sort of policeman too, all right? Me and my colleagues, we see that…things happen. Or don't happen. Don't ask questions right now. Just nod.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shrugged instead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. And let's say on <em class="calibre8">our</em> patrol we've found you, as it might be, in a metaphorical kind of way, lying in the gutter on a Saturday night singing a rude song about wheelbarrows—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know a rude song about wheelbarrows!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper sighed. “Hedgehogs? Custard? One-string fiddles? It really doesn't matter. Now, we've found you a long way from where you should be and we'd <em class="calibre8">like</em> to get you home, but it's not as easy as you might think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've gone back in time, haven't I? It was that bloody Library! Everyone knows the magic in there makes strange things happen!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes. It was mainly that, yes. It's more true to say that you, er, got caught up in a major event.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can anyone get me back? Can you get me back?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We-ell…” said Sweeper, looking awkward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wizards can if you can't,” said Vimes. “I'll go back and see them in the morning!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you will, will you? I'd like to be there when you do. These ain't the wizards under decent old Ridcully, you know. You'll be lucky if they only laugh at you. Anyway, even if they wanted to be helpful they'd hit the same problem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what's that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It can't be done. Not yet.” For the first time in the conversation Sweeper looked ill at ease. “The big problem I'm facing, Mister Vimes, is that I ought to tell you a few things that I'm not, in any circumstances, allowed to tell you. But you're a man who isn't happy until he knows the facts. I respect that. So…if I tell you everything, can you spare me, oh, twenty minutes of your time? It could save your life.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right,” said Vimes. “But what—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've got a bargain,” said Sweeper. “Roll 'em, boys.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The noise of the big cylinders changed for a moment and Vimes felt a very slight shock, a suggestion that his whole body had just gone <em class="calibre8">plib</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Twenty minutes,” said Sweeper. “I'll answer every question. And then, Mister Vimes, we'll send you back from twenty minutes in the future to now and you'll tell yourself what you and me agree you ought to know. Which will be most of it, really. You're a man who can keep secrets. Okay?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but—” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tone of the spinning cylinders changed slightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam Vimes saw himself standing in the middle of the room. “That's me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right,” said Sweeper. “Now listen to the man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hello, Sam,” said the other Vimes, staring not quite at him. “I can't see you, but they say you can see me. Remember the smell of lilac? You thought about those who died. And then you told Willikins to hose down that kid. And, eh…you've got a pain in your chest you're a bit worried about but you haven't told anyone…That's about enough, I think. You know I'm you. Now, there's some things I can't tell you. I can know 'em because I'm in a—” The speaker stopped and looked away, as if he was taking instruction from someone offstage “—a closed loop. Er, you could say I'm twenty minutes of your life you don't recall. Remember when you had…”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36380108" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">…a sensation that his whole body had just gone <em class="calibre8">plib</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper stood up. “I hate to do this,” he said, “but we're in the temple and we can pretty much dampen out the paradoxes. On your feet, Mister Vimes. I'm going to tell you everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just said you couldn't!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper smiled. “Need any help with those handcuffs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, these old Capstick Mark Ones? No, just give me a nail and a couple of minutes. How come I'm in a temple?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I brought you here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You carried me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. You walked with me. Blindfolded, of course. And then when you were here, I gave you a little drink…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't remember that!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course not. That was the purpose of the drink. Not very mystical, but it does the job. We don't want you coming back here, now, do we? This place is supposed to be a <em class="calibre8">secret</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You messed up my memory? Now you see here—” Vimes half stood, but Sweeper held up his hands placatingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't worry, don't worry, it just…made you forget a few minutes,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">How many minutes?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just a few, just a few. And it had herbs in it. Good for you, herbs. And then we let you sleep. Don't worry, no one is after us. They'll never know you've gone. See this thing here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper picked up an open-work box that lay beside his chair. It had straps like a knapsack, and Vimes could just see a cylinder inside the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is called a Procrastinator,” said the monk, “and it's a tiny version of the ones over there, the ones that look like your granny's mangle. I'm not going to get technical, but when it's spinning it moves time around you. Did you understand what I just said?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, it's a magic box. Happier?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go on,” said Vimes grimly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You wore one of these when I led you here from the Watch House. Because you were wearing it, you were, shall we say, outside time. And after we've had this little talk I'll take you back to the Watch House and the old captain won't know any different. No time is passing in the outside world while we're in the temple. The Procrastinators take care of that. Like I said, they move time around. Actually, what's really happening is that they are moving us back in time at the same time that time moves us forward. We've got others around the place. Good for keeping food fresh. What else can I tell you…oh, yeah. It helps keep track if you just think of things happening one after another. Believe me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is like a dream,” said Vimes. There was a clink as the handcuffs sprang open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it is, isn't it,” said Sweeper calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And can your magic box take me home? Move me in time all the way to where I ought to be?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This? Hah. No, this is strictly for small-scale stuff—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, Mr Sweeper, I've spent the last day fighting a right bastard on a roof and getting beaten up twice and sewn up once and, hah, stitched up, too. I've got the impression I should be thanking you for something but I'm damned if I know what it is. What I want is straight answers, mister. I'm the Commander of the Watch in this city!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't you mean <em class="calibre8">will be</em>?” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! You told me it helps if I think of things happening one after another! Well, yesterday, <em class="calibre8">my</em> yesterday, I was Commander of the Watch and I bloody well still <em class="calibre8">am</em> the Commander of the Watch. I don't care what anyone else thinks. They are not in possession of all the facts!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hold on to that thought,” said Sweeper, standing up. “All right, commander. You want some facts. Let's take a walk in the garden, shall we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Can you get me home?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not yet. It's my professional opinion that you're here for a reason.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A reason? I fell through the bloody dome!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That helped, yes. Calm down, Mister Vimes. It's all been a great strain, I can see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper led the way out of the hall. There was a big office outside, a hubbub of quiet but purposeful activity. Here and there, among the worn and scratched desks, there were more cylinders like the ones Vimes had seen in the other chamber.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some of them were turning slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very busy, our Ankh-Morpork section,” said Sweeper. “We had to buy the shops on either side.” He picked up a scroll from a basket by one desk, glanced at the contents, and tossed it back with a sigh. “And everyone's overworked,” he added. “We're here at all hours. And when <em class="calibre8">we</em> say ‘all hours’, we know what we're talking about.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But what is it you <em class="calibre8">do</em>?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We see that things happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't things happen anyway?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Depends what things you want. We're the Monks of History, Mister Vimes. We see that it happens.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've never heard of you, and I know this city like the back of my hand,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. And how often do you <em class="calibre8">really</em> look at the back of your hand, Mister Vimes? We're in Clay Lane, to stop you wondering.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Those loony monks in the funny foreign building between the pawnbrokers and the shonky shop? The ones who go dancing round the street banging drums and shouting?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well <em class="calibre8">done</em>, Mister Vimes. It's funny how secretly you can move when you're a loony monk dancing through the streets banging a drum.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When I was a kid most of my clothes came from the shonky shop in Clay Lane,” said Vimes. “Everyone we knew got their clothes from the shonky shop. Used to be run by a foreign guy with a funny name.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Brother Soon Shine Sun,” said Sweeper. “Not a hugely enlightened operative, but a genius when it comes to pricing fourth-hand schmutter.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shirts so worn you could see daylight through 'em and trousers as shiny as glass,” said Vimes. “And by the end of the week half the stuff was in the pawn shop.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right,” said Sweeper. “You'd pawn your clothes in the pawn shop, but you'd never <em class="calibre8">buy</em> clothes from the pawn shop, 'cos there were Standards, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. When you got right down to the bottom of the ladder the rungs were very close together and, oh my, weren't the women careful about them. In their own way, they were as haughty as any duchess. You might not have much, but you could have Standards. Clothes might be cheap and old but at least they could be scrubbed. There might be nothing behind the front door worth stealing but at least the doorstep could be clean enough to eat your dinner off, if you could've afforded dinner. And no one ever bought their clothes from the pawn shop. You'd hit bottom when you did that. No, you bought them from Mr Sun at the shonky shop, and you never asked where <em class="calibre8">he</em> got them from.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I went off to my first proper job in a suit from the shonky shop,” he said. “Seems like centuries ago now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Sweeper. “It was only last week.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Silence ballooned. The only sound was the purr of the cylinders dotted around the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Sweeper added: “It must have occurred to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why? I've spent most of the time here being beaten up or unconscious or trying to get home! You mean I'm out there somewhere?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. In fact last night you saved the day for your squad by aiming a crossbow at a dangerous miscreant who was attacking your sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The silence ballooned larger this time. It seemed to fill the universe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Eventually, Vimes said: “No. That's not right. That never happened. I would have remembered that. And I can remember a lot about my first weeks in the job.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Interesting, isn't it?” said Sweeper. “But is it not written: ‘There's a lot goes on we don't get told’? Mister Vimes, you need a short spell in the Garden of Inner City Tranquillity.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36380406" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was indeed a garden, like a lot of other gardens you got in areas such as Clay Lane. The grey soil was nothing more than old brick dust, elderly cat mess and generalized, semi-rotted dross. At the far end was a three-hole privy. It was built handily by the gate to the back lane so the night-soil men didn't have far to go, but this one had a small stone cylinder turning gently beside it and the gate was barred shut.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The garden didn't get much proper light. Gardens like this never did. You got second-hand light once the richer folk in the taller buildings had finished with it. Some people kept pigeons or rabbits or pigs on their plots, or planted against all experience a few vegetables. But it'd take magic beans to reach the real sunlight in gardens like this.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, someone had made an effort. Most of the spare ground had been covered with gravel of different sizes, and this had been carefully raked into swirls and curves. Here and there, apparently with great thought, some individual larger stones had been positioned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the garden of rocks, desperate for anything to occupy his attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He could see what the designer had in mind, he thought, but the effect had been spoiled. This was the big city, after all. Garbage got everywhere. The main disposal method was throwing it over a wall. Sooner or later someone would sell it or, possibly, eat it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A young monk was carefully raking the gravel. He gave a respectful bow as Sweeper approached.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The old man sat down on a stone bench.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Push off and get us two cups of tea, lad, will you?” he said. “One green with yak butter, and Mister Vimes will have it boiled orange in a builder's boot with two sugars and yesterday's milk, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's how I like it,” said Vimes weakly, sitting down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper took a deep, long breath. “And I like building gardens,” he said. “Life should be a garden.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared blankly at what was in front of them. “Okay,” he said. “The gravel and rocks, yes, I can see that. Shame about all the rubbish. It always turns up, doesn't it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Lu-Tze. “It's part of the pattern.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? The old cigarette packet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly. That invokes the element of air,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the cat doings?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To remind us that disharmony, like a cat, gets everywhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The cabbage stalks? The used sonky?”<a href="#_ftn5" title="5. Named after Wallace Sonky, a man without whose experiments with thin rubber the pressure on housing in Ankh-Morpork would have been a good deal more pressing."><sup class="calibre11">5</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At our peril we forget the role of the organic in the total harmony. What arrives seemingly by chance in the pattern is part of a higher organization that we can only dimly comprehend. This is a very important fact, and has a bearing on your case.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the beer bottle?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For the first time since Vimes had met him, the monk frowned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Y'know, some bugger always tosses one over the wall on his way back from the pub on Friday nights. If it wasn't forbidden to do that kind of thing, he'd feel the flat of my hand and no mistake.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not part of the higher organization?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Possibly. Who cares? That sort of thing gets on my <em class="calibre8">thungas</em>, it really does,” said Sweeper. He sat back with his hands on his knees. Serenity flowed once more. “Well now, Mister Vimes…you know the universe is made up of very small items?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've got to work up to things gradually, Mister Vimes. You're a bright man. I can't keep telling you everything is done by magic.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Am I really here too? In the city? I mean, a younger me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. Why not? Where was I? Oh, yes. Made up of very small items, and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is not a good time to be in the Watch. I remember! There's the curfew. And that was only the start!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Small items, Mister Vimes,” said Sweeper sharply. “You need to know this.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, all <em class="calibre8">right</em>. How small?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very, very small. So tiny that they have some very strange ways indeed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “And I ask you: what ways are these, yeah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm glad you asked that question. For one thing, they can be in many places at once. Try to think, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried to concentrate on what was probably the discarded fish-and-chip wrapper of Infinity. Oddly enough, with so many horrible thoughts crowding his head, it was almost a relief to put them on one side in order to consider this. The brain did things like that. He remembered once when he'd been stabbed and would've bled to death if Sergeant Angua hadn't caught up with him, and how, as he lay there, he'd found himself taking a very intense interest in the pattern of the carpet. The senses say: we've only got a few minutes, let's record everything, in every detail…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That can't be right,” he said. “If this seat is made up of lots of tiny things that can be in lots of places at once, why is it standing still?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Give the man a small cigar!” said Sweeper jubilantly. “That's the big problem, Mister Vimes. And the answer, our Abbot tells us, is that it <em class="calibre8">is</em> in lots of places at once. Ah, here's the tea. And in order for it to be in lots of places at once, the multiverse is made up of a vast number of alternative universes. An oodleplex of oodleplexes. That's like the biggest number anyone can think of, ever. Just so's it can accommodate all the quantum. Am I going too fast for you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre8">that</em>,” said Vimes. “I know about <em class="calibre8">that</em>. Like, you make a decision in this universe and you made a different decision in another one. I heard the wizards talking about that at a posh reception once. They were…arguing about the Glorious Twenty-fifth of May.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what were they saying?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, all the old stuff…that it would have turned out different if the rebels had properly guarded the gates and the bridges, that you can't break a siege by a frontal attack. But they were saying that, in a way, everything happens somewhere—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you believed them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It sounds like complete <em class="calibre8">thungas</em>. But sometimes you can't help wondering: what would have happened if I'd done something different—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like when you killed your wife?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper was impressed at Vimes's lack of reaction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a test, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a quick study, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But in some other universe, believe me, I hauled off and punched you one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Again, Sweeper smiled the annoying little smile that suggested he didn't believe him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You haven't killed your wife,” he said. “Anywhere. There is nowhere, however huge the multiverse is, where Sam Vimes <em class="calibre8">as he is now</em> has murdered Lady Sybil. But the theory is quite clear. It says that if anything could happen without breaking any physical laws, it <em class="calibre8">must</em> happen. But it hasn't. And yet the ‘many universes’ theory works. Without it, no one would ever be able to make a decision at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So what people do matters!” said Sweeper. “People invent <em class="calibre8">other</em> laws. What they do is <em class="calibre8">important</em>! The Abbot's very excited about this. He nearly swallowed his rusk. It means the multiverse isn't infinite and people's choices are far more vital than they think. They can, by what they do, change the universe.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper gave Vimes a long look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mister Vimes, you're thinking: I'm back in time, and damn me, I'm probably going to end up being the sergeant that teaches me all I know, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've been wondering. The Watch would offer any gutter trash a job in those days, because of the curfew and all the spying. But look, I remember Keel and, yes, he did have a scar and an eye-patch but I'm sure as hell that he wasn't me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. The universe doesn't work like that. <em class="calibre8">You</em> were indeed taken under the wing of one John Keel, a watchman from Pseudopolis who came to Ankh-Morpork because the pay was better. He was a real person. He was not you. But do you remember if he ever mentioned to you that he was attacked by two men not long after he got off the coach?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hell, yes,” said Vimes. “The muggers. He got this—he got <em class="calibre8">his</em> scar that way. A good old Ankh-Morpork welcome. But he was a tough man. Took 'em both down, no problem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This time, there were three,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, three's trickier, of course, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're the policeman. You guess the name of the third man, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hardly had to think. The answer erupted from the depths of darkest suspicion. “Carcer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He soon settled in, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The bastard was in the next cell! He even told me he'd grabbed some money.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you're both stuck here, Mister Vimes. This isn't <em class="calibre8">your</em> past any more. Not exactly. It's <em class="calibre8">a</em> past. And up there is <em class="calibre8">a</em> future. It might be your future. But it might not be. You want to go home now, leaving Carcer here and the real John Keel dead? But there'll be no home to go to, if you could do that. Because young Sam Vimes wouldn't get a swift course in basic policing from a decent man if you did. He'll learn it from people like Sergeant Knock and Corporal Quirke and Lance-Corporal Colon. And that might not be the worst of it, by a long way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shut his eyes. He remembered how wet behind the ears he'd been. And Fred…well, Fred Colon hadn't been too bad, under the half-hearted timorousness and lack of imagination, but Quirke had been an evil little sod in his way and as for Knock, well, Knock had been Fred's teacher and the pupil wasn't a patch on the master. What had Sam Vimes learned from Keel? To stay alert, to think for himself, to keep a place in his head free from the Quirkes and Knocks of the world, and not to hesitate about fighting dirty today if that was what it took to fight again tomorrow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd often thought he'd have been dead long ago if it wasn't for—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked up sharply at the monk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't tell you that, Mister Vimes,” said Lu-Tze. “Nothing's certain, 'cos of quantum.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But, look, I know my future happened, because I was there!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. What we've got here, friend, is quantum interference. Mean anything? No. Well…let me put it this way. There's one past, and one future. But there are two presents. One where you and your evil friend turned up, and one where you didn't. We can keep these two presents going side by side for a few days. It takes a lot of run time, but we can do it. And then they'll snap back together. The future that happens depends on you. We want the future where Vimes is a good copper. Not the other one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it must've happened!” snapped Vimes. “I told you, I can remember it! I was there yesterday!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice try, but that doesn't mean anything any more,” said the monk. “Trust me. Yes, it's happened to you, but even though it has, it might not, 'cos of quantum. Right now, there isn't a Commander Vimes-shaped hole in the future to drop you into. It's officially Uncertain. But might not be, if you do it right. You owe it to yourself, commander. Right now, out there, Sam Vimes is learning to be a very bad copper indeed. And he learns fast.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The little monk stood up. “I'll let you think about that,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded, staring at the gravel garden.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper crept away quietly and went back into the temple. He walked to the other side of the office. He removed a strange-shaped key from around his neck and inserted it into a small door. The door opened. Brilliant sunlight burst ahead of him. He walked on, his sandals leaving the cold flagstones and walking on to well-trodden earth in broad, hot daylight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The river had a different course this far back in the past, and present-day residents of Ankh-Morpork would have been surprised at how pleasant it looked, seven hundred thousand years ago. Hippos sunbathed on a sandbank out in mid-stream and, according to Qu, were getting troublesome lately—he'd had to set up a little temporal fence around the camp at nights, so that any hippo trying to wander in among the tents found themselves back in the water with a headache.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Qu himself, his straw hat protecting his head from the hot sun, was supervising his assistants in a vined-off area. Lu-Tze sighed as he walked towards it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were going to be explosions, he knew it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that he disliked Qu, the order's Master of Devices. The man was a sort of engineering equivalent of the Abbot. The Abbot had taken thousand-year-old ideas and put them through his mind in a new way, and as a result the multiverse had opened for him like a flower. Qu, on the other hand, had taken the ancient technology of the Procrastinators, that could save and restore time, and had harnessed it to practical, everyday purposes, such as, yes, blowing people's heads off. It was something that Lu-Tze tried to avoid. There were better things to do with people's heads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As Lu-Tze approached, a line of joyful, dancing monks wove their way along a bamboo replica of a street, letting off firecrackers and banging gongs. As they reached a corner the last monk turned and lightly tossed a little drum into the outstretched arms of a straw dummy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The air shimmered, and the figure disappeared with a small thunderclap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice to see something not blowing anyone's head off,” said Lu-Tze, leaning on the vine rope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello, Sweeper,” said Qu. “Yes. I wonder what went wrong. You see, the body should have moved forward by a microsecond and left the head where it was.” He picked up a megaphone. “Thank you, everyone! Places for another run! Soto, take over, please!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to Lu-Tze. “Well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's thinking about it,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, for heavens' sake, Lu-Tze! This is completely unauthorized, you know! We're supposed to prune out rogue history loops, not expend vast amounts of time keeping them going!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This one's important. We owe it to the man. It wasn't his fault we had the major temporal shattering just as he fell through the dome.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two timelines running side by side,” moaned Qu. “That's quite unacceptable, you know. I'm having to use techniques that are completely untried.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but it's only a few days.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about Vimes? Is he strong enough? He's got no training for this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He defaults to being a copper. A copper's a copper, wherever he is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I really don't know why I listen to you, Lu-Tze, I really don't,” said Qu. He glanced at the arena and hurriedly raised his megaphone to his lips. “Don't hold it that way up! I said <em class="calibre8">don't</em> hold—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a thunderclap. Lu-Tze didn't bother to look round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Qu lifted the megaphone again and said, wearily, “All right, someone <em class="calibre8">please</em> go and fetch Brother Kai, will you? Start looking around, oh, two centuries ago. You don't even use these very useful devices I, er, devise,” he added to Lu-Tze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't need to,” said Lu-Tze. “Got a brain. Anyway, I use the temporal toilet, don't I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A privy which discharges ten million years into the past was not a good idea, Sweeper. I'm sorry I let you persuade me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's saving us fourpence a week to Harry King's bucket boys, Qu, and that's not to be sneezed at. Is it not written: ‘a penny saved is a penny earned’? Besides, it all lands in a volcano anyway. Perfectly hygienic.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was another explosion. Qu turned and raised his megaphone. “Do not bang the tambourine more than twice!” he bellowed. “It's tap-tap-throw-duck! <em class="calibre8">Please</em> pay attention!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned back to Sweeper. “Four more days at most, Lu-Tze,” he said. “I'm sorry, but after that I can't hide it in the paperwork. And I'll be amazed if your man can stand it. It'll affect his mind sooner or later, however tough you think he is. He's not in his right time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're learning a lot, though,” Lu-Tze insisted. “After a perfectly logical chain of reasons Vimes ended up back in time even <em class="calibre8">looking</em> rather like Keel! Eyepatch <em class="calibre8">and</em> scar! Is that Narrative Causality or Historical Imperative or just plain weird? Are we back to the old theory of the self-correcting history? Is there no such thing as an accident, as the Abbot says? Is every accident just a higher-order design? I'd love to find out!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Four days,” Qu insisted. “Any longer than that and this little exercise will show up and the Abbot will be very, very annoyed with us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, Qu,” said Sweeper meekly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'll be annoyed if he <em class="calibre8">has</em> to find out, certainly, he thought as he walked back to the door in the air. He'd been very specific. The Abbot of the History Monks (the Men In Saffron, No Such Monastery…they had many names) couldn't allow this sort of thing, and he'd taken pains to forbid Lu-Tze from this course of action. He had added, “but when you do, I expect Historical Imperative will win.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36380984" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper went back to the garden and found Vimes still staring at the empty baked-bean tin of Universal Oneness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, commander?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you really like…policemen, for time?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, in a way,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So…you make sure the good stuff happens?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, not the good stuff. The right stuff,” said Sweeper. “But frankly, these days, we have our work cut out making sure <em class="calibre8">anything</em> happens. We used to think time was like a river, you could row up and down and come back to the same place. Then we found it acted like a sea, so you could go from side to side as well. Then it turned out to be like a <em class="calibre8">ball</em> of water; you could go up and down too. Currently we think it's like…oh, lots of spaces, all rolled up. And then there are time jumps and time slips and humans mess it up too, wasting it and gaining it. And then there's quantum, of course.” The monk sighed. “There's <em class="calibre8">always</em> bloody quantum. So what with one thing and another, we think we're doing well if yesterday happens before tomorrow, quite frankly. You, Mister Vimes, got caught up in a bit of…an event. We can't put it right, not properly. You can.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat back. “I've got no choice, have I?” he said. “As my old sergeant used to say…you do the job that's in front of you.” He hesitated. “And that's going to be me, isn't it? <em class="calibre8">I</em> taught me all I know…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I explained.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't understand it. But perhaps I don't have to.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper sat down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. And now, Mister Vimes, I'll take you back inside and I'll give you some background on the sergeant and we'll work out what you <em class="calibre8">need</em> to know from all this, and we can set up a little loop so that you can tell yourself what you need to know. No addresses, though!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what'll happen to me?” said Vimes. “The me sitting here now? The…er…other me walks away and me, this me, you understand…Well, what happens?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper gave him a long, thoughtful look. “Y'know,” he said, “it's very hard to talk quantum using a language originally designed to tell other monkeys where the ripe fruit is. Afterwards? Well, there will be a you. As much you as you are now, so who can say it's not you? This meeting will be…a sort of loop in time. In one sense, it will never end. In a way, it'll be—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like a dream,” said Vimes wearily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper brightened. “Very good! Yes! Not true, but a very, very good lie!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, you could've just told me everything,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I wouldn't be able to tell you everything and you, Mister Vimes, aren't in the mood for games like that. This way, a man you trust—that's you—will tell you all the truth you need to know. Then we'll do a little of what the younger acolytes call ‘slicing and glueing’, and Mister Vimes will go back to Treacle Mine Lane a little wiser.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How are you going to get hi—me back to the Watch House? Don't even think about giving me some kind of potion.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. We'll blindfold you, twirl you round, take you the long way, and walk you back. I promise.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any other advice?” said Vimes gloomily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just be yourself,” said Sweeper. “See it through. There'll come a time when you'll look back and see how it all made sense.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wouldn't lie. It'll be a perfect moment. Believe me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But…” Vimes hesitated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You must know there's another little problem if I'm going to be Sergeant Keel. I've remembered what day this is. And I know what's going to happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Sweeper. “I know, too. Shall we talk about that?”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36381133" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Tilden blinked. “What happened there?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where?” said Vimes, trying to fight down nausea. Time coming back had left him with a horrible sensation that he was really two people and neither of them was feeling at all well.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre8">blurred</em>, man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps I'm a bit tired of this,” said Vimes, pulling himselves together. “Listen, captain, I am John Keel. I can prove it, okay? Ask me some questions. You've got my papers there, haven't you? They were stolen!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden hesitated for a moment. He was a man whose mind was ponderous enough to have momentum; it was quite hard for his thoughts to change direction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who is Commander of the Pseudopolis Watch, then?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sheriff Macklewheel,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha! Wrong! Fallen at the very first fence, what? In fact, you fool, it's Sheriff Pearlie—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnah, excuse me, sir…” said Snouty nervously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes? What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnah, it <em class="calibre8">is</em> Macklewheet, sir. Pearlie died last week. Heard it in the, hnah, pub.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fell into the river when drunk,” said Vimes helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what I heard, hnah, sir,” said Snouty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden looked furious. “You could've known that, what?” he said. “It doesn't prove anything!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ask me something else, then,” said Vimes. “Ask me what Macklewheet said about me.” And I just hope I've got the answers right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Said I was the best officer on his force and he was sorry to see me go,” said Vimes. “Said I was of good character. Said he wished he could pay me the twenty-five dollars a month I was going to get here—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never offered you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you offered me twenty dollars and now that I've seen the mess here I'm not taking it!” Vimes rejoiced. Tilden hadn't even learned how to control a conversation. “If you pay Knock twenty dollars he owes you nineteen dollars change! The man couldn't talk and chew gum at the same time. And look at this, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dumped his handcuffs on the desk. The gaze of Snouty and Tilden swung to them as if magnetic.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh <em class="calibre8">dear</em>, thought Vimes, and stood up and lifted the crossbow out of Snouty's hands. It was all in the movement. If you moved with authority, you got a second or two extra. Authority was everything.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He fired the bow at the floor, then handed it back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A kid could open those cuffs and while Snouty here keeps a very clean jail he's completely drawers at being a guard,” said Vimes. “This place needs shaking up.” He leaned forward, knuckles on the captain's desk, with his face a few inches from the trembling moustache and the milky eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Twenty-five dollars or I walk out that door,” he said. It was probably a phrase never ever said before by any prisoner anywhere on any world.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Twenty-five dollars,” murmured Tilden, hypnotized.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the rank will be sergeant-at-arms,” said Vimes. “Not sergeant. I'm not going to be given orders by the likes of Knock.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant-at-arms,” said Tilden distantly, but Vimes saw the hint of approval. It was a good <em class="calibre8">military</em>–sounding title, and it was still on the books. In fact it was a pretty ancient pre-coppering term, back in the days when a court employed a big man with a stick to drag miscreants in front of it. Vimes had always admired the simplicity of that arrangement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, er, Sheriff Macklewheet, er, certainly gave you a most glowing reference,” said the captain, shuffling the papers. “Very glowing. Things have been a little difficult since we lost Sergeant Wi—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I'll be paid my first month in advance, please. I need clothes and a decent meal and somewhere to sleep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden cleared his throat. “Many of the unmarried men stay in the barracks in Cheapside—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not me,” said Vimes. “I'll be lodging with Doctor Lawn in Twinkle Street.” Well, Rosie Palm did suggest he had a spare room…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The pox, hnah, doctor?” said Snouty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I'm particular about the company I keep,” said Vimes. “It's also just around the corner.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took his hands off the desk, stood back and whipped off a salute of almost parodic efficiency, the sort that Tilden had always loved.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll report for duty at three o'clock tomo—this afternoon, sir,” he said. “Thank you, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden sat mesmerized.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was twenty-five dollars, sir, I believe,” said Vimes, still maintaining the salute.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched the captain get up and go to the old green safe in the corner. The man was careful not to let Vimes see him turn the dial, but Vimes was pretty certain he didn't need to. The safe had still been there when he made captain, and by then everyone knew the combination was 4-4-7-8 and that no one seemed to know how to change it. The only things worth keeping in it had been the tea and sugar and anything you particularly wanted Nobby to read.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden came back with a small leather bag and slowly counted out the money, and was so cowed that he didn't ask Vimes to sign anything.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took it, saluted again, and held out his other hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Badge, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah? Oh, yes, of course…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain, entirely unnerved, fumbled in the top drawer of the desk and pulled out a dull copper shield. If he'd been that observant, he'd have noticed how hungrily Vimes's eyes watched it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The new sergeant-at-arms picked up his badge with care and saluted yet again. “Oath, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, er, that thing? Er, I believe I've got it written down somewh—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a deep breath. This probably wasn't a good idea, but he was flying now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I comma square bracket recruit's name square bracket comma do solemnly swear by square bracket recruit's deity of choice square bracket to uphold the Laws and Ordinances of the city of Ankh-Morpork comma serve the public truft comma and defend the fubjects of His ftroke Her bracket delete whichever is inappropriate bracket Majefty bracket name of reigning monarch bracket without fear comma favour comma or thought of perfonal fafety semi-colon to purfue evildoers and protect the innocent comma laying down my life if necefsary in the caufe of said duty comma so help me bracket aforefaid deity bracket full stop Gods Save the King stroke Queen bracket delete whichever is inappropriate bracket full stop.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My word, well done,” said Tilden. “You <em class="calibre8">have</em> come well prepared, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now it's the King's Shilling, sir,” said Vimes insistently, soaring on wings of audacity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have to take the King's Shilling, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…do we have a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's, hnah, in the bottom drawer, sir,” said Snouty helpfully. “On the bit of string.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh yes,” said Tilden, beaming. “It's a long time since we used that, what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After some rummaging, Tilden produced the coin. It was a genuine old shilling, probably worth half a dollar now just for its silver and thus, coppers being coppers, it had always been dropped into the new copper's hand and then tugged away before it was pinched.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had taken the oath once. He wondered if taking it twice cancelled it out. But it needed to be done and you had at least <em class="calibre8">touch</em> the Shilling. He felt the weight in his palm and took a small shameful pleasure in closing his fingers on it before the captain had time to drag it back. Then, point made, he released the grip.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a final salute he turned, and tapped Snouty on the shoulder. “With the captain's permission, I'd like a chat with you outside, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vimes strode out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty looked at Tilden, who was still sitting as though hypnotized, the Shilling dangling from his fist. The captain managed to say, “Good man, that. Ver' good…got backbone…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnah, I'll just go an' see what he wants, sir,” said Snouty, and scuttled out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He had reached the end of the corridor when a hand came out of the shadows and pulled him close.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a useful man to know, Snouty,” hissed Vimes. “I can tell.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir,” said Snouty, held half on tiptoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've got your ear to the ground, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's someone in every nick who knows all that's going on and can lay his hands on just about anything, Snouty, and I think you are that man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnah, yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then listen here,” said Vimes. “Size eight boots, size seven-and-a-quarter helmet, a <em class="calibre8">good</em> leather cape. The boots should be a good make but second-hand. Got that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Second-hand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Soles pretty nearly worn through.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Soles pretty nearly worn through, hnah, check,” said Snouty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Breastplate not to have any rust on it but a few dents will be okay. A <em class="calibre8">good</em> sword, Snouty, and believe me I know a good sword when I hold one. As for all the rest of the stuff, well, I <em class="calibre8">know</em> a man like you can get hold of the very best and have it delivered to Dr Lawn's place in Twinkle Street by ten this morning. And there'll be something in it for you, Snouty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What'll that be, sir?” said Snouty, who was finding the grip uncomfortable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My undying friendship, Snouty,” said Vimes. “Which is going to be an extremely rare coin in these parts, let me tell you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, sarge,” said Snouty. “And will you be wanting a bell, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For ringing and shouting, hnah, ‘all's well!’ with, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes considered this. A bell. Well, every copper still got a bell, it was down there in the regulations, but Vimes had banned its use on anything but ceremonial occasions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No bell for me, Snouty,” said Vimes. “Do <em class="calibre8">you</em> think things are well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty swallowed. “Could go either way, sarge,” he managed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good man. See you this afternoon.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a glow of dawn in the sky when Vimes strode out, but the city was still a pattern of shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In his pocket was the reassuring heaviness of the badge. And in his mind the huge, huge freedom of the oath. Ruler after ruler had failed to notice what a devious oath it was…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked as steadily as he could down to Twinkle Street. A couple of watchmen tried to waylay him, but he showed them the badge and more importantly he had the <em class="calibre8">voice</em> now, it had come back to him. It was night and he was walking the streets and he <em class="calibre8">owned</em> the damn streets and somehow that came out in the way he spoke. They'd hurried off. He wasn't sure they'd believed him, but at least they'd pretended to; the <em class="calibre8">voice</em> had told them he could be the kind of trouble they weren't paid enough to deal with.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At one point he had to step aside as a very thin horse dragged a huge and familiar four-wheeled wagon over the cobbles. Frightened faces looked out at him from between the wide metal strips that covered most of it, and then it disappeared into the gloom. Curfew was claiming its nightly harvest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">These were not good times. Everyone knew Lord Winder was insane. And then some kid who was equally mad had tried to knock him off and would have done, too, if the man hadn't moved at the wrong moment. His lordship had taken the arrow in the arm, and they said—<em class="calibre8">they</em> being the nameless people of the kind that everyone met in the pub—that the wound had poisoned him and made him worse. He suspected everyone and everything, he saw dark assassins in every corner. The rumour was that he woke up sweating every night because they even got into his dreams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he saw plots and spies everywhere throughout his waking hours, and had men root them out, and the thing about rooting out plots and spies everywhere is that, even if there are no real plots to begin with, there are plots and spies galore very soon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At least the Night Watch didn't have to do much of the actual rooting. They just arrested the pieces. It was the <em class="calibre8">special</em> office in Cable Street that was the long hand of his lordship's paranoia.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Particulars, they were officially, but as far as Vimes could remember they'd revelled in their nickname of the “Unmentionables”. They were the ones that listened in every shadow and watched at every window. That was how it seemed, anyway. They certainly were the ones who knocked on doors in the middle of the night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped, in the dark. The cheap clothes were soaked through, the boots were flooded, rain was trickling off his chin and he was a long, long way from home. Yet, in a treacherous kind of way, <em class="calibre8">this</em> was home. He'd spent most of his days working nights. Walking through the wet streets of a sleeping city was his life.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The nature of the night changed, but the nature of the beast remained the same.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached into the ragged pocket and touched the badge again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the darkness where lamps were few and far between, Vimes knocked on a door. A light was burning in one of the lower windows, so Lawn was presumably still awake.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while a very small panel slid back and he heard a voice say, “Oh…it's you.” There was a pause, followed by the sound of bolts being released.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The doctor opened the door. In one hand he held a very long syringe. Vimes found his gaze inexorably drawn to it. A bead of something purple dripped off the end and splashed on to the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What would you have done, <em class="calibre8">injected</em> me to death?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This?” Lawn looked at the instrument as if unaware that he'd been holding it. “Oh…just sorting out a little problem for someone. Patients turn up at all hours.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll bet they do. Er…Rosie said you had a spare room,” said Vimes. “I can pay,” he added quickly. “I've got a job. Five dollars a month? I won't be needing it for long.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Upstairs on the left,” said Lawn, nodding. “We can talk about it in the morning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not a criminal madman,” said Vimes. He wondered why he said it, and then wondered who he was trying to reassure.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never mind, you'll soon fit in,” said Lawn. There was a whimper from the door leading to the surgery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The bed's not aired but I doubt that you'll care,” he said. “And now, if you'll excuse me…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't aired, and Vimes didn't care. He didn't even remember getting into it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He woke up once, in panic, and heard the sound of the big black wagon rattling down the street. And then it just, quite seamlessly, became part of the nightmare.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36381668" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">At ten o'clock in the morning Vimes found a cold cup of tea by his bed and a pile of clothes and armour on the floor outside the door. He drank the tea while he inspected the pile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd read Snouty right. The man survived because he was a weathercock and kept an eye on which way the wind was blowing, and right now the wind was blowing due Vimes. He'd even included fresh socks and drawers, which hadn't been in the specification. It was a thoughtful touch. They probably hadn't been paid for, of course. They had been “obtained”. This was the <em class="calibre8">old</em> Night Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But, glory be, the breathy little crawler had scrounged something else, too. The three stripes for a sergeant had a little gold crown above them. Vimes instinctively disliked crowns, but this was one he was prepared to treasure.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He went downstairs, doing up his belt, and bumped into Lawn coming out of his surgery, wiping his hands on a cloth. The doctor smiled absently, then focused on the uniform. The smile did not so much fade as drain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shocked?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Surprised,” said the doctor. “Rosie won't be, I expect. I don't do anything illegal, you know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you've got nothing to fear,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? That <em class="calibre8">proves</em> you're not from round here,” said Lawn. “Want some breakfast? There's kidneys.” This time it was Vimes's smile that drained. “Lamb,” the doctor added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the tiny kitchen he prised the lid off a tall stone jar and pulled out a can. Vapour poured off it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ice,” he said. “Get it from over the road. Keeps food fresh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's brow wrinkled. “Over the road? You mean the mortuary?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't worry, it's not been used,” said Lawn, putting a pan on the stove. “Mr Garnish drops off a lump a few times a week, in payment for being cured of a rather similar medical condition.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But mostly you work for the ladies of, shall we say, negotiable affection?” said Vimes. Lawn gave him a sharp look to see if he was joking, but Vimes's expression hadn't changed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not just them,” he said. “There are others.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People who come in by the back door,” said Vimes, looking around the little room. “People who for one reason or another don't want to go to the…better known doctors?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Or can't afford them,” said Lawn. “People who turn up with no identity. And you had a point…<em class="calibre8">John</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no, just asking,” said Vimes, cursing himself for walking right into it. “I just wondered where you trained.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The kind of people who come in by the back door are the kind of people who want results, I imagine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah. Well, I trained in Klatch. They have some novel ideas about medicine over there. They think it's a good idea to get patients better, for one thing,” he turned over the kidneys with a fork. “Frankly, sergeant, I'm pretty much like you. We do what needs doing, we work in, er, unpopular areas and I suspect we both draw the line somewhere. I'm no butcher. Rosie says you aren't. But you do the job that's in front of you, or people die.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll remember that,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And when all's said and done,” said Lawn, “there are worse things to do in the world than take the pulse of women.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After breakfast Sergeant-at-Arms John Keel stepped out into the first day of the rest of his life.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood still for a moment, shut his eyes, and swivelled both feet like a man trying to stub out two cigarettes at once. A slow, broad smile spread across his face. Snouty had found just the right kind of boots. Willikins and Sybil between them conspired to prevent him wearing old, well-worn boots these da—those days, and stole them away in the night to have the soles repaired. It was good to <em class="calibre8">feel</em> the streets with dry feet again. And after a lifetime of walking them, he <em class="calibre8">did</em> feel the streets. There were the cobblestones: catheads, trollheads, loaves, short and long setts, rounders, Morpork Sixes, and the eighty-seven types of paving brick, and the fourteen types of stone slab, and the twelve types of stone never intended for street slabs which had got used anyway, and had their own patterns of wear, and the rubbles and the gravels, and the repairs, and the thirteen different types of cellar cover and twenty types of drain lid—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He bounced a little, like a man testing the hardness of something. “Elm Street,” he said. He bounced again. “Junction with Twinkle. Yeah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't many steps to Treacle Mine Road, and as he turned towards the Watch House a flash of colour caught his eye.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And there it was, overhanging a garden wall. Lilac was common in the city. It was vigorous and hard to kill and had to be. The flower buds were noticeably swelling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood and stared, as a man might stare at an old battlefield.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">…they rise hands up, hands up, hands up…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">How did it go, now? Think of things happening one after the other. Don't assume that you know what's going to happen, because it might not. Be yourself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, because he was himself, he made a few little purchases in little shops in dark alleys, and went to work.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Treacle Mine Road Night Watch House was generally deserted around midday, but Vimes knew that Snouty, at least, would be there. He was a Persistent Floater, just like Nobby and Colon and Carrot and, when you got down to it, Vimes as well. Being on duty was their default state of being. They hung around the Watch House even when off duty, because that's where their lives took place. Being a copper wasn't something you left hanging by the door when you went home.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But I promise I'll learn how, thought Vimes. When I get back, it'll all be different.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He went around the back and let himself in by the stable entrance. It wasn't even locked. Black mark right there, lads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The iron bulk of the hurry-up wagon stood empty on the cobbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind it was what they called, now, the stables. In fact, the stables were only the bottom floor of what would have been part of Ankh-Morpork's industrial heritage, if anyone had ever thought of it like that. In practice they thought of it as junk that was too heavy to cart away. It was part of the winding gear from a treacle mine, long since abandoned. One of the original lifting buckets was still up there, glued to the floor by its last load of the heavy, sticky, unrefined treacle which, once set, was tougher than cement and more waterproof than tar. Vimes remembered, as a kid, begging chippings of pig treacle off the miners; one lump of that, oozing the sweetness of prehistoric sugar cane, could keep a boy's mouth happily shut for a week.<a href="#_ftn6" title="6. In the same way that ancient forests become coal, ancient swaths of natural sugar cane can become, under the pressure of millennia, what in various parts of the Disc is known as hokey-pokey, pig treacle or rock molasses. But much boiling and purification was necessary to create the thick golden syrup that was the city dweller's honey, and these days Ankh-Morpork's supplies come from the more accessible toffee beds near Quirm."><sup class="calibre11">6</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Inside the treacle-roofed stable level, chewing a bit of bad hay, was the horse. Vimes knew it was a horse because it checked out as one: four hooves, tail, head with mane, seedy brown coat. Considered from another angle, it was half a ton of bones held together with horsehair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He patted it gingerly; as one of nature's pedestrians, he'd never been at home around horses. He unhooked a greasy clipboard from a nail near by and flicked through its pages. Then he had another look around the yard. Tilden never did that. He looked at the pigsty in the corner where Knock kept his pig, and then at the chicken run, and the pigeon loft, and the badly made rabbit hutches, and he did a few calculations.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The old Watch House! It was all there, just like the day he first arrived. It had been two houses once, and one of them had been the treacle mine office. Everywhere in the city had been something else once. And so the place was a maze of blocked-in doorways and ancient windows and poky rooms.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wandered around like a man in a museum. See the old helmet on a stick for archery practice! See Sergeant Knock's broken-springed armchair, where he used to sit out on sunny afternoons!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, inside, the smell: floor wax, stale sweat, armour polish, unwashed clothes, ink, a hint of fried fish and always, here, a taint of treacle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Night Watch. He <em class="calibre8">was</em> back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the first members of the Night Watch came in they found a man perfectly at ease, leaning back in a chair with his feet on a desk and leafing through paperwork. The man had sergeant's stripes and an air of an unsprung trap. He was also giving absolutely no attention to the newcomers. He particularly paid no heed to one gangly lance-constable who was still new enough to have tried to put a shine on his breastplate…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They fanned out among the desks, with muttered conversations.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes knew them in his soul. They were in the Night Watch because they were too scruffy, ugly, incompetent, awkwardly shaped or bloody-minded for the Day Watch. They were honest, in that special policeman sense of the word. That is, they didn't steal things too heavy to carry. And they had the morale of damp gingerbread.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd wondered last night about giving them some kind of pep talk by way of introduction, and decided against it. They might be very bad at it but they <em class="calibre8">were</em> coppers, and coppers did not respond well to the Happy Families approach: “Hello, chaps, call me Christopher, my door is always open, I'm sure if we all pull together we shall get along splendidly like one big happy family.” They'd seen too many families to fall for that rubbish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone cleared their throat with malice aforethought. Vimes glanced up and into the face of Sergeant “Knocker” Knock and, for a fraction of a second, had to suppress the urge to salute. Then he remembered what Knock was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre8">my</em> desk you're sitting at, sergeant,” said Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed, and pointed to the little crown on his sleeve. “See this, sergeant?” he said. “It's what they used to call the hat of authority.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock's little weaselly eyes focused on the crown. And then they went back to Vimes's face, and widened in the shock of recognition.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bloody hell,” breathed Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's ‘bloody hell, <em class="calibre8">sir</em>,’” said Vimes. “But ‘sarge’ will do. Most of the time. And this is your mob, is it? Oh dear. Well, let's make a start.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He swung his feet off the desk and stood up. “I've been looking at the feed bills for Marilyn,” he said. “Interesting reading, lads. According to my rough calculations a horse eating that much ought to be approximately spherical. Instead, she's so thin that with two sticks and some sheet music I could give you a tune.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes put the papers down. “Don't think I don't know where the corn goes. I bet I know who's got the chickens and rabbits and pigeons,” he said. “And the pig. I bet the captain thinks they get fat on leftovers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but—” a voice began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's hand slammed on the desk. “You lot even starve the damn horse!' he said. That stops right now! So will a lot of other things. I know how it works, see? Mumping free beer and a doughnut, well, that's part of being a copper. And who knows, there might even be a few greasy spoons in this town so <em class="calibre8">happy</em> to see a copper that they will spontaneously offer him a free nosh. Stranger things have happened. But nicking the oats from Marilyn, that stops now. And another thing. Says here that last night the hurry-up wagon had eight passengers,” he said. “Two of them I know about, 'cos one of them must've been me and I met the other man. The cells are empty this morning. What happened to the other six? Sergeant Knock?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sergeant licked his lips nervously. “Dropped 'em off in Cable Street for questioning, o'course,” he said. “As per instructions.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you get a receipt?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your men hauled in six people who were staying out late and you handed them over to the Unmentionables,” said Vimes, with the calm that comes before a storm. “Did they sign for them? Do you even know their names?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Orders is just to hand 'em over,” said Knock, trying a little defiance. “Hand 'em over and come away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes filed that for future reference and said: “Now, I didn't get taken there 'cos we had a bit of a…misunderstanding. And as you can see it was a bigger misunderstanding than you thought, because I'm <em class="calibre8">not</em> down in the Tanty counting cockroaches, Knock. No, indeed.” He took a few steps forward. “I am standing in <em class="calibre8">front</em> of you, Knock. Isn't that what I'm doing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge,” Knock muttered, pale with fear and fury.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge,” said Vimes. “But there was another man in the cells, and he's gone too. All I want to know is: how much, and who to? I don't want any looks of cherubic innocence, I don't want any ‘don't know what you're talking about, sir’, I just want to know: how much, and who to?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A cloud of red, resentful solidarity settled over the faces in front of him. But he didn't need telling. He could <em class="calibre8">remember</em>. Corporal Quirke always had a private income from bribes; he'd been like Nobby Nobbs without the latter's amiable incompetence. An <em class="calibre8">efficient</em> Nobby, in fact, and you could throw into the mix bullying and brown-nosing and a delight in small evils.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's gaze fell on Quirke, and stayed there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know you were on the wagon last night, corporal,” he said. “You and Lance-Constable, er, Vimes, it says here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Not worth worrying anyone if they look a decent sort,” Quirke said</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">And he'd said: “How can we tell they're a decent sort, corp</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Well, see how much they can afford</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">You mean we let 'em go if they're rich</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Way of the world, lad, way of the world. No reason why we shouldn't get our share, eh? Did you see his moneybag? Five dollars should do it. Four for me and one for you, 'cos you're learning. That's nearly three days' pay, it'll cheer up your ol' mum no end, and where's the loser</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">But suppose he's nicked the money, corp</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Suppose the moon was made of cheese? Would you like a slice</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it was five dollars, corporal,” said Vimes, and watched the man's lizard eyes flash towards the young lance-constable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, the man in the cell talked,” lied Vimes. “Told me I was an idiot not to buy my way out. So, Mister Quirke, it's like this. They're crying out for good men in the Day Watch, but if you don't stand too close to the light you might pass. Get along there right now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everybody does it!” Quirke burst out. “It's <em class="calibre8">perks</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everybody?” said Vimes. He looked around at the squad. “Anyone else here take bribes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His glare ran from face to face, causing most of the squad to do an immediate impression of the Floorboard and Ceiling Inspectors Synchronized Observation Team. Only three members met his gaze. There was Lance-Corporal Colon, who could be a little slow. There was a certain lance-constable, whose face was a mask of terror. And there was a dark-haired, round-faced constable who seemed to be puzzled, as if he was trying to remember something, but who nevertheless stared back with the firm steady gaze of the true liar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apparently not,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Quirke's finger shot out and vibrated in the direction of the young Sam Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He shared it! He shared it!” he said. “You ask him!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt the shock run round the squad. Quirke had just committed suicide. You hung together against officers, fair enough, but when the jig was up you did not Drop Someone In The Cacky. They'd laugh at the idea of a watchman's honour, but it did exist in a blackened, twisty way. You Did Not Drop Your Mates In The Cacky. And especially you did not do it to a wet-behind-the-ears rookie who wouldn't know any better.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned, for the first time, to the young man he'd been avoiding.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Gods, was I ever that skinny? he thought. Did I ever have that much Adam's apple? Did I really try to polish rust?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The young man's eyes were almost back in his head, only the whites showing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lance-Constable Vimes, isn't it?” he said quietly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!” said Sam hoarsely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At ease, lance-constable. Did you in fact take a share of the bribe?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir! A dollar, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At the instigation of Corporal Quirke?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did he offer it to you?” Vimes translated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched his own agony. You Did Not Drop Someone In The Cacky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right,” he said at last. “I'll talk to you later on. Oh, you still here, Quirke? If you want to complain to the captain, that's fine by me. But if you don't get your stuff out of your locker in ten minutes I'll damn well charge you rent!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Quirke looked around for immoral support, and found none. He'd gone too far. Besides, the Watch could see a storm of cacky when it was right overhead and were in no mood to stick their necks out for something like Quirke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will,” he said. “I <em class="calibre8">will</em> complain to the captain. You'll see. You'll see. I've got four years' good conduct, I have—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, that was four years' Not Found Out,” said Vimes. “Clear off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When Quirke's footsteps had died away Vimes glared at the squad.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good afternoon, lads, my name's John Keel,” he said. “We bloody well better get along fine. Now shine up, captain's inspection in two minutes, off you go…Sergeant Knock, a word, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The men dispersed hurriedly. Knock stepped forward, not quite managing to conceal his nervousness. After all, his immediate superior now was a man who, last night, he had kicked in the nadgers. People could hold a grudge about a thing like that. And he'd had time to think.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd just like to say, sir, about last night—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not bothered about last night,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you recommend Fred Colon for corporal? I'd value your judgement.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You would?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly. He looks a solid lad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He is? I mean, yes, he is. Very thorough,” said Knock, relief rising off him like steam. “Doesn't rush into things. Wants to join one of the regiments.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, we'll give him a try while we've still got him. That means we'll need another lance-corporal. Who was that lad next to Colon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Coates, sir. Ned Coates. Bright lad, sometimes thinks he knows better, but we were all like that, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. His expression completely failed to give away the fact that, as far as he was concerned, there were things clinging to the underside of high branches that knew better than Sergeant Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A taste of responsibility might do him some good, then,” he said. Knock nodded, because at that point he would have agreed to absolutely anything. And his body language was saying: we're all sergeants together, right? We're talking about sergeanty things, like sergeants do. We're not bothered about anyone being kicked in the nadgers, eh? Not us! 'cos we're sergeants.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His eyes widened, and he saluted as Tilden entered the office. There was some half-hearted saluting among the squad, too. The captain acknowledged them stiffly, and looked nervously at Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, sergeant;” he said. “Settling in?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. No problems.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done. Carry on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the man had disappeared up the creaking stairs Vimes turned back to Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant, we don't hand over prisoners without a receipt, understand? Never! What happens to them afterwards? Do you <em class="calibre8">know</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They get questioned,” said Knock. “We takes 'em up there for questioning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind of questions? How long it takes two men to dig half a hole?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” Knock's brow knitted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“From now on, someone at Cable Street signs for prisoners or we bring them right back here,” said Vimes. “It's bloody <em class="calibre8">elementary</em>, sergeant. You hand 'em over, you get a docket. Don't you do that down at the Tanty?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yeah, obviously, but…well, Cable Street…I mean, you don't know what it's like here, I can see that, but with the Unmentionables round at Cable Street it's best not to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Listen, I'm not telling you to kick the door down and shout ‘put down those thumbscrews!’” said Vimes. “I'm telling you we keep <em class="calibre8">track</em> of prisoners. When you arrest a man, you sign him over to Snouty, don't you? When he leaves, Snouty or the orderly man signs him out, doesn't he? It's basic custody discipline, man! So if you hand a prisoner over to Cable Street, someone <em class="calibre8">there</em> gives you a signature. Understand? No one just <em class="calibre8">disappears</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock's face showed a man contemplating an immediate future that contained fewer opportunities for personal gain and a greatly raised risk of being shouted at.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And just to make sure everyone understands, I'll ride the wagon tonight,” said Vimes. “But first I'll take that lad Vimes out for a stroll and shake him up a bit.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He could do with it,” said Knock. “Can't get his mind right. Good with his hands but you have to tell him everything twice.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Maybe I'll shout, then,” said Vimes. “Vimes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lance-Constable Vimes shivered to attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're going to take a stroll, lad,” said Vimes. “Time you knew what's what,” he nodded to Knock, took his younger self by the shoulder, and marched out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What d'you think, sarge?” said Coates, coming up behind Knock as the sergeant glared at the departing back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He likes <em class="calibre8">you</em>,” said Knock bitterly. “Oh, <em class="calibre8">yes</em>. Apple of his eye, <em class="calibre8">you</em> are. You're his ol' pal. <em class="calibre8">You're</em> being bumped up to lance-corporal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Think he'll last?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll give him a couple of weeks,” said Knock. “I've seen 'em like that before. Big men in little towns, coming here, thinking they're the bee's nose. We soon cut 'em down to size. What d'you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno, sarge,” said Coates. “Still thinking.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Knows his coppering, mind you,” said Knock. “Bit too cocky though. He'll learn. He'll learn. There's ways. We'll show him. Take him down a peg. Teach him how we do things around here—”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36382460" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes always preferred to walk by himself. And now there were two of him, walking by himself. It was a strange sensation, and gave him the impression that he was looking through a mask.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, not like that,” he said. “I always have to teach people to walk. You swing the foot, like this. Get it right and you can keep going all day. You're not in a hurry. You don't want to miss things.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge,” said young Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was called proceeding. Vimes proceeded along Treacle Mine Road, and felt—magnificent. Of <em class="calibre8">course</em> there were lots of things to worry about, but right here and now all he had to do was patrol, and it felt fine. Not much paperwork in the old Watch; in fact, come to think of it he'd probably doubled it. All he had to do right now was his duty, as he'd been taught it. He had nothing to do but be himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Young Sam wasn't saying much. That was good sense.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see you've got a bell there, lad,” said Vimes, after a while.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Regulation bell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge. Sergeant Knock gave it to me.” I'll bet he did, thought Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When we get back, just you swap it for someone else's. Doesn't matter whose. No one'll say anything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge.” Vimes waited. “Why, sarge? A bell's a bell.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not that one,” said Vimes. “That's three times the weight of the normal bell. They give it to rookies to see what they do. Did you complain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's the way. Keep quiet, and pass it on to some other sucker when we get back. That's the coppers' way. Why did you come into the job, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My mate Iffy joined last year. He said you got free food and a uniform and you could pick up the extra dollar here and there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd be Iffy Scurrick stationed over in the Dolly Sisters house, then,” said Vimes. “And you've been picking up the odd dollar, have you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They walked in silence for a moment. Then Sam said: “Have I got to give that dollar back, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you <em class="calibre8">worth</em> a dollar?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I gave it our mum, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you tell her how you got it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't want it!” Sam blurted out. “But Corporal Quirke said—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was he worth listening to?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't know? I bet your mum didn't bring you up to think like that,” said Vimes. No, she bloody well didn't, he thought. She'd tan your hide, copper or not, if she knew it was a dodgy dollar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge. But they're all at it, sarge. I don't mean the lads, sarge, but you only have to look round the city. Our rent's going up, taxes go up, there's these new taxes all the time, and it's all just cruel, sarge, it's cruel. Winder sold us all to his mates, and that's a fact, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm,” said Vimes. Oh, yes. Tax farming. What a clever invention. Good old Winder. He'd flogged the right to collect taxes to the highest bidders. What a great idea, nearly as good as banning people from carrying weapons after dark. Because a) you saved the cost of tax collectors and the whole revenue system b) you got a wagonload of cash up front. And c) the business of tax gathering then became the business of groups of powerful yet curiously reticent people who kept out of the light. However, they employed people who not only went out in the light but positively blocked it, and it was amazing what those people found to tax, up to and including Looking At Me, Pal. What was it Vetinari had said once? “Taxation is just a sophisticated way of demanding money with menaces”? Well, the tax farmers were very unsophisticated in the way they went about recouping their investment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He remembered those da—<em class="calibre8">these</em> days. The city had never seemed poorer, but by the gods there was a lot of tax being paid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hard to explain to a kid like Sam why poncing a dollar when you got the chance was a bad thing to do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Put it like this, lance-constable,” as they turned the corner. “Would you let a murderer off for a thousand dollars?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A thousand dollars'd set your mum up in a nice place in a good part of town, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Knock it off, sarge, I'm not like that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were when you took that dollar. Everything else is just a haggling over the price.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They walked in sullen silence. Then:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Am I going to get the sack, sarge?” said the lance-constable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For a dollar? No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd just as soon be sacked, sarge, thanks all the same,” said young Sam defiantly. “Last Friday we had to go and break up some meeting over near the University. They were just talking! And we had to take orders from some <em class="calibre8">civilian</em>, and the Cable Street lads were a bit rough and…it's not like the people had weapons or anything. You can't tell me <em class="calibre8">that's</em> right, sarge. And then we loaded some of 'em into the hurry-up, just for talking. Mrs Owlesly's boy Elson never came home the other night, too, and they say he was dragged off to the palace just for saying his lordship's a loony. Now people down our street are looking at me in a funny way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ye gods, I remember, thought Vimes. I thought it was all going to be chasing men who gave up after the length of a street and said “It's a fair cop, guv'nor”. I thought I'd have a medal by the end of the week.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want to be careful what you say, lad,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but our mum says it's fair enough if they take away the troublemakers and the weirdies but it's not right them taking away ordinary people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Is this <em class="calibre8">really</em> me? Vimes thought. Did I really have the political awareness of a head louse?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, he is a loony. Snapcase is the man we ought to have.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…and the self-preservation instincts of a lemming?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Kid, here's some advice. In this town, right now, if you don't know who you're talking to—don't talk.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but Snapcase says—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Listen</em>. A copper doesn't keep flapping his lip. He doesn't let on what he knows. He doesn't say what he's thinking. No. He watches and listens and he learns and he bides his time. His mind works like mad but his face is a blank. Until he's ready. Understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Can you use that sword you have there, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I did the training, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine. Fine. The training. Fine. So if we're attacked by a lot of sacks of straw hanging from a beam, I can rely on you. And until then shut up, keep your ears open and your eyes peeled and <em class="calibre8">learn</em> something.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snapcase is the man to save us, he thought glumly. Yeah, I used to believe that. A lot of people did. Just because he rode around in an open carriage occasionally and called people over and talked to them, the level of the conversation being on the lines of: “So you're a carpenter, are you? Wonderful! What does that job entail?” Just because he said publicly that perhaps taxes were a bit on the high side. Just because he <em class="calibre8">waved</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You been here before, sarge?” said Sam, as they turned a corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, everyone's visited Ankh-Morpork, lad,” said Vimes jovially.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only we're doing the Elm Street beat perfectly, sarge, and I've been letting you lead the way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Damn. That was the kind of trouble your feet could get you into. A wizard once told Vimes that there were monsters up near the Hub that were so big they had to have extra brains in their legs, 'cos they were too far away for one brain to think fast enough. And a beat copper grew brains in his feet, he really did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Elm Street, left into The Pitts, left again into The Scours…it was the first beat he'd ever walked, and he could do it without thinking. He <em class="calibre8">had</em> done it without thinking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do my homework,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you recognize Ned?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was a good thing that he was leaving his feet to their own devices, because Vimes's brain suddenly filled with warning bells.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ned?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only before you came he said he thought he remembered you from Pseudopolis,” said Sam, oblivious of the clamour. “He was in the Day Watch there before he came here 'cos of better promotion prospects. Big man, he said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't say I recall him,” said Vimes, with care.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not all that big, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, Ned was probably shorter in those days,” said Vimes, while his thoughts shouted: shut up, kid! But the kid was…well, him. Niggling at little details. Tugging at things that didn't seem to fit right. Being a copper, in fact. Probably he ought to feel proud of his younger self, but he didn't.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You're not me, he thought. I don't think I was ever as young as you. If you're <em class="calibre8">going</em> to be me, it's going to take a lot of work. Thirty damn years of being hammered on the anvil of life, you poor bastard. You've got it all to come.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36382792" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Back at the Watch House, Vimes wandered idly over to the Evidence and Lost Property cupboard. It had a big lock on it which was not, however, ever locked. He soon found what he was looking for. An unpopular copper needed to think ahead, and he intended to be unpopular.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he had a bite of supper and a mug of the thick brown cocoa on which the Night Watch ran and took Sam out on the hurry-up wagon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd wondered how the Watch was going to play it and wasn't surprised to find they were using the old dodge of obeying orders to the letter with gleeful malignancy. At the first point he made, Lance-Corporal Coates and Constable Waddy were waiting with four sullen or protesting insomniacs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Four, <em class="calibre8">sah</em>,” said Coates, ripping off a textbook salute. “All we've apprehended <em class="calibre8">sah</em>. All written down on this chitty what I am giving to you at this moment in time <em class="calibre8">sah</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, lance-corporal,” said Vimes, drily, taking the paperwork, signing one copy and handing it back. “You may have a half-holiday at Hogswatch, and give my regards to your granny. Help 'em in with 'em, Sam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We usually only get four or five on a round, sir!” Sam whispered, as they pulled away. “What'll we do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Make several journeys,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But the lads were taking the pi—the michael, sir! They were laughing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's past curfew,” said Vimes. “That's the law.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Colon and Constable Wiglet were waiting at their post with three miscreants.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of them was Miss Palm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave Sam the reins and jumped down to open the back of the wagon and fold down the steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry to see you here, miss,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apparently some new sergeant's been throwing his weight around,” said Rosie Palm, in a voice of solid ice. She refused his hand haughtily, and climbed up into the wagon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes realized that one of the other detainees was a woman, too. She was shorter than Rosie, and was giving him a look of pure bantam defiance. She was also holding a huge quilted workbasket. Out of reflex Vimes took it, to help her up the steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry about this, miss—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get your hands off that!” She snatched the basket back and scrambled into the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon <em class="calibre8">me</em>,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is Miss Battye,” said Rosie, from the bench inside the wagon. “She's a seamstress.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I assumed she—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A <em class="calibre8">seamstress</em>, I said,” said Miss Palm. “With <em class="calibre8">needles</em> and <em class="calibre8">thread</em>. Also specializes in crochet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, is that a kind of extra—” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a type of knitting,” said Miss Battye, from the darkness of the wagon. “Fancy you not knowing that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean she's a <em class="calibre8">real</em>–” said Vimes, but Rosie slammed the iron door. “You just drive us on,” she said, “and when I see you again, John Keel, we are going to have <em class="calibre8">words</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some sniggering from the shadows inside the wagon, and then a yelp. It had been immediately preceded by the noise of a spiky heel being driven into an instep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes signed the grubby form presented to him by Fred Colon and handed it back with a solid, fixed expression that made the man feel rather worried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where to now, sarge?” said Sam, as they pulled away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cable Street,” said Vimes. There was a murmur of dismay from the crated people behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's not right,” muttered Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're playing this by the rules,” said Vimes. “You're going to have to learn why we have rules, lance-constable. And don't you eyeball me. I've been eyeballed by experts, and <em class="calibre8">you</em> look as if you're desperate for the privy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, all right, but everyone knows they torture people,” mumbled Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do they?” said Vimes. “Then why doesn't anyone do anything about it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'cos they torture people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ah, at least I was getting a grasp of basic social dynamics, thought Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sullen silence reigned in the seat beside him as the wagon rumbled through the streets, but he was aware of whispering behind him. Slightly louder than the background, he heard Rosie Palm's voice hiss: “He won't. I'll bet anything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few seconds later a male voice, slightly the worse for drink and very much the worse for bladder-twisting dread, managed:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sergeant, we…er…believe the fine is five, er, dollars?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think it is, sir,” said Vimes, keeping his eyes on the damp streets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some more frantic whispering, and then the voice said: “Er…I have a very nice gold ring.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Glad to hear it, sir,” said Vimes. “Everyone should have something nice,” He patted his pocket for his silver cigar case, and for a moment felt more anger than despair, and more sorrow than anger. There was a future. There had to be. He remembered it. But it only existed as that memory, and that was fragile as the reflection on a soap bubble and, maybe, just as easily popped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…I could perhaps include—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you try to offer me a bribe one more time, sir,” said Vimes, as the wagon turned into Cable Street, “I shall personally give you a thumping. Be told.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps there is some other—” Rosie Palm began, as the lights of the Cable Street House came into view.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're not at home to a tuppenny upright, either,” said Vimes, and heard the gasp. “Shut up, the lot of you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reined Marilyn to a halt, jumped down and pulled his clipboard from under the seat. “Seven for you,” he said, to the guard lounging against the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?” said the guard. “Open it up and let's be having them, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes, flicking through the paperwork. “No problem.” He thrust the clipboard forward. “Just sign here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man recoiled as though Vimes had tried to offer him a snake.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What d'ya mean, sign?” he said. “Hand 'em over!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You sign,” said Vimes woodenly. “That's the rules. Prisoners moved from one custody to another, you have to sign. More'n my job's worth, not to get a signature.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your job's not worth spit,” snarled the man, grabbing the board. He looked at it blankly, and Vimes handed him a pencil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you need any help with the difficult letters, let me know,” he said helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Growling, the guard scrawled something on the paper and thrust it back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now open up, <em class="calibre8">p-lease</em>,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly,” said Vimes, glancing at the paper. “But now I'd like to see some form of ID, thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not me, you understand,” said Vimes, “but if I went back and showed my captain this piece of paper and he said to me, Vi—Keel, how d'you <em class="calibre8">know</em> he's Henry the Hamster, well, I'd be a bit…flummoxed. Maybe even perplexed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Listen, we don't sign for prisoners!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">We</em> do, Henry,” said Vimes. “No signature, no prisoners.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you'll stop us taking 'em, will you?” said Henry the Hamster, taking a few steps forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You lay a hand on that door,” said Vimes, “and I'll—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Chop it off, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—I'll arrest you,” said Vimes. “Obstruction would be a good start, but we can probably think of some more charges back at the station.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Arrest me? But I'm a copper, same as you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wrong again,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is thetrouble…here?” said a voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A small, thin figure appeared in the torchlight. Henry the Hamster took a step back, and adopted a certain deferential pose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Officer won't hand over the curfew breakers, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And this is the officer?” said the figure, lurching towards Vimes with a curiously erratic gait.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes found himself under cool and not openly hostile inspection from a pale man with the screwed-up eyes of a pet rat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” said the man, opening a little tin and taking out a green throat pastille. “Would you be Keel, by anychance? I have been…hearing about you.” The man's voice was as uncertain as his walk. Pauses turned up in the wrong places.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You hear about things quickly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A salute is generally in order, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't see anything to salute, sir,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Goodpoint. Goodpoint. You are new, of course. But, you see, we in theParticulars…often find it necessary to wearplain…clothes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Like rubber aprons, if I recall correctly, thought Vimes. Aloud, he said: “Yes, sir.” It was a good phrase. It could mean any of a dozen things, or nothing at all. It was just punctuation until the man said something else.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm Captain Swing,” said the man. “Findthee Swing. If you think the name is amusing, pleasesmirk…and get it over with. You may now salute.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saluted. Swing's mouth turned up at the corners very briefly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Your first night on our hurry-up wagon, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you're here so early. With a full load, too. Shall we take alook…at your passengers?” He glanced in between the ironwork. “Ah. Yes. Good evening, Miss Palm. And an associate, I see—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do crochet!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and what appear to be some party-goers. Well, well.” Swing stood back. “What little scamps your street officers are, to be sure. They really <em class="calibre8">have</em> scoured the streets. How they love their…littlejokes, sergeant.” Swing put his hand on the wagon door's handle and there was a little noise which was nevertheless a thunderclap in the silence, and it was the sound of a sword moving very slightly in its scabbard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing stood stock still for a moment and then delicately popped the pastille into his mouth. “Aha. I think that perhaps this little catch can be…thrownback, don't you, sergeant? We don't want to make a mockery of…thelaw. Take them away, take them away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But just onemoment, please, sergeant. Indulge me…just a little hobby of mine</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing had reached into a pocket of his over-long coat and pulled out a very large pair of steel calipers. Vimes flinched as they were opened up to measure the width of his head, the width of his nose and the length of his eyebrows. Then a metal ruler was pressed against one ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">While doing this, Swing was mumbling under his breath. Then he closed the calipers with a snap, and slipped them back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I must congratulateyou, sergeant,” he said, “in overcoming your considerable natural disadvantages. Do you know you have the eye of a mass murderer? I am neverwrong…in these matters.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nosir. Didn't know that, sir. Will try to keep it closed, sir,” said Vimes. Swing didn't crack a smile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“However, I'm sure that when you have settled in you and Corporal, aha, Hamster here will get along like a…houseonfire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A house on fire. Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don'tlet…me detain you, Sergeant Keel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saluted. Swing nodded, turned in one movement, as though he was on a swivel, and strode back into the Watch House. Or jerked, Vimes considered. The man moved in the same way he talked, in a curious mixture of speeds. It was as if he was powered by springs; when he moved a hand, the first few inches of movement were a blur, and then it gently coasted until it was brought into conjunction with whatever was the intended target. Sentences came out in spurts and pauses. There was no <em class="calibre8">rhythm</em> to the man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes ignored the fuming corporal and climbed back on to the wagon. “Turn us round, lance-constable,” he said. “G'night, Henry.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam waited until the wheels were rumbling over the cobbles before he turned, wide-eyed, to Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were going to draw on him, weren't you?” he said. “You were, sarge, weren't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just keep your eyes on the road, lance-constable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But that was Captain Swing, that was! And when you told that man to prove he was Henry the Hamster, I thought I'd widd—choke! You knew they weren't going to sign, right, sarge? 'cos if there's a bit of paper saying they've got someone, then if anyone wants to find out—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just drive, lance-constable.” But the boy was right. For some reason, the Unmentionables both loved and feared paperwork. They certainly generated a lot of it. They wrote everything down. They didn't like appearing on other people's paperwork, though. That worried them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't believe we got away with it, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">We probably haven't, Vimes thought. But Swing has enough to worry him at the moment. He doesn't <em class="calibre8">care</em> very much about a big stupid sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and banged on the ironwork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry for the inconvenience, ladies and gentlemen, but it appears the Unmentionables are not doing business tonight. Looks like <em class="calibre8">we'll</em> have to do the interrogation ourselves. We're not very experienced at this, so I hope we don't get it wrong. Now, listen carefully. Are any of you serious conspirators bent on the overthrow of the government?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a stunned silence from within the wagon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, come on,” said Vimes. “I haven't got all night. Does anyone want to overthrow Lord Winder by force?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well…no?” said the voice of Miss Palm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Or by crochet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">heard</em> that!” said another female voice sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one? Shame,” said Vimes. “Well, that's good enough for me. Lance-constable, is it good enough for you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, yes, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In that case we'll drop you all off on our way home, and my charming assistant Lance-Constable Vimes will take, oh, half a dollar off each of you for travelling expenses for which you <em class="calibre8">will</em> get a receipt. Thank you for travelling with us, and we hope you will consider the hurry-up wagon in all your future curfew-breaking arrangements.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes could hear shocked whispering behind him. This was not how things were supposed to go these days.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge,” said Lance-Constable Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you really got the eye of a mass murderer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the pocket of my other suit, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah.” Sam was quiet for a while, and when he spoke again he seemed to have something new on his mind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's a tuppenny upright, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a kind of jam doughnut, lad. Did your mum ever make 'em?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge. Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it probably means something else as well, sarge,” said Sam, sniggering. “Something a bit…rude—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The whole of life is a learning process, lance-constable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They got the wagon back to the yard ten minutes later, and by that time Vimes knew that a new rumour was fanning out across the city. Young Sam had already whispered things to the other officers as the curfew-breakers were dropped off, and nobody gossips like a copper. They didn't like the Unmentionables. Like petty criminals everywhere, the watchmen prided themselves that there were some depths to which they would not sink. There had to be some things below you, even if it was only mudworms.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36383419" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rosie Palm bolted the door of her flat, leaned on it and stared at Sandra.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What <em class="calibre8">is</em> he?” said Sandra, dumping her workbasket on the table. It clanked within. “Is he on <em class="calibre8">our</em> side?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You heard the lads!” snapped Rosie. “No bribes now! And then he drags us off to Swing's bastards and <em class="calibre8">then</em> he won't hand us over! I could kill him! I rescued him from the gutter, got Mossy to patch him up and suddenly he's playing big silly games!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, what <em class="calibre8">is</em> a tuppenny upright?” said Sandra brightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Miss Palm paused. She quite enjoyed Sandra's company and the extra rent certainly came in handy, but there were times she wondered whether a) she should have a talk with the girl or b) she was being very gently wound up. She suspected the latter, since Sandra was taking more money than her most of the time. It was getting embarrassing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a kind of jam doughnut,” she said. “Now, you'd better go and hide the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone knocked on the door behind her. She motioned Sandra through the bead curtain, took a moment to pull herself together, and opened the door a fraction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a very small old man standing in the hall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Everything about him sloped hopelessly downwards. His grey moustache could have been stolen from a walrus, or a bloodhound that had just been given some very bad news. His shoulders sagged listlessly. Even parts of his face seemed to be losing the battle with gravity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He held his cap in his hands and was twisting it nervously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, it said ‘seamstress’ on the sign,” the old man mumbled. “An', well, since my ol' woman died, you know, what with one thing an' another, never bin any good at doing it for meself—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He gave Rosie a look of sheer, helpless embarrassment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She glanced down at the sack by his feet, and picked it up. It was full of very clean, but very worn, socks. Every single one had holes in the heel and toe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sandra,” she said, “I think this one's for you…”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36383502" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was so very early in the morning that “late at night” wasn't quite over. White mist hung everywhere in the streets, and deposited droplets like tiny pearls on Vimes's shirt as he prepared to break the law.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If you stood on the roof of the privy behind the Watch House and steadied yourself on the drainpipe, one of the upstairs windows would bounce open if you hit it with the palm of your hand in exactly the right place.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a useful bit of information, and Vimes wondered if he should pass it on to young Sam. Every honest copper ought to know how to break into his own nick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden had limped home long ago, but Vimes did a quick sweep of his office and it was with great satisfaction that he did not see what he hadn't expected to be there. Down below, a few of the more conscientious officers were signing off before heading home. He waited in the shadows until the door had banged shut for the last time and there were no footsteps for several minutes. Then he made his way down the stairs and into the locker room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He had been issued with a key to his own locker, but still oiled the hinge from a small bottle before he opened it. He had not in fact put anything in there yet but, behold, there was a rumpled sack on the floor. He lifted it up…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well <em class="calibre8">done</em>, lads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Inside was Captain Tilden's silver inkwell.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood up, and looked around at the lockers, with their ancient carved initials and occasional knife marks on the doors. He pulled from his pocket the little black cloth roll he'd taken from the evidence locker earlier. A selection of lock picks glinted in the grey light. Vimes wasn't a genius with the hooks and rakes, but the cheap and worn door locks were hardly a major challenge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Really, it was just a matter of choosing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And afterwards he walked back through the mists.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was horrified to find he was feeling good again. It was a betrayal of Sybil and the future Watch and even of His Grace Sir Samuel Vimes, who had to think about the politics of distant countries and manpower requirements and how to raise that damn boat that River Division kept sinking. And, yes, he wanted to go back, or forwards or across or whatever. He really did. He wanted to go home so much he could taste it. Of course he did. But he couldn't, not yet, and here he was and as Dr Lawn said, you did the job. And currently the job involved survival on the street in the great game of Silly Buggers, and Vimes knew all about that game, oh yes. And there was a thrill in it. It was the nature of the beast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And thus he was walking along, lost in thought, when the men jumped him from the mouth of a shadowy alley.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The first one got a foot in the stomach, because the beast does not fight fair. Vimes stepped aside and grabbed the other one. He felt the knife skitter along his breastplate as he lowered his head and tugged the man hard into the helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man folded up quite neatly on the cobbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes spun around to the first man, who was bent almost double, and wheezing, but had nevertheless kept hold of his knife, which he waved around in front of him like some kind of talisman. The point made erratic figures-of-eight in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Drop it,” said Vimes. “I won't ask again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sighed, and pulled an object out of his back pocket. It was black and tapered and made of leather filled with lead shot. He'd banned them in the modern Watch but he knew some officers had acquired them, and if he judged the man to be sensible then he <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> know they'd got them. Sometimes an argument had to be ended quickly, and there were worse alternatives.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He brought the blackjack down on the man's arm, with a certain amount of care. There was a whimper and the knife bounced off the cobbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll leave your chum to sleep it off,” he said. “But <em class="calibre8">you</em> are coming to see the doctor, Henry. Are you coming quietly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few minutes later Dr Lawn opened his back door and Vimes brushed past, the body over his shoulders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You minister to all sorts, right?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Within reason, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This one's an Unmentionable,” said Vimes. “Tried to kill me. Needs some medicine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why's he unconscious?” said the doctor. He was wearing a huge rubber apron, and rubber boots.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Didn't want to take his medicine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn sighed, and with a hand that held a mop he waved Vimes towards an inner door. “Bring him right into the surgery,” he said. “I'm afraid I'm cleaning up after Mr Salciferous in the waiting room.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why, what did <em class="calibre8">he</em> do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He burst.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, his natural inquisitiveness suddenly curbed, carried the body into Lawn's inner sanctum. It looked little different from when Vimes had last seen it, but then he'd barely been capable of taking in details. There was the table, and a workbench, and all along one wall were racks of bottles. No two bottles were the same size. In one or two of them, things floated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On another wall were the instruments.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When I die,” said Lawn, inspecting the patient, “I'm going to instruct them to put a bell on my tombstone, just so's I can have the pleasure of not getting up when people ring. Put him down, please. Looks like concussion.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was me hitting him,” said Vimes helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You broke his arm too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You made a very neat job of it. Easy to set it and plaster him up. Is there something wrong?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was still staring at the instruments. “You use all these?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Some of them are experimental, though,” said Lawn, busying himself at his work table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I'd hate you to use this on me,” said Vimes, picking a strange instrument like a couple of paddles tied with string. Lawn sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant, there are no circumstances where the things you're holding could possibly be used on you,” he said, his hands working busily. “They are…of a feminine nature.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For the seamstresses?” said Vimes, putting the pliers down in a hurry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Those things? No, the ladies of the night take pride these days in never requiring that sort of thing. My work with them is more of, shall we say, a preventative nature.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Teaching them to use thimbles, that sort of thing?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it's amazing how far you can push a metaphor, isn't it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes prodded the paddles again. They were quite alarming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're married, sergeant?” said Lawn. “Was Rosie right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…yes. My wife is, er, elsewhere, though.” He picked the things up and dropped them hastily again, with a clatter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's just as well to be aware that giving birth isn't like shelling peas,” said the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I should bloody well hope not!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Although I have to say the midwives seldom refer anything to me. They say men shouldn't fish around where they don't belong. We might as well be living in caves.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn looked down at his patient. “In the words of the philosopher Sceptum, the founder of my profession: am I going to get paid for this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes investigated the moneybag on the man's belt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Will six dollars do it?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why would the Unmentionables attack <em class="calibre8">you</em>, sergeant? You're a policeman.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am, but they aren't. Don't you know about them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've patched up a few of their guests, yes,” said Lawn, and Vimes noted the caution. It didn't pay to know too much in this town. “People with curious dislocations, hot wax burns…that sort of thing—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I had a little brush with Captain Swing last night,” Vimes said, “and he was as polite as hell to me about it, but I'd bet my boots he knows that this lad and his friend came after me. That's his style. He probably wanted to see what I'd do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's not the only one interested in you,” said Lawn. “I got a message that Rosie Palm wants to see you. Well, I assume she meant you. ‘That ungrateful bastard’ was the actual term she used.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I owe her some money,” said Vimes, “but I've no idea how much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't ask me,” said Lawn, smoothing the plaster with his hand. “She generally names her price up front.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean the finder's fee, or whatever it was!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I know. Can't help you there, I'm afraid,” said Lawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched him working for a while, and said, “Know anything about Miss Battye?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The seamstress? She hasn't been here long.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And she's <em class="calibre8">really</em> a seamstress?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For the sake of precision,” said Dr Lawn, “let us say she's a needlewoman. Apparently she heard there was a lot of work for seamstresses in the big city and had one or two amusing misunderstandings before someone told her exactly what was meant. One of them involved me removing a crochet hook from a man's ear last week. Now she just hangs out with the rest of the girls.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because she's making a fortune, that's why,” said the doctor. “Hasn't it ever occurred to you, sergeant, that sometimes people go to a massage parlour for a <em class="calibre8">real</em> massage, for example? There's ladies all over this city with discreet signs up that say things like ‘Trousers repaired while you wait’ and a small but significant number of men make the same mistake as Sandra. There's lots of men work here in the city and leave their wives back home and sometimes, you know, a man feels these…urges. Like, for a sock without holes and a shirt with more than one button. The ladies pass on the work. Apparently it's quite hard to find a really good needlewoman in this city. They don't like being confused with, er, seamstresses.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just wondered why she hangs around street corners after curfew with a big sewing basket…” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn shrugged. “Can't help you there. Right, I've finished with this gentleman. It'd be helpful if he lies still for a while.” He indicated the racks of bottles behind him. “About how long will you want him to lie still for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can do that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. It's not accepted Ankh-Morpork medical practice, but since Anhk-Morpork medical practice would consist of hitting him on the head with a mallet he's probably getting the best of the deal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, I meant that you doctors aren't supposed to hurt people, are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only in the course of normal incompetence. But I don't mind sending him to sleepy land for another twenty minutes. Of course, if you want to wham him with the mallet I can't stop you. The last guest of Swing I treated had several fingers pointing entirely the wrong way. So if you'd like to give him a few wallops for good luck I could point out some quite sensitive areas—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No thanks. I'll just haul him out the back way and drop him in an alley.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. <em class="calibre8">Then</em>…I'll sign my name on his damn plaster cast. So he sees it when he wakes up. In bloody big letters so it won't rub off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now that's what I call a sensitive area,” said Lawn. “You're an interesting man, sergeant. You make enemies like a craftsman.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've never been interested in needlework,” said Vimes, hoisting the man on his shoulder. “But what sort of things would a needlewoman have in her workbasket, do you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I don't know. Needles, thread, scissors, wool…that kind of thing,” said Mossy Lawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not very heavy things, then?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not really. Why d'you ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no reason,” said Vimes, making a small mental note. “Just a thought. I'll go and drop off our friend here while I've still got some mist to lurk in.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine. I'll have breakfast on when you get back. It's liver. Calf's.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36383915" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Beast remembers. This time, Vimes slept soundly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He had always found it easier to sleep during the day. Twenty-five years on nights had ground their nocturnal groove in his brain. Darkness was easier, somehow. He knew how to stand still, a talent that few possess, and how to merge into the shadows. How to guard, in fact, and see without being seen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He remembered Findthee Swing. A lot of it was history. The revolt would have happened with Swing or without him but he was, as it were, the tip of the boil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd been trained at the Assassins' School and should never have been allowed to join the Watch. He had too much <em class="calibre8">brain</em> to be a copper. At least, too much of the wrong kind of brain. But Swing had impressed Winder with his theories, had been let in as a sergeant and then was promoted to captain immediately. Vimes had never known why; it was probably because the officers were offended at seeing such a fine genn'lman pounding the streets with the rest of the oiks. Besides, he had a weak chest, or something.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes wasn't against intellect. Anyone with enough savvy to let go of a doorknob could be a street monster in the old days, but to make it above sergeant you needed a grab-bag of guile, cunning and street wisdom that could pass for “intelligence” in a poor light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing, though, started in the wrong place. He didn't look around, and watch and learn, and then say, “This is how people are, how do we deal with it?” No, he sat and thought: “This is how the people ought to be, how do we change them?” And that was a good enough thought for a priest but not for a copper, because Swing's patient, pedantic way of operating had turned policing on its head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There had been that Weapons Law, for a start. Weapons were involved in so many crimes that, Swing reasoned, reducing the number of weapons <em class="calibre8">had</em> to reduce the crime rate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes wondered if he'd sat up in bed in the middle of the night and hugged himself when he'd dreamed <em class="calibre8">that</em> one up. Confiscate all weapons, and crime would go down. It made sense. It would have worked, too, if only there had been enough coppers—say, three per citizen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Amazingly, quite a few weapons were handed in. The flaw, though, was one that had somehow managed to escape Swing, and it was this: criminals don't obey the law. It's more or less a requirement for the job. They had no particular interest in making the streets safer for anyone except themselves. And they couldn't believe what was happening. It was like Hogswatch every day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some citizens took the not unreasonable view that something had gone a bit askew if only naughty people were carrying arms. And they got arrested in large numbers. The average copper, when he's been kicked in the nadgers once too often and has reason to believe that his bosses don't much care, has an understandable tendency to prefer to arrest those people who won't instantly try to stab him, especially if they act a bit snotty and wear more expensive clothes than he personally can afford. The rate of arrests shot right up, and Swing had been very pleased about that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Admittedly some of the arrests had been for possessing weaponry after dark, but quite a few had been for assaults on the Watch by irate citizens. That was Assault on a City Official, a very heinous and despicable crime and, as such, far more important than all these thefts that were going on everywhere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that the city was lawless. It had plenty of laws. It just didn't offer many opportunities not to break them. Swing didn't seem to have grasped the idea that the system was supposed to take criminals and, in some rough and ready fashion, force them into becoming honest men. Instead, he'd taken honest men and turned them into criminals. And the Watch, by and large, into just another gang.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then, just when the whole wretched stew was thickening, he'd invented craniometries.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Bad coppers had always had their ways of finding out if someone was guilty. Back in the old days—hah, <em class="calibre8">now</em>–these included thumbscrews, hammers, small pointed bits of wood and, of course, the common desk drawer, always a boon to the copper in a hurry. Swing didn't need any of this. He could tell if you were guilty by looking at your eyebrows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He measured people. He used calipers and a steel ruler. And he quietly wrote down the measurements, and did some sums, such as dividing the length of the nose by the circumference of the head and multiplying it by the width of the space between the eyes. And on such figures he could, <em class="calibre8">infallibly</em>, tell that you were devious, untrustworthy and congenially criminal. After you had spent the next twenty minutes in the company of his staff and their less sophisticated tools of inquiry he would, amazingly, be proved right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Everyone was guilty of something. Vimes knew that. Every copper knew it. That was how you maintained your authority—everyone, talking to a copper, was secretly afraid you could see their guilty secret written on their forehead. You couldn't, of course. But neither were you supposed to drag someone off the street and smash their fingers with a hammer until they told you what it was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing would probably have ended up face down in some alley somewhere if it wasn't for the fact that Winder had found in him a useful tool. No one could sniff out conspiracies like Swing. And so he'd ended up running the Unmentionables, most of whom made Sergeant Knock look like Good Copper Of The Month. Vimes had always wondered how the man had kept control, but maybe it was because the thugs recognized, in some animal way, a mind which had arrived at thuggery by the long route and was capable of devising in the name of reason the kind of atrocities that unreason could only dream of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't easy, living in the past. You couldn't whack someone for what they were going to do, or what the world was going to find out later. You couldn't warn people, either. You didn't know what could change the future, but if he understood things right, history tended to spring back into shape. All you could change was the bits around the edges, the fine details. There was nothing he could do about the big stuff. The lilac was going to bloom. The revolution was going to happen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well…a <em class="calibre8">kind</em> of revolution. That wasn't really the word for what it was. There was the People's Republic of Treacle Mine Road (Truth! Justice! Freedom! Reasonably priced Love! And a Hard-Boiled Egg!) that would live for all of a few hours, a strange candle that burned too briefly and died like a firework. And there was the scouring of the house of pain, and the—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Anyway…you did the job that was in front of you, like unimaginative coppers always did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He got up around one in the afternoon. Lawn was closeted in his surgery, doing something that involved some serious whimpering on the part of something else. Vimes knocked on the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a moment it was opened a fraction. Dr Lawn was wearing a face mask and holding a very long pair of tweezers in his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm going out,” said Vimes. “Trouble?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not too bad. Slidey Harris was unlucky at cards last night, that's all. Played an ace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's an unlucky card?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is if Big Tony knows he didn't deal it to you. But I'll soon have it removed. If you're going to injure anyone tonight, can you do it <em class="calibre8">before</em> I go to bed? Thank you.” Lawn shut the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded at the woodwork, and went out to stretch his legs and get some lunch. It was waiting for him, on a tray, around the neck of a man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Quite a young man, now, but there was something about the expression, as of a rat who was expecting cheese right around the next corner, and had been expecting cheese around the last corner too, and the corner before that, and, although the world had turned out so far to be full of corners yet completely innocent of any cheese at all, was nevertheless quite certain that, just around the corner, cheese awaited.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared. But why should he be surprised? As long ago as he could remember, there was <em class="calibre8">always</em> someone selling highly suspicious chemically reclaimed pork products in this town. The seller was very familiar. Just…younger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His expression lit up at the sight of an unfamiliar face. The seller liked to meet people who hadn't yet bought one of his pies.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, sergeant…Hey, what's the little crown mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant-at-arms,” said Vimes. “That's like ‘sergeant with all the trimmings’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, sergeant, could I interest you in a very special sausage inna bun? Guaranteed no rat? One hundred per cent organic? All pork shaved before mixing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Why not? thought Vimes. And his stomach, liver, kidneys and lengths of intestine all supplied reasons, but he fumbled in his pocket for some change anyway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How much, Mr…er,” Vimes remembered in time, and made a show of looking at the name on the front of the tray, “Dibbler?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Four pence, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that's cutting your own throat, eh?” said Vimes jovially.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?” said Dibbler, looking puzzled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said, a price like that's cutting your own throat, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cutting my own…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Throat,” said Vimes desperately.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh.” Dibbler thought about this. “Right. Yeah. It is. You never said a truer word. So you'll have one, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I notice it says on your tray ‘Dibbler Enterprises, Est’,” said Vimes. “Shouldn't it say <em class="calibre8">when</em> you were established?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Should it?” Dibbler looked down at his tray.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long have you been going?” said Vimes, selecting a pie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's see…what year is this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…Dancing Dog, I think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Since Tuesday, then,” said Dibbler. His face brightened. “But this is only the start, mister. This is just to get a stake together. In a year or two I'm going to be a big man in this town.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe you,” said Vimes. “I really do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Dibbler looked down at his tray again as Vimes strolled off. “Cutting my own throat, cutting my own throat,” he mumbled to himself, and seemed to like the sound of it. But then he focused more clearly on the tray and his face went pale.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant!” he shouted. “Don't eat the pie!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, a few yards away, stopped with the pie halfway to his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's wrong with it?” he said. “Silly me. I mean, what's <em class="calibre8">uniquely</em> wrong with it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing! I mean…these are better!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes risked another look at the tray. They all looked the same to him. Dibbler's pies quite often looked appetizing. Therein lay their one and only charm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't see any difference,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, yeah, there <em class="calibre8">is</em>,” said Dibbler, sweat beading on his forehead. “See? The one you got has that little pattern of pastry pigs on it? And all the others have pastry sausages? I'd hate you to think that, you know, I thought you were a pig or anything, so if you'll hand it over I'll happily give you, er, another one, that one's not the right one, er, not that it's a wrong one, but, er, with the pig and everything…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked into the man's eyes. Dibbler had yet to learn that friendly blankness that thirty years of selling <em class="calibre8">truly</em> organic pies would call into being.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">While the man stared in horror, he took a large bite out of the pie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was everything that he had expected and nothing that he could identify.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yum,” he said and, with some concentration, eyes fixed on the luckless pieman, finished it all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it's quite possible no one else makes pies like you do, Mr Dibbler,” he said, licking his fingers in case he might want to shake hands with someone later on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You ate it all?” said Dibbler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was that wrong?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now relief rose off the man like smoke off a greenwood fire.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? No! That's fine! Jolly good! Want another one to help it down? Half-price?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no, one is more than enough,” said Vimes, backing away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You finished every bit?” said Dibbler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was right, wasn't it?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yeah. Sure. Obviously!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got to be going,” said Vimes, moving on down the lane. “I'll look forward to seeing you again when I've got less appetite.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He waited until he was well out of sight before taking a few random turns in the network of alleys. Then he stepped into the shadow of a deep doorway and felt in his mouth for the piece of pie that had seemed curiously unchewable even by pie standards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Usually, if you found something more than usually hard or crunchy in one of Dibbler's Famous Pork Pies, the trick was either to swallow it and hope for the best or spit it out with your eyes closed. But Vimes felt around between gum and cheek and fished out a folded piece of paper, stained with unknowable juices.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He unfolded it. In smudged pencil, but still decipherable, it read: <em class="calibre8">Morphic Street, 9 o'clock tonight. Password: swordfish</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swordfish? <em class="calibre8">Every</em> password was swordfish! Whenever anyone tried to think of a word that no one would ever guess, they <em class="calibre8">always</em> chose swordfish. It was just one of those strange quirks of the human mind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That explained the guilt, anyway. A plot. Another damn plot, in a city full of plots. Did he <em class="calibre8">need</em> to know about plots? Anyway, he knew about this one. Morphic Street. The famous Morphic Street Conspiracy. Ha.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pushed the greasy scrap into a pocket and then hesitated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone was being quiet. Overlaid on the distant street noises was a sort of hollow in the sounds, filled by careful breathing. And the hairs on the back of his neck were standing up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Quietly, he pulled the blackjack out of his rear pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now, what were the options? He was a copper, and someone was creeping up on him. If they weren't a copper, then they were in the wrong (because he was a copper). If <em class="calibre8">they</em> were a copper, too, then they were one of Swing's crew and therefore in the wrong (because he was a better copper than them, and so were things floating in gutters) and therefore delivering a swift bucketful of darkness had no obvious downside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the other hand, thieves, assassins and Swing's men, by all accounts, did a lot of creeping up on people and were probably pretty good at it, whereas the person tracking him was keeping their back so close to the wall he could hear the scraping. That meant they were probably just a member of the public with something on their mind and he was not inclined to add several ounces of lead shot simply for that reason (because he'd like to believe he wasn't that sort of copper).</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He settled for stepping out into the alley and saying “Yeah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A boy stared up at him. It had to be a boy. Nature would not have been so cruel as to do that to a girl. No single feature in itself was more than passably ugly, but the combination was greater than the sum of the parts. There was also the smell. It wasn't bad, as such. It just wasn't entirely human. There was something feral about it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…” said its pinched-up face. “Look, tell you what, mister, you tell me where you're going and I'll stop following you, have we got a deal? Cost you no more'n a penny and that's a special price. Some people pay me a lot more'n that to stop following 'em.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes continued to stare. The creature was wearing an oversize evening dress jacket, shiny with grease and greenish with age, and a top hat that must once have been trodden on by a horse. But the bits that were visible between the two were regrettably familiar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no…” he moaned. “No, no, no…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You all right, mister?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no, no…oh, ye gods, it had to happen, didn't it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want I should go'n' fetch Mossy, mister?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pointed an accusing finger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're Nobby Nobbs, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The urchin backed away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could be. So what? Is that a crime?” He turned to run but Vimes's hand fell heavily on his shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some people might say so. You're Nobby Nobbs, son of Maisie Nobbs and Sconner Nobbs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prob'ly, prob'ly! But I ain't done nothin', mister!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes bent down to look into eyes that peered out at the world through a mask of grime.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How about whizzing wipers, snitching tinklers, pulling wobblers, flogging tumblers and running rumbles?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby's brow creased in genuine puzzlement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's pulling wobblers mean?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave him a similar look. Street parly had changed a lot in thirty years.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's stealing trifles…small items. Isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nah, nah, mister. That's ‘tottering nevils’,” said Nobby, relaxing. “But you ain't doin' badly, for someone who's new. What's ‘oil of angels’?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Memory flicked a card.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bribe,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And a dimber?” said Nobby, grinning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Easy. Could be a head beggar, could be just a handsome man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done. Bet you don't know how to fleague a jade, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again, from a dusty recess, a memory unrolled. This one stuck in your mind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dear me, do you know that? What a shame in one so young,” said Vimes. “That's when you want to sell a broken-down horse and have to make it a bit frisky in front of the punters, and so you take some fresh raw hot ginger, lift up its tail, and push the ginger—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cor,” said Nobby, suddenly impressed. “Everyone says you're a real quick learner, and that's true enough. You could've been born here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why're you following me, Nobby Nobbs?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The urchin held out a grubby hand. Some street language <em class="calibre8">never</em> changes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled out sixpence. It shone in Nobby's palm like a diamond in a chimney-sweep's ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of 'em's a lady,” he said, and grinned. The hand stayed out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was a bloody sixpence I just gave you, kid,” Vimes growled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but I got to think of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes grabbed the lapels of Nobby's greasy coat and lifted him up, and was mildly shocked to realize that there was practically no weight there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Street urchin, he thought. Urchin sounds about right—spiky, slimy and smelling slightly of rotting seaweed. But there's hundreds of them round here, clawing a living off the very margins, and as I recall Nobby was one of the sharpest. And as trustworthy as a chocolate hammer. But that's okay. There's ways to deal with that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How much,” he said, “for you to work for <em class="calibre8">me</em>, all the time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I got customers to think of—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but I'm the one holding you up in one hand, right?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With his oversized boots dangling a foot above the ground, Nobby considered his position.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All the time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…for something like that I've got to be looking at a lordship every day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A dollar? Guess again!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…half a dollar?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a chance. A dollar a <em class="calibre8">week</em>, and I won't make your life the utter misery which, Nobby, I assure you I can do in so many little ways.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Still dangling, Nobby tried to work all this out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So…I'll be kind of like a copper, right?” he said, grinning artfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Kind of.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Number One Suspect says it's a good life being a copper, 'cos you can pinch stuff without getting nicked.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's got that right,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An' he says if anyone gives you lip, you can bop 'em one and chuck them in the Tanty,” Nobby went on. “I'd like to be a copper one day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who's Number One Suspect?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what our mam calls Sconner, our dad. Er…payment up front, yeah?” Nobby added, hopefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Right. No, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Correct. But I'll tell you what…” He lowered Nobby to the ground. Light as a feather, he thought. “You come with me, kid.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36384629" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork was full of men living in lodgings. Anyone with a spare room rented it out. And, in addition to the darning and stitching that was turning Miss Battye into one of the highest earning seamstresses in the city, they needed something else that women were best able to supply. They needed feeding.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were plenty of hot-chair eating places like the one Vimes headed for now. It sold plain food for plain men. There wasn't a menu. You ate what was put in front of you, you ate it quick, and you were glad to get it. If you didn't like it, there were plenty who did. The dishes had names like Slumgullet, Boiled Eels, Lob Scouse, Wet Nellies, Slumpie and Treacle Billy—good, solid stuff that stuck to the ribs and made it hard to get up out of the seat. They generally had a lot of turnip in, even if they weren't supposed to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes elbowed his way to the counter, dragging Nobby behind him. A chalked sign said “All You Can Eat In Ten Minutes For 10p”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beneath it, a large woman was standing bare-armed by a cauldron in which uncertain things bubbled in grey scum. She gave him an appraising look and then glanced at his sleeve.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What can I do for you, sergeant?” she said. “What happened to Sergeant Knock?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Comes in here a lot, does he?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dinner and supper.” Her look said it all: second helpings, too, and never pays.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes held up Nobby. “See this?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it a monkey?” said the woman.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Har har, very funny,” moaned Nobby, as Vimes lowered him again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's going to come in here for one square meal every day,” said Vimes. “All he can eat for ten pence.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes? And who's paying, may I ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me.” Vimes plonked a half-dollar on the table. “That's five days in advance. What's the special today? Slumgullet? It'll put hairs on his chest, when he gets a chest. Give him a big bowl. You might make a loss on this deal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shoved Nobby on to a bench, placed the greasy bowl in front of him, and sat down opposite.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You said a lady,” he said. “Don't mess me about, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have I got to share this, sarge?” said Nobby, picking up a wooden spoon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's all yours. Make sure you eat up every bit. There may be a test later,” said Vimes. “A woman, you said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady Meserole, sarge,” said Nobby indistinctly, through a mouthful of mixed vegetables and grease. “Posh lady. Everyone calls her Madam. Come from Genua a few months ago.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When did she ask you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This morning, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? She just stopped you in the street?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…I've got a kind of gen'ral contract with her, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glared. It was better than speaking. Nobby wriggled uneasily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fact is, sarge, she…er, caught me snickering her nolly last month. Hell's bells, sarge, she's got a punch on her like a mule! When I come round, we got to talking, and she said a keen young lad like me could be useful as, like, an ear on the street.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes continued to glare, but he was impressed. Young Nobby had been a gifted pickpocket. Anyone who caught him in the act was quick indeed. He turned up the ferocity of the glare.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, sarge, she said she'd turn me over to the Day Watch if I didn't,” Nobby confessed, “and you go straight to the Tanty if a nob lays a complaint against you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That's bloody true, thought Vimes. Private law again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want to go to the Tanty, sarge. Sconner's in there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he used to break your arms, Vimes remembered. “So why's a fine lady interested in me, Nobby?” he said aloud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Didn't ask. I told 'er about you an' the hurry-up wagon and the Unmentionables and everything. She said you sounded fascinatin'. An' Rosie Palm's paying me a measly penny a day to keep an eye on you, too. Oh, an' Corporal Snubbs at Cable Street, he's payin' me one half-penny to watch you, but what is a half-penny these days, say I, so I don't watch you much on his account. Oh, and Lance-Corporal Coates, I'm getting a penny from him, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno. He asked me this morning, too. A penny job.” Nobby belched hugely. “Better out than in, eh? Who d'you want me to watch for you, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me,” said Vimes. “If you can fit me into your busy schedule.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">You</em> want me to follow you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, just tell me what people are saying about me. Keep an eye on who else is following me. Watch my back, sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Just one more thing, Nobby…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?” said Nobby, still spooning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Give me back my notebook, my handkerchief and the four pennies you whizzed from my pockets, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby opened his mouth to protest, dribbling slumgullet, but closed it when he saw the glint in Vimes's eye. Silently, he produced the items from various horrible pockets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done,” said Vimes, getting up. “I'm sure I don't have to tell you what'll happen to you if you try the old dippitydoodah on me again, do I, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge,” said Nobby, looking down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Want another bowl? Have fun. I've got to go to work.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can rely on me, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oddly enough, thought Vimes as he walked back to the Watch House, I probably can. Nobby would nick anything and dodge anything but he wasn't <em class="calibre8">bad</em>. You could trust him with your life, although you'd be daft to trust him with a dollar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He purchased a packet of Pantweed's Slim Panatellas from another street trader. Carrying them around in their cardboard packet didn't feel right at all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a buzz in the main office as he strolled in. Watchmen were standing around in little groups. Sergeant Knock spotted Vimes and trotted over.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bit of a do, sir. Had a break-in last night,” he reported, with just a hint of smirk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes. “What did they steal?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did I say they stole anything, sir?” said the sergeant innocently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, no, you didn't,” said Vimes. “That was me jumping to what we call a <em class="calibre8">conclusion</em>. Did they steal anything, then, or did they break in to deliver a box of chocolates and a small complimentary basket of fruit?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They stole the captain's silver inkstand,” said Knock, impervious to sarcasm. “And it was an inside job, if you want my opinion. The door upstairs was forced but the main doors weren't. Must've been a copper what done it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was amazed at the forensic expertise shown here. “My word, a copper <em class="calibre8">stealing</em>?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, a terrible thing,” said Knock earnestly. “Especially since you showed us the way yesterday, about being honest and everything.” He glanced past Vimes, and shouted. “Attention! Officer present!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden was coming down the stairs. The room fell silent, except for his hesitant steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No luck, sergeant?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not so far, sir,” said Knock. “I was just telling Sergeant Keel here what a terrible thing has happened.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was engraved, you know,” said Tilden mournfully. “Everyone in the regiment chipped in what they could afford. This really is very…upsetting.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A man'd have to be a right bastard to steal something like that, eh, sergeant?” said Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Absolutely,” said Vimes. “I see you're pretty well organized on this one, sergeant. Have you looked everywhere?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everywhere except the lockers,” said Knock. “That's not something we'd do lightly, rummaging through a man's locker. But we're all here now, and Captain Tilden's here to see fair play, so although it's very distasteful I'll ask you, captain, for permission to rummage.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, if you must,” said Tilden. “I don't like the idea. It is really quite dishonourable, you know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I think, sir, to show that we're doing this fairly,” said Knock, “us sergeants ought to be searched first. That way no one can say we don't take it seriously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come now, sergeant,” said Tilden, with a little smile, “I hardly think <em class="calibre8">you</em> are suspected.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir, fair's fair,” said Knock. “We'll set a good example, eh, Sergeant Keel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shrugged. Knock grinned at him, pulled out a bundle of keys and beckoned to Lance-Corporal Coates.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do the honours, Ned,” he said, beaming. “Me first, o'course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door was unlocked. The contents of Knock's locker were the usual unsavoury mess of lockers everywhere, but there was certainly no silver inkstand. If there were, it would have turned black after a single day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done. Now Sergeant Keel's, please, Ned.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock's friendly beam fixed on Vimes as the policeman fumbled with the lock. Vimes stared back, face blank as a slate, as the door creaked open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear, what have we here?” said Knock, without even bothering to look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a sack, sarge,” said Coates. “Something heavy in it, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear me,” said Knock, still staring at Vimes. “Open it up, lad. Gently. We don't want anything to get damaged, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a rustle of hessian, and then:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…it's half a brick,” Ned reported.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A half brick, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm saving up for a house,” said Vimes. There were one or two sniggers from the assembled men, but some of the faster thinkers were suddenly looking worried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They know, thought Vimes. Well, lads, welcome to Vimes's Roulette. You spun the wheel and now you've got to guess where the ball is going to go…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em>?” said Knock, turning to the open locker.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's just a sack, sarge,” said Ned. “And half a brick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there a loose panel or something?” said Knock desperately.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, in a sack, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that seems to be <em class="calibre8">our</em> lockers,” said Vimes, rubbing his hands together. “Who's next, Sergeant Knock?” Round and round the little ball goes, and where it stops, nobody knows…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Y'know, person'ly, I think the captain's right, I don't think any of the men would—” Knock began, and faltered. Vimes's stare could have hammered rivets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe, sergeant, that since we have begun this, it should be concluded,” said Tilden. “That is only fair.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a couple of steps towards Coates and held out his hand. “Keys,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Coates glared at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The keys, lance-corporal,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He snatched them from Coates's hand, and turned to the line of lockers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” he said. “Let's start with the well-known arch-criminal, Lance-Constable Vimes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Door after door was opened. The lockers, while possibly of interest to anyone studying the smells of unwashed clothing and the things that could grow on neglected socks, failed to produce a single silver inkstand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It did turn up <em class="calibre8">The Amorous Adventurs of Molly Clapper</em> in Corporal Colon's locker, however. Vimes stared at the crude and grubby engravings like a long-lost friend. He <em class="calibre8">remembered</em> that book; it had gone around the Watch House for years, and as a young man he had learned a lot from some of the illustrations, although a good deal of what he'd learned had turned out to be wrong.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, Captain Tilden's view was blocked and Vimes shoved the greasy book back on the shelf and said to the red-eared Colon: “Studying theory, eh, Fred? Good man. Practice makes perfect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he turned, at last, to Coates's locker. The man was watching him like a hawk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The scratched door creaked open. Every neck craned to see. There was a stack of old notebooks, some civilian clothing and a small sack of what, when it was tipped out on to the floor, turned out to be laundry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Surprised?” said the lance-corporal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Not half as much as you, Vimes thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He winked at Coates, and turned away. “Can I have a word with you in your office, captain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant, I suppose so,” said Tilden, looking around. “Oh, dear…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave the man some time to climb the stairs, then followed him into his office and tactfully closed the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, sergeant?” said Tilden, collapsing into his chair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you looked <em class="calibre8">everywhere</em>, sir?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, sir, perhaps you put it in a desk drawer? Or the safe, perhaps?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly not! I sometimes put it in the safe at weekends, but I'm…sure I didn't do that last night.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes noted the subtle uncertainty. He was doing a bad thing, he knew. Tilden was nearly seventy. At a time like that, a man learned to treat his memory as only a rough guide to events.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I find, sir, that when a busy man has a lot on his plate he can do things that subsequently slip his mind,” he said. I know I do, he added to himself. I could put my house keys down in a bare room and not find them thirty seconds later.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've all been under a lot of pressure lately,” he added, knowing that Tilden frequently fell asleep during the afternoon until Snouty coughed very loudly outside the door before taking him his cocoa.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that's true,” said Tilden, turning desperate eyes to him. “All this curfew business. Very…unsettling. Forget my own head if it wasn't nailed on, what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and looked at the green safe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only had it a couple of months,” he muttered. “I <em class="calibre8">suppose</em> I…look the other way, will you, sergeant? May as well sort this out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes obligingly turned his back. There was some clicking, and a creak, and then an intake of breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden got to his feet, holding the silver inkstand. “I believe I've made a fool of myself, sergeant,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No, I've made a fool of you, thought Vimes, fervently wishing he hadn't. I'd intended to drop it into Coates's locker, but I couldn't…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…not after what I found in there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell you what, sir,” he volunteered, “we could say it was a kind of test.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't tell lies as a rule, Keel!” said the captain, but added, “I appreciate the suggestion, nevertheless. Anyway, I <em class="calibre8">know</em> I'm not as young as I was. Perhaps it's time to retire,” he sighed. “I have to say I've been considering it for some time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, don't talk like that, sir,” said Vimes, far more jovially than he felt. “I can't see you retiring.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I suppose I should see things through,” Tilden mumbled, walking back to his desk. “Do you know, sergeant, that some of the men think you are a spy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who for?” said Vimes, reflecting that Snouty delivered more than cocoa.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Winder, I assume,” said Tilden.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, we all work for him, sir. But I don't report to anyone but you, if that's any help.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden looked up at him and shook his head sadly. “Spy or not, Keel, I don't mind telling you that some of the orders we've been getting lately have…not been thought out properly, in my opinion, what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He gave Vimes a glare as if defying him to produce the red-hot thumbscrews there and then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes could see how much the admission that abduction and torture and conspiracy to criminalize honest citizens might not be acceptable government policy was costing the old man. Tilden hadn't been brought up to think like that. He'd ridden off under the flag of Ankh-Morpork to fight the Cheese-Eaters of Quirm or Johnny Klatchian or whatever enemies had been selected by those higher up the chain of command with never a second thought about the Tightness of the cause, because that sort of thinking could slow a soldier down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tilden had grown up knowing that the people at the top were right. That was <em class="calibre8">why</em> they were at the top. He didn't have the mental vocabulary to think like a traitor, because only traitors thought like that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Haven't been here long enough to comment, sir,” said Vimes. “Don't know how you do things here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not like we used to,” mumbled Tilden.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just as you say, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Snouty says you know your way around remarkably well, sergeant. For someone new to the city.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That was a sentence with a hook on the end, but Tilden was an inexperienced angler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One nick is pretty much like any other, sir,” said Vimes. “And, of course, I've visited the city before.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. Of course,” said Tilden hurriedly. “Well…thank you, sergeant. If you could, er, explain things to the men? I'd be grateful—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shut the door carefully behind him and went down the steps two at a time. The squad below had barely moved. He clapped his hands like a schoolteacher.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“C'mon, c'mon, you've got patrols to go to! Get moving! <em class="calibre8">Not you, Sergeant Knock—a word in the yard, please!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't bother to wait to see if the man would follow him. He went out into the late afternoon sunshine, leaned against the wall, and waited.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ten years ago, he'd have—correction, ten years ago, if he was sober, he'd have taught Knock a few lessons about who's boss with several well-aimed punches. And that was certainly the custom <em class="calibre8">these</em> days. Scraps between watchmen hadn't been uncommon when Vimes was a constable. But that wouldn't do for Sergeant Keel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock stepped out, inflated with mad, terrified bravado.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When Vimes raised his hand, the man actually flinched.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cigar?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't drink,” said Vimes. “But you can't beat a good cigar.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I…er…don't smoke,” mumbled Knock. “Look, about that inkstand—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D'you know, he'd gone and put it in that safe of his?” said Vimes, smiling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He had?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then forgotten about it,” said Vimes. “Happens to us all, Winsborough. A man's mind starts to wander, he's never quite certain of what he's done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes maintained the friendly grin. It was as good as raining blows. Besides, he'd given Knock his correct name. The man never used it in public, for fear of the panic it might cause.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just thought I'd put your mind at rest about it,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Winsborough Knock shifted uneasily from one foot to the other. He wasn't certain whether he'd got away with something, or had just ended up getting deeper into something else.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me more about Lance-Corporal Coates,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock's face was, for a moment, an agony of calculation. And then he adopted his usual policy: when you think there's wolves on your trail, throw someone off the sleigh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ned, sir?” he said. “Hard worker, of course, does his job—but a bit tricky, between you and me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How? And you don't have to call me ‘sir’, Winsborough. Not out here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He reckons Jack's as good as his master, if you know what I mean. Reckons he's as good as anyone. Bit of a troublemaker in that respect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Barrack-room lawyer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That sort of thing, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rebel sympathies?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knock turned his eyes up innocently. “Could be, sir. Wouldn't like to see the lad in trouble, o'course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You think I'm a spy for the Unmentionables, thought Vimes. And you're throwing Coates to me. The other day you were pushing him for promotion. You little worm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Worth keeping an eye on, then?” he said aloud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Interesting,” said Vimes, always a worrying word to the uncertain. It certainly worried Knock, and Vimes thought: my gods, perhaps Vetinari feels like this <em class="calibre8">all the time…</em></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of us, er, go round to the Broken Drum after the shift's over,” said Knock. “It's open round the clock. I don't know if you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't drink,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Yes. You said,” said Knock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now I'd better pick up young Sam and get out on patrol,” said Vimes. “Nice to have this little talk with you, Winsborough.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He strode past, taking care not to look back. Sam was still waiting in the main office, but was sucked into his wake as he swept past.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36385413" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I say, who's the skirt up there with old Folly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The prefects looked up. On the raised platform at the end of the noisy hall Doctor Follett, Master of Assassins and ex officio headmaster of the Guild School, was in animated conversation with, indeed, a lady. The vivid purple of her dress made a splash of colour in the vast room, where black predominated, and the elegant whiteness of his hair shone like a beacon in the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a Guild of Assassins, after all. Black was what you wore. The night was black and so were you. And black had such style, and an Assassin without style, everyone agreed, was just a highly paid arrogant thug.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The prefects were all over eighteen and, therefore, allowed to visit parts of the city that the younger boys weren't even supposed to know about. Their pimples no longer erupted at the sight of a woman. Now, their eyes narrowed. Most of them had already learned that the world was an oyster that could be opened with gold if a blade did not suffice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably a parent,” said one of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder who's the lucky boy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know who she is,” said “Ludo” Ludorum, head of Viper House. “I heard some of the masters talking earlier. She's Madam Roberta Meserole. Bought the old house in Easy Street. They say she made a pile of money in Genua and wants to settle down here. Looking for investment opportunities, apparently.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Madam?</em>” said Downey. “An honorific or a job description?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In Genua? Could be both,” said someone, to general laughter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Folly's certainly plying her with champagne,” said Downey. “They're on their third bottle. What <em class="calibre8">have</em> they got to talk about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Politics,” said Ludo. “Everyone knows Winder isn't going to do the decent thing, so it'll be down to us. And Folly's annoyed because we've lost three chaps up there already. Winder's pretty cunning. There's guards and soldiers everywhere you look.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Winder's a scag,” said Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Downey. You call everyone a scag,” said Ludo calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, everyone is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Downey turned back to the table and a movement—or, rather, a lack of movement—caught his eye. Towards the far end one young Assassin was sitting reading, with a book stand positioned in front of his plate. He was intent on it, an empty fork halfway to his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a wink at the others, Downey selected an apple from the bowl in front of him, stealthily drew his arm back, and let fly with malicious accuracy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The fork moved like a snake's tongue, and skewered the apple out of the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The reader turned a page. Then, eyes never leaving the print, he delicately brought the fork up to his mouth and took a bite out of the apple.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rest of the table looked back at Downey, and there were one or two chuckles. The young man's brow furrowed. Assault having failed, he was forced to try scathing wit, which he did not have.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You really are a scag, Dog-botherer,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Downey,” said the reader levelly, his eyes still intent on the page.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When are you going to pass some decent exams, Dog-botherer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I really couldn't say, Downey.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never killed anyone, right, Dog-botherer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably not, Downey.” The reader turned another page. That little sound infuriated Downey even more.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's that you're reading?” he snapped. “Robertson, show me what the Dog-botherer is reading, will you? Come on, pass it up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The boy next to the one currently known as Dog-botherer snatched the book off the stand and threw it along the length of the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The reader sighed and sat back as Downey gave the pages a cursory flick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, look here, you fellows,” he said. “Dog-botherer is reading a <em class="calibre8">picture book</em>.” He held it open. “Colour it in yourself with your paints or crayons, did you, Dog-botherer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The former reader stared up at the ceiling. “No, Downey. It was hand-coloured to his instructions by Miss Emelia Jane, the sister of Lord Winstanleigh Greville-Pipe, the author. It says so on the frontispiece, you will note.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And here's a lovely picture of a <em class="calibre8">tiger</em>,” Downey ploughed on. “Why're you looking at pictures, Dog-botherer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because Lord Winstanleigh has some interesting theories on the art of concealment, Downey,” said the reader.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh? Black and orange tiger in green trees?” said Downey, turning the pages roughly. “Big red ape in green forest? Black and white zebra in yellow grass? What's this, a manual on how not to do it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Again there was a round of chuckles, but they were forced. Downey had friends because he was big and rich, but sometimes he was embarrassing to have around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As a matter of fact Lord Winstanleigh also has an interesting point to make on the dangers of intuitive—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This a Guild book, Dog-botherer?” Downey demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, Downey. It was privately engraved some years ago and I succeeded in tracing a copy in—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Downey's hand shot out. The book whirled away, causing a table full of younger boys to scatter, and landed at the back of the fireplace. The diners on the top tables looked round, and then turned back in disinterest. Flames licked up. For a moment, the tiger burned brightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rare book, was it?” said Downey, grinning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it may now be said to be non-existent,” said the one known as Dog-botherer. “That was the only extant copy. Even the engraved plates have been melted down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't you ever get upset, Dog-botherer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh yes, Downey,” said the reader. He pushed his chair back and stood up. “And now, I believe, I will have an early night.” He nodded at the table. “Good evening, Downey, gentlemen…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a scag, Vetinari.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just as you say, Downey.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36385764" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thought better when his feet were moving. The mere activity calmed him down and shook his thoughts into order.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Apart from the curfew and manning the gates, the Night Watch didn't do a lot. This was partly because they were incompetent, and partly because no one expected them to be anything else. They walked the streets, slowly, giving anyone dangerous enough time to saunter away or melt into the shadows, and then rang the bell to announce to a sleeping world, or at any rate a world that had been asleep, the fact that all was, despite appearances, well. They also rounded up the quieter sort of drunk and the more docile kinds of stray cattle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They think I'm a spy for Winder? thought Vimes. Spying on the Treacle Mine Road Watch? It's like spying on dough.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had flatly refused to carry a bell. Young Sam had acquired a lighter one, but out of deference to Vimes's crisply expressed wishes, kept the clapper muffled with a duster.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is the wagon going out tonight, sarge?” said young Sam, as the twilight faded towards night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Colon and Waddy are on it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Taking people to Cable Street?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Vimes. “I told them to take everyone to the Watch House and Snouty'll fine 'em half a dollar and take their name and address. Perhaps we'll have a raffle.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get into trouble, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The curfew's just to frighten people. It doesn't mean much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our mum says there's going to be trouble soon,” said Sam. “She heard it in the fish shop. Everyone says it's going to be Snapcase at the palace. He listens to the people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right,” said Vimes. And I listen to the thunder. But I don't do anything about it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our mum says everyone'll have a voice in the city when Snapcase is the Patrician,” Sam went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keep the voice down, kid.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The day'll come when the angry masses will rise up and throw off their shekels, the fishmonger says,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If I <em class="calibre8">was</em> a spy for Swing, that fishmonger would be gutted, Vimes thought. Quite the revolutionary, our mum.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wondered if it was at all possible to give this idiot some lessons in basic politics. That was always the dream, wasn't it? “I wish I'd known then what I know now”? But when you got older you found out that you <em class="calibre8">now</em> wasn't <em class="calibre8">you</em> then. You then was a twerp. You then was what you had to be to start out on the rocky road of becoming you now, and one of the rocky patches on that road was being a twerp.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A much better dream, one that'd ensure sounder sleep, was not to know now what you didn't know then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's your dad do?” he said, as if he didn't know.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He passed away a long time ago, sarge,” said Sam. “When I was little. Run down by a cart when he was crossing the street, our mum said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What a champion liar she was, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry to hear that,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, our mum says you'd be welcome round to tea one night, what with you being all by yourself in a strange city, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you like me to give you another tip, lad?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge, I'm learning a lot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lance-constables do not invite their sergeants round to tea. Don't ask me why. It's one of those things that does not happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't know our mum, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes coughed. “Mums are mums, lance-constable. They don't like to see men managing by themselves, in case that sort of thing catches on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Besides, I know she's been up in Small Gods these past ten years. I'd rather put one hand flat on the table and give Swing the hammer than walk down Cockbill Street today.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well,” said Sam, “she says she's going to make you some Distressed Pudding, sarge. She makes great Distressed Pudding, our mum.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The best, thought Vimes, staring into the middle distance. Oh, gods. The very best. No one has ever done it better.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd be…very kind of her,” he managed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge,” said Sam after a while, “why are we patrolling Morphic Street? It's not our beat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I switched beats. I ought to see as much of the city as possible,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a lot to see in Morphic Street, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I don't know,” he said. “It's amazing what you see if you concentrate.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pulled Sam into a doorway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just whisper, lad,” he said. “Now, look down there at the house opposite. See that doorway with the deeper shadow?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge,” whispered Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why's it such a deep shadow, d'you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'cos someone in black is standing in it, that's why. So we're going to walk a little further and then we'll just turn around and go back round the corner. We're heading back to the station like good boys because our cocoa's getting cold, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They ambled back around the corner, and Vimes let them walk sufficiently far up the street that the footsteps died away naturally.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, this is far enough,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Give Sam his due, Vimes thought, he knew how to stand still. He'd have to teach him how to unfocus himself, too, so that you could very nearly fade out of sight on a cloudy day. Had Keel taught him that? After a certain age, memory was indeed an untrustworthy thing…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The city's clocks chimed the three-quarter-hour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What time's curfew?” Vimes whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nine o'clock, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Must be nearly that now,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, it's only just gone a quarter to nine, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's going to take me a few minutes to get back. I want you to sneak back after me and wait at the corner. When it starts, you come running and banging that bell of yours.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When what starts, sarge? Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Vimes was walking noiselessly down the road. He made a note to tip Snouty a dollar. These boots were like foot gloves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Torches spluttered on the junction, destroying the night vision of anyone who looked in that direction. Vimes padded around its dark penumbra and sidled along the buildings on the far wall until he was level with the door. Then he swung around the frame and shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're <em class="calibre8">nicked</em>, chum!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“–!” said the shadow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that's offensive language, sir, such as I would not wish my young lance-constable to hear!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind him he heard Lance-Constable Vimes advancing at a run, ringing his bell madly and shouting, “Nine o'clock and all's not well at all!” And there were other sounds, too, the ones Vimes had been half-listening for, of doors slamming and distant footsteps hurrying away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You bloody fool!” said the struggling figure in black. “What the hell are you playing at!” He pushed at Vimes, who nevertheless tightened his grip.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That, sir, is assault upon a Watch officer,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">I'm</em> a Watch officer too, you damn flatfoot! From Cable Street!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's your uniform?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't wear uniforms!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's your badge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we don't carry badges!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hard to see why I shouldn't think you is a common thief then, sir. You was casing that house over there,” said Vimes, happy in the role of big, thick, but horribly unshakeable copper. “We <em class="calibre8">seen</em> you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was going to be a meeting of dangerous anarchists!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind of a religion is that, sir?” Vimes patted the man's belt. “Oh, dear, what have we here? A very nasty dagger. See this, Lance-Constable Vimes? A weapon, no doubt about it! That's against the law. Carried after dark, which is even more against the law! And it's a <em class="calibre8">concealed</em> weapon!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you mean, concealed?” screamed the twisting prisoner. “It was in a bloody sheath!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bloody, eh? Used it already, have you, sir?” said Vimes. He thrust a hand into a pocket of the man's black coat. “And…what's this? A little black velvet roll with, I do believe, a complete set of lock picks? That's Going Equipped for Burglary, that is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're not mine and you know it!” the man snarled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you sure, sir?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes! Because I keep <em class="calibre8">mine</em> in my inside pocket, you bastard.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Using Language liable to cause a Breach of the Peace,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh? You idiots have scared everyone away! Who's going to be offended?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> might be. I'm sure you don't want that, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're that stupid sergeant we've been told about, aren't you,” growled the man. “Too thick to see what's going on, right? Well, this is where you find out, mister…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He twisted out of Vimes's grip, and there were a couple of sliding, metallic noises in the gloom. Wrist knives, thought Vimes. Even Assassins think they're an idiot's weapon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took a couple of steps back as the man danced towards him, both knives waving.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't think of a dumb answer to this one, eh, brownjob?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To his horror Vimes saw, behind the man, the shape of Sam raising his bell very slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't hit him!” he shouted, and then lashed out with his boot as the man's head turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you're going to fight, fight,” he said, as the man toppled forward. “If you're going to talk, talk. Don't try to talk and fight. And right now, I caution you to do neither.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could have got him easily, sarge,” Sam complained, as Vimes fished out his handcuffs and knelt down. “I could have blown him out like a light.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Head injuries can be fatal, lance-constable. We serve the public trust.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you kicked him in the privates, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Because I don't want you to be a target, thought Vimes, as he tightened the cuffs. That means you don't belt one of them over the head. You stay as the dim sidekick, in the background. That way you survive, and <em class="calibre8">that</em> way, maybe I do too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't have to fight the way the other bloke wants you to fight,” he said, hefting the man on to his shoulders. “Give me a hand here…up we <em class="calibre8">go</em>. Okay, I've got him. You lead the way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Back to the Watch House?” said Sam. “You're <em class="calibre8">arresting an Unmentionable</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. I just hope we'll meet some of our lads on the way. Let this be a lesson, lad. There aren't any rules. Not when there's knives out. You take him down, quietly if possible, without hurting him much if possible, but you take him down. He comes at you with a knife, you bring your stick down on his arm. He comes at you with his hands, you use your knee or your boot or your helmet. Your job is to keep the peace. You make it peaceful as quickly as you can.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. But there's going to be trouble, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Straightforward arrest. Even coppers have to obey the law, what there is of it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge, but I mean there's going to be trouble right now, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd neared the end of the street, and there was a group of figures there. They looked like men with a purpose; there was something about the stance, the way they were standing in the road, and, of course, the occasional glint of light on a weapon also gave a hint. There was a snapping of little doors as dark lanterns were opened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course he wouldn't have been alone, Vimes scolded himself. His job was just to watch until they'd all gone in. And then he'd just shlep away to call in the heavy gang. There must be a dozen of 'em. We're going to get <em class="calibre8">cheesed</em>!”<a href="#_ftn7" title="7. Like creamed, but it goes on for a lot longer."><sup class="calibre11">7</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What'll we do, sarge?” whispered Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ring your bell.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they've spotted us!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ring the damn bell, will you? And keep walking! And don't stop ringing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Unmentionables spread out now, and as Vimes trudged towards them he saw several figures at each end of the line slip around behind him. That's how it'd go. They'd be like the muggers up in Scoone Avenue, talking nice and friendly while their eyes said, hey, you know our mates are right behind you and we know you know and it's fun watching you trying to pretend that this is just a civilized conversation when you know that any minute you're going to get it right in the kidneys. We feel your pain. And we like it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped walking. It was that or walk into someone. And all along the street doors and windows were opening as the clanging of the bell roused the neighbourhood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'evenin',” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'evenin', your grace,” said a voice out of history. “Nice to see an old friend, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes groaned. The worst that could happen had happened. “Carcer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre8">Sergeant</em> Carcer, thank you. Funny how things work out, eh? Turns out I'm prime copper material, haha. They gave me a new suit and a sword and twenty-five dollars a month, just like that. Lads, this is the man I told you about.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why d'you call him your grace, sarge?” said one of the shadowy men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer's eyes never left Vimes's face. “It's a joke. Where we come from, everyone used to call him Duke,” he said. Vimes saw him slip a hand into a pocket. It came out holding something that had a brassy glint. “It was a sort of nickname, eh…Duke? Stop the kid ringing the damn bell, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Knock it off, lance-constable,” Vimes muttered. The noise had worked, anyway. This little tableau had a silent audience now. Not that an audience would make any difference to Carcer. He'd cheerfully stab you to death in the centre of a crowded arena and then look around and say, “Who, me?” But the men behind him were edgy, like cockroaches wondering when the light was going to go on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't you worry, Duke,” Carcer said, sliding his fingers into the brass knuckles, “I've told the boys about you and me. How we, hah, go back a long way and all that, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah?” said Vimes. It wasn't prizewinning repartee, but Carcer obviously wanted to talk. “And how did you get made a sergeant, Carcer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard where they were looking for coppers with fresh ideas,” said Carcer. “And that nice Captain Swing hisself talked to me and said he was in no doubt I was an honest man who had been unlucky. Measured me up, he did, with his calipers and his rules and jommetry and he said it <em class="calibre8">proved</em> I was not a criminal type. It was all the fault of my environment, he said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, you mean all those dead bodies everywhere you went?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice one, Duke, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you <em class="calibre8">had</em> fresh ideas, did you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, he liked one of 'em,” said Carcer, narrowing his eyes. “Turned out he didn't know the ginger beer trick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The ginger beer trick. Well, that just about put the tin lid on it. Torturers down the ages hadn't found the ginger beer trick, and Carcer had handed it over to a patent maniac like Captain Swing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The ginger beer trick,” said Vimes. “Well done. Carcer. You're just what Swing's been looking for. The complete bastard.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer grinned as if he'd been awarded a small prize. “Yeah, I already told 'em how you got a down on me for stealing a loaf of bread.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, Carcer,” said Vimes. “That's not you. You never pinched a loaf of bread in your life. Murdering the baker and stealing the bakery, that'd be your style.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a card, eh?” said Carcer, winking at his men and nodding towards Vimes. Then, in one movement, he spun around and punched the man beside him in the stomach.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre8">don't</em> call me sarge,” he hissed. “It's sergeant, understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the floor, the man groaned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll take that as a yes, then, haha,” said Carcer, slipping the brass knuckles back into his pocket. “Now the thing is…Duke…what you have there is one of my men, so how about you hand him over and we'll say no more about it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happening, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice was coming from some way behind Vimes. He turned. It was Wiglet and Scutts. They looked like men who'd been running but were now trying to affect a nonchalant swagger. It was getting less nonchalant and considerably less swaggery as they eyed up the Unmentionables.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">The frantically ringing bell. That's what they'd always used. All the coppers who heard it would converge on it, because an Officer was in Trouble</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Of course, they wouldn't necessarily help him get out of trouble, not if the odds weren't right. This was the old Night Watch, after all. But at least they could fish him out of the river or cut him down and see he got a decent burial</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a rumble from further up the street and the rattling bulk of the hurry-up turned the corner, with Fred Colon at the reins and Constable Waddy hanging on behind. Vimes heard the shouts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's up, Bill?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Keel and Vimesy,” Wiglet called back. “Hurry up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried to avoid Carcer's eyes, tried to appear as if nothing had happened, tried to pretend that the world had not suddenly cracked open and let in the cold winds of infinity. But Carcer was smart.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He glanced at Vimes, looked at Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimesy?” he said. “Your name Sam Vimes, mister?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ain't saying <em class="calibre8">anything</em>,” said Lance-Constable Vimes stoutly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well well, well, well, well,” said Carcer happily. “Now <em class="calibre8">here's</em> a nice how-d'yer-do, eh? Something for a chap to think about, and <em class="calibre8">no</em> mistake, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a creak as the hurry-up wagon rolled to a stop. Carcer glanced up at the round, pale face of Corporal Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just go about your business, corporal,” said Carcer. “You just leave <em class="calibre8">now</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon swallowed. Vimes could see his Adam's apple bob as it tried to hide.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…we heard the ringing,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just a bit of high spirits,” said Carcer. “Nothing that need worry you. We're all coppers here, right? I wouldn't like there to be any trouble. There's just been a bit of a misunderstanding, that's all. Sergeant Keel here was just going to hand over my friend there, right, sergeant? No hard feelings, eh? You just happened to blunder into a little operation of ours. Best not to talk about it. Just you hand him over and we'll call it quits.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Every head turned to Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sensible thing would be to hand the man over. He knew it. And then—probably—Carcer would go away, and he didn't want that man any closer to young Sam than he could help.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Carcer would come back. Oh, yes. Things like Carcer always came back, especially when they thought they'd found a weakness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That wasn't the worst part. The worst part was that Vimes had changed things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There had been the Morphic Street Conspiracy. The Unmentionables <em class="calibre8">had</em> raided it. Several people had died but some had got away, and then there had been a few days of horrible confusion and then it ended when—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But young Sam Vimes hadn't been anywhere near Morphic Street that night. Keel had been teaching him to shake hands with doorknobs over on the other side of the Shades.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But you wanted to be <em class="calibre8">clever</em>, Duke. You wanted to put a spoke in the wheel and smack a few heads, didn't you?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now Carcer's in it as well and you're out of the history books and travelling without a map…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer was still grinning his cheerful grin. Here and now, more than anything else, Vimes wanted to see the end of that grin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I'd like to oblige, <em class="calibre8">sarge</em>,” he said. “I really would. But I've pinched him now, so I've got to take him back to my nick and do the paperwork. He might well be able to help us with our inquiries into a number of unsolved crimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Such as?” said Carcer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno,” said Vimes. “Depends on what we've got. We'll take him down the cells, give him a cup of tea, chat to him about this and that…<em class="calibre8">you</em> know how it is. A man can get quite chatty after a cup of tea. Or carbonated beverage of his choice, of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a snigger from among the members of the Night Watch, although Vimes hoped none of them knew what the last sentence meant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer's smile dissolved. “I <em class="calibre8">said</em> he's one of my men, on official business, and I am a sergeant,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I am Sergeant-at-Arms and <em class="calibre8">I</em> said we'll hand him over to you at the nick, Sergeant Carcer. Officially.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer nodded towards the lance-constable, so imperceptibly that only Vimes saw it. And he lowered his voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But suddenly <em class="calibre8">I've</em> got all the aces, Duke,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But suddenly <em class="calibre8">I'm</em> not playing cards, Carcer. Now, we could have a barney right here and now and, y'know, I'm not sure which way it'd go. But I'm sure as hell that you wouldn't be a sergeant tomorrow. And if you think you've got all the aces, you can afford to raise the stakes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer stared at him for a moment. Then he winked, and half turned away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I told you he's a caution, eh?” he said to the multitude. He gave Vimes a conspiratorial dig in the ribs. “Always trying it on! Okay, sergeant…at-arms, we'll do it your way. Got to give you brownjobs something to do, haha, eh? I'll send a couple of the lads down for him in an hour or so.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That's right, give me time to sweat on whether I'll pop into non-existence if you cut the lad's throat, Vimes thought. Trouble is, I <em class="calibre8">am</em> sweating.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He straightened up, and beckoned to the hurry-up wagon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me and my lads will <em class="calibre8">all</em> take him back,” he said. “Time for our cocoa break, see? Give me a hand up with him, Waddy. Got any other passengers, Fred?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just a drunk, sarge. Been spewing everywhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay. We'll put the prisoner in the back and we'll all hang on to the outside.” Vimes nodded at Carcer. “I'm sure we'll meet again soon, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” said Carcer, and there was that impish grin again. “And you be sure to look after yourself, d'you hear?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes leapt on to the side of the wagon as it rattled past, and didn't even look back. That was one thing about Carcer, at least—he wouldn't shoot you in the back if he thought there was a reasonable chance, pretty soon, of cutting your throat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while, Constable Wiglet, hanging on beside him as the wagon rocked, said: “What happened back there, sarge? You know that bloke?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. He's killed two coppers. One that tried to arrest him and one who was off duty and eating a pie. Killed other people, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But he's a copper!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Swing gave him a job, Wiglet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, the rattle of the wheels sounded much louder. All the other watchmen were listening very intently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You been in the Watch long, constable?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two years, sarge,” said Wiglet. “Used to be a fruit porter down the market but I got a bad back and a bad chest what with all the cold mornings.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never heard about coppers being killed,” said Lance-Constable Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It wasn't here, kid. It was a long way away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They were coppers I knew, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Again, the mood on the cart changed. There was no obvious sound from the watchmen but over the wagon hung the word: “Ah-<em class="calibre8">hah</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you came here to track him down…?” said Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something like that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">We</em> heard you came from Pseudopolis, sarge,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've come from a lot of places.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wow!” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He killed a copper who was eating a pie?” said Fred Colon, from the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What a bastard! What kind of pie was it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Witnesses didn't say,” Vimes lied. This was old Ankh-Morpork. The dwarfs here right now were a tiny minority who kept their heads down…well, further down than usual. There certainly were no all-night rat pie shops.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wiglet had something on his mind. “They're going to come for that bloke you picked up,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Want the rest of the night off, constable?” said Vimes. There was some nervous laughter from the rest of the crew. Poor devils, thought Vimes. You joined up '@cos the wages were good and there was no heavy lifting, and suddenly it's going to be <em class="calibre8">difficult</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're you going to charge our man with, sarge?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Attempted assault on a copper. You saw the knives.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You did kick him, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, I forgot. We'll do him for resisting arrest, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some more laughter. We who think we are about to die will laugh at anything.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">What a bunch. I know you well, gentlemen. You're in it for the quiet life and the pension, you don't hurry too much in case the danger is still around when you get there, and the most you ever expected to face was an obstreperous drunk or a particularly difficult cow. Most of you aren't even coppers, not in your head. In the sea of adventure, you're bottom-feeders</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">And now, it's war…and you're in the middle. Not on either side. You're the stupid little band of brownjobs. You're beneath contempt. But believe me, boys—you'll rise</em>.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36386787" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">For a minute or two after Morphic Street went quiet nothing moved and nothing happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then a coach came around the corner. It was a particularly fine one, drawn by two horses. Its lamps were torches, and as the coach bounced on the cobbles the zig-zagging flames seemed to trail for a moment in the air, and appeared to have a smoky quality.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In so far as they revealed anything, these suggested that the coach had been done up in purple livery. It also seemed to be rather heavy on its wheels.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It pulled to a halt at the next doorway down from the one where Vimes had performed his arrest. Vimes, who thought he knew a lot about being a shadow, would have been surprised to see two dark figures step out of the doorway's darkness into the light of the torch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The coach door swung open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Strange news, kind lady,” said one of the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very strange news, dearie,” said the other shadow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They climbed up into the coach, which sped off.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36386824" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was impressed at the way the men reacted back at the Watch House, despite the lack of any command from him. Wiglet and Scutts jumped down as soon as the wagon was in the yard and dragged the gates across.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Inside, Colon and Waddy pulled the shutters across the windows. Waddy went into the armoury and came out with an armful of crossbows. It was all done with speed and, for the men concerned, precision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nudged his younger self. “Make the cocoa, will you, kid?” he said. “I don't want to miss the show.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down at his desk and put his feet up as Colon locked the door and Waddy pulled the bar across.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This is happening, he thought, but it didn't happen before. Not exactly like this. This time, the Morphic Street mob did a runner. They weren't ambushed in their meeting. There wasn't a fight. The sight of all those coppers must've scared them rigid. They weren't much anyway, just sloganeers and skivers and me-too-ists, the people who crowd behind the poor slob who's the spokesman shouting “yeah, right” and leg it up an alley when the law gets rough. But some had died in the ambush, and some fought back, and one thing led, as always, to another. Except, this time, there was no ambush, because some thick sergeant made too much noise…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Two different presents. One past, one future…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">I don't know what's going to happen next</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">However, I've got a damn good idea</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, lads,” he said, standing up. “You finish trapping us inside and I'll go and tell the old man what's happening.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard the puzzled muttering behind him as he climbed the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Tilden was sitting at his desk, staring at the wall. Vimes coughed loudly, and saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Had a bit of—” he began, and Tilden turned his ashen face to him. He looked as though he had seen a ghost, and it had been in the mirror.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've heard the news too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The riot up at Dolly Sisters,” said Tilden. “It was only a couple of hours ago.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I'm too close, Vimes thought, as the words sank in. All those things were just names, it all seemed to happen at once. Dolly Sisters, yeah. They were a right mob of hotheads up there…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The lieutenant of the Day Watch called in one of the regiments,” said Tilden. “Which he was duly authorized to do. Of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which one?” said Vimes, for the look of the thing. The name was in the history books, after all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Venturi's Medium Dragoons, sergeant. My old regiment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That's right, thought Vimes. And cavalry are <em class="calibre8">highly trained</em> at civilian crowd control. Everyone knows that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And, er, there were some, er, accidental deaths…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt sorry for the man. In truth, it was never proved that anyone was given an order to ride people down, but did it matter? Horses pushing, and people unable to get away because of the press of people behind them…it was too easy for small children to lose grip of a hand…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But, in fairness, missiles were thrown at the officers and one soldier was badly injured,” said Tilden, as if reading the words off a card.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That's all right, then? Vimes thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind of missiles, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fruit, I gather. Although there may have been some stones as well.” Vimes realized that Tilden's hand was shaking. “The riot was over the price of bread, I understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No. The <em class="calibre8">protest</em> was over the price of bread, said Vimes's inner voice. The <em class="calibre8">riot</em> was what happens when you have panicking people trapped between idiots on horseback and other idiots shouting “yeah, right!” and trying to push forward, and the whole thing in the charge of a fool advised by a maniac with a steel rule.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The feeling of the palace,” said Tilden slowly, “is that revolutionary elements may attack the Watch Houses.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really, sir? Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the sort of thing they do,” said Tilden.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As a matter of fact, sir, the men are putting up shutters and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do whatever you feel necessary, sergeant,” said Tilden, waving a hand with a scrawled letter in it. “We are told we must be mindful of the curfew regulations. That has been underlined.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes paused before answering. He'd bitten back the first answer. He contented himself with “Very well, sir,” and left.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man wasn't a bad man, he knew; he must have been badly affected by the news to give such a stupid, dangerous order. “Do what you feel necessary.” Give an order like that to a man who's liable to panic when he sees a bunch of people waving their fists and you got the Dolly Sisters Massacre.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked back down the stairs. The squad were standing around looking nervous.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prisoner in the cells?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Colon nodded. “Yessir. Sarge, Snouty says that up at Dolly Sisters—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know. Now here's what I feel is necessary. Take the shutters down, unbar the door, leave it open and light all the lamps. Why isn't the blue lamp over the door lit?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno, sarge. But what if—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get it lit, corporal. And then you and Waddy go and stand guard outside, where you can be seen. You're friendly-looking local lads. Take your bells but, and I want to make this very clear, no swords, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No swords?” Colon burst out. “But what if a bloody great mob comes round the corner and I'm not armed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached him in two swift strides and stood nose to nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And if you have got a sword, what will you do, eh? Against a bloody great mob? What do you want 'em to see? Now what I want 'em to see is Fatty Colon, decent lad, not too bright, I knew 'is dad, an' there's ol' Waddy, he drinks in my pub. 'cos if they just see a couple of men in uniform with swords you'll be in trouble, and if you draw those swords you'll be in real trouble, and if by any chance, corporal, you draw swords tonight without my order and survive then you'll wish you hadn't done either because you'll have to face me, see? And then you'll know what trouble is, 'cos everything up until then will look like a bleedin' day at the soddin' seaside. Understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon goggled at him. There was no other word for it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't let my sugary sweet tones lead you to believe that I'm not damn well giving you orders,” said Vimes, turning away. “Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?” said young Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have we got a saw in this place?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty stepped forward. “I've got a toolbox, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nails, too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Rip the door off my locker and hammer a lot of nails right through it, will you? Then lay it down on the upstairs landing, points up. I'll take the saw, 'cos I'm going to the privy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After the silence that followed, Corporal Colon obviously felt he had to make a contribution. He cleared his throat and said, “If you've got a problem in that area, sarge, Mrs Colon's got a wonderful medicine she—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I won't be long,” said Vimes. In fact, he was four minutes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All done,” he said, returning to the sound of hammering from the locker room. “Come with me, lance-constable. Time for a lesson in interrogation. Oh…and bring the toolbox.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred and Waddy don't like being outside,” said Sam, as they went down the stone steps. “They say what if that bunch of Unmentionables turn up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They needn't worry. Our friends at Cable Street are not front-door kind of people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pushed open the door to the cells. The prisoner stood up and grabbed the bars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, they've come, now you let me out,” he said. “Come on, and I'll put in a good word for you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one's come for you, sir,” said Vimes. He locked the main door behind him, and then unlocked the cell.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's probably a busy time for them,” he added. “Been a bit of a riot over in Dolly Sisters. A few deaths. Might be a while before they get around to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man eyed the toolbox that the lance-constable was holding. It was only a flicker, but Vimes saw the moment of uncertainty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I get it,” said the prisoner. “Good Cop, Bad Cop, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you like,” said Vimes. “But we're a bit short staffed, so if I give you a cigarette would you mind kicking <em class="calibre8">yourself</em> in the teeth?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, this is a game, right?” said the prisoner. “You <em class="calibre8">know</em> I'm one of the Particulars. And you're new in town and want to impress us. Well, you have. Big laugh all round, haha. Anyway, I was only on stake-out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but that's not how it works, is it,” said Vimes. “Now we've got you, we can decide what you're guilty of. You know how it's done. Fancy a ginger beer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man's face froze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Y'know,” said Vimes, “it turns out that after the riot this evening we've been warned to expect revolutionary attacks on the Watch Houses. Now personally I wouldn't expect that. What I'd expect is a bunch of ordinary people turning up, you know, because they've heard what happened. But—and you can call me Mr Suspicious if you like—I've got a feeling that there <em class="calibre8">will</em> be something a bit worse. You see, apparently we've got to be mindful of the curfew regulations. What that means, I suppose, is that if we get people coming to complain about unarmed citizens being attacked by soldiers, which personally I would consider to be Assault With A Deadly Weapon, we've got to arrest them. I find that rather—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a commotion from above. Vimes nodded to young Sam, who disappeared up the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now that my impressionable assistant has gone,” said Vimes quietly, “I'll add if any of my men get hurt tonight then I'll see to it that for the rest of your life you scream at the sight of a bottle.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I haven't done anything to you! You don't even know me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Like I said, we're doing it your way,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam reappeared, in a hurry. “Someone's fallen in the privy!” he announced. “They were climbing on the roof and it had been sawn through and gave way!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It must be one of those revolutionary elements,” said Vimes, watching the prisoner's face. “We've been <em class="calibre8">warned</em> about them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says he's from Cable Street, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's just the kind of thing I'd say, if I was a revolutionary element,” said Vimes. “All right, let's take a look at him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Upstairs, the front door was still open. There were a few people outside, just visible in the lamplight. There was also Sergeant Knock inside, and he was not happy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who said we open up like this?” he was saying. “It looks nasty out on those streets! Very dangerous—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said we stay open,” said Vimes, coming up the stairs. “Is there a problem, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well…look, sarge, I heard on the way over, they're throwing stones at the Dimwell Street House,” said Knock, deflating. “There's people in the streets! Mobs! I hate to think what's happening downtown.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're coppers! We should be getting prepared!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? To bar the doors and listen to the stones rattle off the roof?” said Vimes. “Or maybe we should go out and arrest everyone? Any volunteers? No? I'll tell you what, sergeant, if you want to do some coppering you can go and arrest the man in the privy. Do him for Breaking and Entering—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a scream from upstairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I reckon if you go up on to the attic landing you'll find there's a man who dropped through the skylight right on to a doorful of nails that was accidentally left there,” he went on. He looked at Knock's puzzled face. “It's the Cable Street boys, sergeant,” he said. “They thought they could come across the roofs and scare the dumb brownjobs. Chuck 'em both in the cells.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're arresting <em class="calibre8">Unmentionables</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No uniform. No badge. Carrying weapons. Let's have a bit of law around here, shall we?” said Vimes. “Snouty, where's that cocoa?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get into trouble!” Knock shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes let Knock wait until he'd lit a cigar. “We're in trouble anyway, Winsborough,” he said, shaking out the match. “It's just a case of deciding what kind we want. Thanks, Snouty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took the mug of cocoa from the jailer and nodded at Sam. “Let's take a stroll outside,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware of the sudden silence in the room, except for the whimpering coming from upstairs and the distant yelling from the privy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're you all standing around for, gentlemen?” he said. “Want to ring your bells? Anyone fancy shouting out that all's well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With those words hanging in the room all big and pink, Vimes stepped out into the evening air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were people hanging around out there, in little groups of three or four, talking among themselves and occasionally turning to look at the Watch House.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat down on the steps, and took a sip of his cocoa.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He might as well have dropped his breeches. The groups opened up, became an audience. No man drinking a nonalcoholic chocolate beverage had ever been the centre of so much attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd been right. A closed door is an incitement to bravery. A man drinking from a mug, under a light, and apparently enjoying the cool night air, is an incitement to pause.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're breaking curfew, you know,” said a young man, with a quick dart forward, dart back movement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that right?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to arrest us, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not me,” said Vimes cheerfully. “I'm on my break.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah?” said the man. He pointed to Colon and Waddy. “They on their break too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They are now.” Vimes half turned. “Brew's up, lads. Off you go. No, no need to run, there's enough for everyone. And come back out when you've got it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the sound of pounding boots had died away, Vimes turned back and smiled at the group again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So when do you come <em class="calibre8">off</em> your break?” said the man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes paid him some extra attention. The stance was a giveaway. He was ready to fight, even though he didn't look like a fighter. If this were a bar room, the bartender would be taking the more expensive bottles off the shelf, because amateurs like that tended to spread the glass around. Ah, yes…and now he could see why the words “bar room” had occurred to him. There was a bottle sticking out of the man's pocket. He'd been drinking his defiance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, around Thursday, I reckon,” said Vimes, eyeing the bottle. There was laughter from somewhere in the growing crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why Thursday?” said the drinker.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got my day off on Thursday.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a few more laughs this time. When the tension is drawing out, it doesn't take much to snap it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I demand you arrest me!” said the drinker. “Come on, try it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not drunk enough,” said Vimes. “I should go home and sleep it off, if I was you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man's hand grasped the neck of the bottle. Here it comes, thought Vimes. By the look of him, the man had one chance in five…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, the crowd wasn't too big yet. What you didn't need at a time like this was people at the back, craning to see and asking what was going on. And the lit-up Watch House was fully illuminating the lit-up man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Friend, if you take my advice you'll not consider that,” said Vimes. He took another sip of his cocoa. It was only lukewarm now, but along with the cigar it meant that both his hands were occupied. That was important. He wasn't holding a weapon. No one could say afterwards that he had a weapon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm no friend to you people!” snapped the man, and smashed the bottle on the wall by the steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The glass tinkled to the ground. Vimes watched the man's face, watched the expression change from drink-fuelled anger to agonizing pain, watched the mouth open…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man swayed. Blood began to ooze from between his fingers and a low, thin animal sound escaped from between his teeth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That was the tableau, under the light—Vimes sitting down with his hands full, the bleeding man several feet away. No fight, no one had touched anyone…he knew the way rumour worked, and he wanted this picture to fix itself in people's minds. There was even ash still on the cigar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stayed very still for a few seconds, and then stood up, all concern.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, one of you help me, will you?” he said, tugging off his breastplate and the chain-mail shirt underneath it. He grabbed his shirt sleeve and tore off a long strip.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of men, jerked into action by the voice of command, steadied the man who was dripping blood. One of them reached for the hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leave it,” Vimes commanded, tightening the strip of sleeve around the man's unresisting wrist. “He's got a handful of broken glass. Lay him down as gently as you can before he falls over but don't touch <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> until I've got this tourniquet on. Sam, go into the stable and pinch Marilyn's blanket for the boy. Anyone here know Doctor Lawn? Speak up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone among the awed bystanders volunteered that they did, and was sent running for him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was aware of the circle watching him; a lot of the watchmen were peering around the doorway now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Saw this happen once,” he said aloud, and added mentally “in ten years' time. It was in a bar fight. Man grabbed a bottle, didn't know how to smash it, ended up with a hand full of shards and the other guy reached down and <em class="calibre8">squeezed</em>.” There was a satisfying groan from the crowd. “Anyone know who this man is?” he added. “Come on, <em class="calibre8">someone</em> must…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A voice in the crowd volunteered that the man could well be Joss Gappy, an apprentice shoemaker from New Cobblers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's hope we can save his hand, then,” said Vimes. “I need a new pair of boots.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't funny at all but it got another of those laughs, the ones people laugh out of sheer frightened nervousness. Then the crowd parted as Lawn came through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” he said, kneeling down by Gappy. “You know, I don't know why I own a bed. Trainee bottle fighter?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like you've done the right things but I need light and a table,” said Lawn. “Can your men take him into the Watch House?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had hoped it wouldn't come to that. Oh well, you had to make the best of it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pointed randomly at figures in the crowd. “You and you and you and you and you too, lady,” he said. “You can help Fred and Waddy take this young man inside, okay? And you're to stop with him, and we'll leave the doors open, right? All you lot out here'll know what's going on. We've got no secrets here. Everyone understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but you're a copper—” a voice began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes darted forward and hauled a frightened young man out of the crowd by his shirt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I am,” he said. “And see that lad over there? He's a copper, too. His name's Sam Vimes. He lives in Cockbill Street with his mum. And that's Fred Colon, just got married, got a couple of rooms in Old Cobblers. And Exhibit C there is Waddy, everyone round here knows Waddy. Billy Wiglet there, he was born in this street. Have I asked you your name?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">'N-no…' the man mumbled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's 'cos I don't <em class="calibre8">care</em> who you are,” said Vimes, letting the man go and looking round at the crowd. “Listen to me, all of you! My name's John Keel! No one gets taken into this Watch House without me knowing why! You're all here as witnesses! Those of you I pointed out, you come on inside to see fair play all round. Do the rest of you want to hang around to see what happens to Gappy? Fine, I'll get Snouty to bring you out some cocoa. Or you can go home. It's a cold night. You ought to be in your beds. I know I'd like to be in mine. And, yes, we know about Dolly Sisters and we don't like it any more than you do. And we've heard about Dimwell Street and we don't like <em class="calibre8">that</em>, either. And that's all I've got to say tonight. Now…anyone who still wants to take a swing at a copper can step right up, if they want to. I've got my uniform off. We'll have a go, here and now, fair and square, in front of everyone. Anyone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something brushed his shoulder and clattered on the Watch House steps. Then there was the sound of slipping tiles from a roof on the other side, and a man fell off the roof and into the pool of light. There were gasps from the crowd, and one or two short screams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like you got a volunteer,” said someone. There was the horrible nervous sniggering again. The crowd parted to let Vimes view the sudden arrival.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man was dead. If he hadn't been when he fell off the roof he was after he'd hit the ground, because no neck normally looked like that. A crossbow had fallen down with him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes remembered the draught across his shoulder, and went back to the Watch House steps. It didn't take long to find the arrow, which had broken into several pieces.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyone know this man?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd, even those members of it who hadn't been able to get a good look at the fallen bowman, indicated definite ignorance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went through the man's pockets. Every single one was empty, which was all the evidence of identification he needed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like it's going to be a long night,” he said, signalling Colon to take this body inside, too. “I've got to get on with my work, ladies and gentlemen. If anyone wants to stay, and frankly I'll be obliged if you do, I'll send some lads out to build a fire. Thank you for your patience.” He picked up his mail and breastplate and went back inside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're they doing?” he said to Sam, without turning round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of them are wandering off but most of 'em are standing around, sarge,” said Sam, peering around the door. “Sarge, one of them shot at you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Who says the man on the roof was one of them? That's an expensive bow. And he didn't have anything in his pockets. <em class="calibre8">Nothing.</em> Not so much as a used hanky.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very odd, sarge,” said Sam loyally.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Especially since I was expecting a piece of paper saying something like ‘I am definitely a member of a revolutionary cadre, trust me on this’,” said Vimes, looking carefully at the corpse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, that'd tell us he was a revolutionary all right,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed and stared at the wall a moment. Then he said: “Anyone notice anything about his bow?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the new Bolsover A7,” said Fred Colon. “Not a bad bow, sarge. Not an Assassin's weapon, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's true,” said Vimes, and twisted the dead man's head so they could see the tip of the little metal dart behind the ear. “But this is. Fred, you know everyone. Where can I get some ginger beer at this time of night?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ginger beer, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why do—” Colon began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't ask, Fred. Just get half a dozen bottles, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned to the desk on which, surrounded by a fascinated crowd, Dr Lawn was at work on the stricken Gappy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How's it going?” said Vimes, pushing through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Slower than it'd go if people got out of the damn light,” said Lawn, carefully moving his tweezers to a mug by Gappy's hand and dropping a bloody fragment of glass therein. “I've seen worse on a Friday night. He'll keep the use of his fingers, if that's what you want to know. He just won't be making any shoes for a while. Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was general crowd approval. Vimes looked around at the people and the coppers. There were one or two muted conversations going on; he heard phrases like “bad business” and “they say that—” above the general noise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd played the cards well enough. Most of the lads here lived within a street or two. It was one thing to have a go at faceless bastards in uniform, but quite another to throw stones at old Fred Colon or old Waddy or old Billy Wiglet, who you'd known since you were two years old and played Dead Rat Conkers with in the gutter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn put the tweezers down and pinched the bridge of his nose. “That's it,” he said wearily. “A bit of stitching and he'll be fine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And there's some others I need you to take a look at,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, that comes as no surprise,” said the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One's got a lot of holes in his feet, one dropped through the privy roof and has got a twisted leg, and one's dead.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think I can do much about the dead one,” said the doctor. “How do you know he's dead? I realize that I may regret asking that question.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's got a broken neck from falling off a roof and I reckon he fell off because he got a steel crossbow bolt in his brain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. That sounds like dead, if you want my medical opinion. Did you do it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you're a busy man, sergeant. You can't be everywhere.” The doctor's face cracked into a grin when he saw Vimes go red, and he walked over to the corpse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I'd say that life is definitely extinct,” he said. “And?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want you to write that down, please. On paper. With official-sounding words like ‘contusion’ and ‘abrasions’. I want you to write that down, and I want you to write down what time you found he was dead. And then if you don't mind two lads'll take you down to look at the other two, and after you've treated them, thank you, I'd like you to sign another piece of paper saying you did and I called you in. Two copies of everything, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right. Dare I ask why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want anyone to say I did it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why should anyone say that? You told me he fell off a roof!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These are suspicious times, doctor. Ah, here's Fred. Any luck?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Colon was carrying a box. He put it down on his desk with a grunt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Old Mrs Arbiter didn't like being knocked up in the middle of the night,” he announced. “I had to give her a dollar!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't dare look at Lawn's face. “Really?” he said, as innocently as possible. “And you got the ginger beer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Six pints of her best stuff,” said Colon. “There's three pence back on the bottles, by the way. And…er…” He shuffled uneasily. “Er…I heard they set fire to the Watch House at Dolly Sisters, sarge. It's very bad up at Nap Hill, too. And, er…the Chittling Street House got all its windows broke, and up at the Leastgate House some of the lads went out to stop kids throwing stones and, er, one of them drew his sword, sarge…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He'll probably live, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Dr Lawn looked about him at the crowded office, where people were still talking. Snouty was going round with a tray of cocoa. Out in the street, some of the watchmen were standing around a makeshift fire with the remnant of the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I must say I'm impressed,” he said. “Sounds like you're the only Watch House not under siege tonight. I don't want to know how you did it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Luck played a part,” said Vimes. “And I've got three men who carry no personal identification whatsoever in the cells, and another anonymous would-be assassin who has been assassinated.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite a problem,” said Lawn. “Now me, I just have to deal with simple mysteries like what the rash means.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I intend to solve mine quite quickly,” said Vimes.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36387779" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Assassin moved quietly from roof to roof until he was well away from the excitement around the Watch House.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His movements could be called cat-like, except that he did not stop to spray urine up against things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Eventually he reached one of the upper world's many hidden places, where several thickets of chimneys made a little sheltered space, invisible from the ground and from most of the surrounding roofscape. He didn't enter it immediately, but circled it for a while, moving with absolute silence from one vantage point to another.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What would have intrigued a watcher who knew the ways of Ankh-Morpork's Guild of Assassins was how <em class="calibre8">invisible</em> this one was. When he moved, you saw movement; when he stopped, he wasn't there. Magic would have been suspected and, in an oblique way, the watcher would have been right. Ninety per cent of most magic merely consists of knowing one extra fact.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At last the figure appeared satisfied, and dropped into the space. He picked up a bag from its nesting place between the smoking pots, and there was some faint swishing and heavier breathing that suggested clothes were being changed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a minute or so he emerged from the hidden niche and now, somehow, he was visible. Hard to see, yes, one shadow among others, but nevertheless <em class="calibre8">there</em> in a way that he had not been before, when he'd been as visible as the breeze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He dropped lightly on to a lean-to roof and thence to the ground, where he stepped into a handy shadow. Then there was a further transformation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was done quite easily. The evil little crossbow was disassembled and slipped into the pockets of a clink-free velvet bag, the soft leather slippers were exchanged for a pair of heavier boots that had been stashed in the shadow, and the black hood was pushed back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked lightly around the corner and waited a few minutes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A coach came along, its torches trailing flame. It slowed briefly, and its door opened and shut.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Assassin settled back in his seat as the coach picked up speed again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a very faint lamp in the carriage. Its glow revealed a female figure relaxing in the shadows opposite. As the coach passed a torch there was a suggestion of lilac silk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've missed a bit,” said the figure. It produced a lilac-coloured handkerchief and held it in front of the young man's face. “Spit,” came the command.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reluctantly, he did so. A hand wiped his cheek, and then held the cloth up to the light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dark green,” said the woman. “How strange. I understand, Havelock, that you scored zero in your examination for stealthy movement.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“May I ask how you found that out, Madam?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, one hears things,” Madam said lightly. “One just has to hold money up to one's ear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it was true,” said the Assassin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And why was this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The examiner thought I'd used trickery. Madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And did you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. I thought that was the idea.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you never attended his lessons, he said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I did. Religiously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says he never saw you at any of them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Havelock smiled. “And your point, Madam, is…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Madam laughed. “Will you take some champagne?” There was the sound of a bottle moving in an ice bucket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, Madam, but no.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As you wish. I shall. And now…report, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't believe what I saw. I thought he was a thug. And he is a thug. You can see his muscles thinking for him. But he overrules them moment by moment! I think I saw a genius at work, but…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's just a sergeant, Madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't underestimate him on that account. It is a very useful rank for the right man. The optimum balance of power and responsibility. Incidentally, they say he can read the street through the soles of his boots and keeps them very thin for that purpose.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm. There are plenty of different surfaces, that's true, but…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're always so solemn about these things, Havelock. Not at all like your late father. Think…mythologically. He can read the <em class="calibre8">street</em>. He can hear its voice, take its temperature, read its mind; it talks to him through his boots. Policemen are just as superstitious as other people. Every other Watch House was attacked tonight. Oh, Swing's people egged it on, but it was malice and stupidity that did the most damage. But not in Treacle Mine Road. No. Keel opened the doors and let the street inside. I wish I knew more about him. I'm told that in Pseudopolis he was considered to be slow, thoughtful, sensible. He certainly seems to have bloomed here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I inhumed a man who attempted to nip him in the bud.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? That doesn't sound like Swing. How much do I owe you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The young man called Havelock gave a shrug. “Call it a dollar,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's very cheap.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He wasn't worth more. I should warn you, though. Soon you may want me to deal with Keel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Surely someone like him wouldn't side with people like Winder and Swing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a side all by himself. He is a complication. You may think it best if he…ceased to complicate.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rattling of the coach underlined the silence this remark caused. It was moving through a richer part of the city now, where there was more light and the curfew, being for poorer people, was less rigorously observed. The figure opposite the Assassin stroked the cat on her lap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. He'll serve some purpose,” said Madam. “Everyone is telling me about Keel. In a world where we all move in curves he proceeds in a straight line. And going straight in a world of curves makes things happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She stroked the cat. It yowled softly. It was ginger and had an expression of astonishing smugness, although periodically it scratched at its collar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On a different subject,” she said, “what was that business with the book? I did not like to take too much notice.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it was an extremely rare volume I was able to track down. On the nature of concealment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That stupid hulk of a boy burned it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. That was a piece of luck. I was afraid he might try to read it, although,” Havelock smiled wanly, “someone would have had to help him with the longer words.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was it valuable?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Priceless. Especially now it has been destroyed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. It contained information of value. Possibly involving the colour dark green. Will you tell me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">could</em> tell you,” Havelock smiled again. “But then I would have to find someone to pay me to kill you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then don't tell me. But I do think Dog-botherer is an unpleasant nickname.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When your name is Vetinari, Madam, you're happy enough if it's merely Dog-botherer. Can you drop me off a little way from the Guild, please? I'll go in via the roof. I have a tiger to attend to before I go up to…you know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A tiger. How exciting.” She stroked the cat again. “You've found your way in yet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari shrugged. “I've known my way for years, Madam. But now he has half a regiment around the palace. Four or five guards on each door, with irregular patrols and spot checks. I can't get through them. Only let me get inside, please, and the men there are no problem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cat pawed at its collar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it possible that he is allergic to diamonds?” said Madam. She held up the cat. “Is oo allergic to diamonds, den?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Havelock sighed, but inwardly, because he respected his aunt. He just wished she was a bit more sensible about cats. He felt instinctively that if you were going to fondle a cat while discussing matters of intrigue, then it should be a long-haired white one. It shouldn't be an elderly street tom with irregular bouts of flatulence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about the sergeant?” he said, shifting along the seat as politely as possible.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lady all in lilac lowered the cat gently on to the seat. There was a distressing smell.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I should meet Mr Keel as soon as possible,” she said. “Perhaps he can be harnessed. The party is tomorrow night. Uh…do you mind opening the window?”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388066" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">A little later that night, Downey was walking unsteadily back to his study after a convivial time in the Prefects' Common Room when he noticed that a torch had gone out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a swiftness that might have surprised someone who saw no further than his flushed face and unsteady walk, he pulled out a dagger and scanned the corridor. He glanced up at the ceiling, too. There were grey shadows everywhere, but nothing more than that. Sometimes, torches did go out all by themselves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stepped forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he woke up in his bed next morning he put the headache down to some bad brandy. And some scag had painted orange and black stripes on his face.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388088" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It started to rain again. Vimes liked the rain. Street crime went down when it rained. People stayed indoors. Some of the best nights of his career had been rainy, when he'd stood in the shadows in the lee of some building, head tucked in so that there was barely anything showing between his helmet and his collar, and listened to the silvery rustle of the rain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once he'd been standing so quietly, so withdrawn, so <em class="calibre8">not there</em> that a fleeing robber, who'd evaded his pursuers, had leaned against him to catch his breath. And, when Vimes put his arms around him and whispered “Gotcha!” into his ear, the man had apparently done in his trousers what his dear mother, some forty years before, had very patiently taught him not to do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The people had gone home. The sewn-up Gappy had been escorted to New Cobblers, where Fred Colon had patiently explained events to the man's parents with his round red face radiating honesty. Lawn was possibly getting some use out of his bed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the rain gurgled in the downpipes and gushed from the gargoyles and swirled in the gutters and deadened all sound.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Useful stuff, rain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes picked up the bottle of Mrs Arbiter's best ginger beer. He remembered it. It was as gassy as hell and therefore hugely popular. A young boy could, with encouragement and training, eventually manage to belch the whole first verse of the national anthem after just one swig. This is an important social attribute when you're eight years old.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd chosen Colon and Waddy for this task. He wasn't going to involve young Sam. It wasn't that what he was planning was illegal, as such, it was just that it had the same colour and smell as something illegal and Vimes didn't want to have to explain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cells were old, much older than the building above them. The iron cages were fairly new, and didn't take up all the space. There were other cellars beyond an arch, containing nothing more than rats and rubbish but, importantly, they couldn't be seen from the cages.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes got the men to carry the dead bowman through. Nothing wrong with that. It was the middle of the night, filthy weather, no sense in waking up the people at the mortuary when there was a nice cold cellar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched through the spy hole in the door as the body was taken past the cells. It caused a certain stir, especially in the first man he'd brought in. The other two had the look of men who'd seen a lot of bad stuff in the name of making money; if they were hired to steal or murder or be a copper it was all the same to them, and they'd learned not to react too readily to deaths that were not their own.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The first man, though, was getting nervous.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had nicknamed him Ferret. He was the best-dressed of the three, all in black; the dagger had been expensive and, Vimes had noticed, he had a silver Death's Head ring on one finger. The other two had dressed nondescript and their weapons had been workmanlike, nothing much to look at but well used.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No real Assassin would wear jewellery at work. It was dangerous and it shone. But Ferret wanted to be a big man. He probably checked himself in the mirror before he went out, to make sure he looked cool. He was the sort of little twerp that got a kick out of showing his dagger to women in bars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ferret, in short, had big dreams. Ferret had an imagination.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, that was <em class="calibre8">fine</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen returned, and picked up the packages Vimes had prepared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Remember, we do it fast,” he said. “They're worried, they're tired, no one's come for them and they've just seen a very dead colleague. We don't want to give the first two time to think. Understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They nodded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we leave the little one until last. I want him to have lots of time…”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388194" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ferret was considering his prospects. Regrettably, this didn't take long.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd already had a row with the other two. Some rescue team they'd been. They weren't even dressed right. But the brown-jobs hadn't done things as per spec. Everyone knew they backed away. They weren't supposed to fight back or show any kind of <em class="calibre8">intelligence</em>. They—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The main cell door was flung back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's <em class="calibre8">ginger beer</em> time!” roared someone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And a watchman ran through with a box of bottles, and disappeared into the rooms beyond.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There wasn't much light in here. Ferret cowered against the wall and saw two watchmen unlock the cell next door, drag the shackled occupant upright and out into the cellar and then hustle him around the corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voices had a slight echo.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hold him down. Mind his legs!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! Let's have the bottle! Give it a proper shake, otherwise it won't work!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, friend. Anything you want to tell us? Your name? No? Well, it's like this. Right now, we don't care a whole lot if you talk or not…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a loud pop, a hiss and then…a scream, an explosion of agony.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After it had died away the trembling Ferret heard someone say, “Quick, get the next one, before the captain catches us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He cringed back as two watchmen rushed into the next cell, dragged out the struggling prisoner and hustled him into the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right. One chance. Are you going to talk? Yes? No? Too late!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again the pop, once again the hiss, once again the scream. It was louder and longer this time, and ended in a kind of bubbling sound.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ferret crouched against the wall, fingers in his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Around the corner, sitting in the light of one lantern, Colon nudged Vimes, wrinkled his nose and pointed down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a gully that ran between all the cells, as a primitive sop to hygiene. Now a thin trickle was inching its way along it. Ferret was nervous.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Gotcha, thought Vimes. But a good imagination needs a little more time. He leaned forward, and the other two moved closer expectantly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” he said in a low whisper, “have you boys had your holidays yet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a few minutes of very small talk he stood up, strode round to the last occupied cell, unlocked the door, and grabbed Ferret, who was trying to squeeze into a corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! Please! I'll tell you whatever you want to know!” the man yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes. “What's the orbital velocity of the moon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you'd like something simpler?” said Vimes, dragging the man out of the cell. “Fred! Waddy! He wants to talk! Bring a notebook!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It took half an hour. Fred Colon wasn't a fast writer. And when the painful sound of his efforts concluded with the stab of his last full stop, Vimes said: “Okay, sir. And now you write down at the end: I, Gerald Leastways, currently staying at the Young Men's Pagan Association, am making this statement of my own free will and not under duress. And then you sign it. Or else. Got it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The initials GL had been inscribed on the dagger. Vimes believed them. He'd met plenty of Leastwayses in his career, and they tended to spill their guts at the mere thought of spilling their guts. And when they did, you got everything. Anyone who had seen the ginger beer trick used on someone else would confess to <em class="calibre8">anything</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, now,” he said cheerfully, standing up. “Thank you for your co-operation. Want a lift to Cable Street?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ferret's expression, if not his mouth, said “huh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've got to drop off your friends,” Vimes went on, raising his voice slightly. “Todzy and Muffer. We'll drop the dead one off at the mortuary. Just a bit of paperwork for you.” He nodded at Colon. “One copy of your helpful statement. One certificate of death from the pox doctor for the late mystery man, and rest assured we'll try to track down his murderer. A chitty from Mossy about the ointment he put on Muffer's feet. Oh…and a receipt for six bottles of ginger beer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He put a hand on Ferret's shoulder and gently walked him round into the next cellar, where Todzy and Muffer were sitting gagged, bound and livid with rage. On a table near by was a box containing six flagons of ginger beer. The corks were heavily wired down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ferret stared at Vimes, who inserted a finger in his mouth, blew up his cheeks and flicked out the finger with a loud pop.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Waddy hissed between his teeth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon opened his mouth but Vimes clamped his hand over it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, don't,” he said. “Funny thing, Gerald, but Fred here just screams out loud at times for no reason at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre8">tricked</em> me!” Ferret wailed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes patted him on the shoulder. “Tricked?” he growled. “How so, Gerald?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You made me think you were doing the ginger beer trick!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ginger beer trick?” said Vimes, his brow wrinkling. “What's that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know! You brought the stuff down here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't drink alcohol on duty, Gerald,” said Vimes severely. “What's wrong with a little ginger beer? We don't know any tricks with the stuff, Gerald. What tricks do you know? Seen any good tricks lately, Gerald? Do tell!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At last it dawned on Ferret that he should stop talking. It was about half an hour too late. The expressions on what could be seen of the faces of Todzy and Muffer suggested that they wanted a very personal word with him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I demand protective custody,” he managed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just when I'm letting you go, Gerald?” said Vimes. “As you said in your statement…what was it, Fred? Something about just obeying orders? All that stuff about mixing with the mobs and throwing things at coppers and soldiers, you didn't want to do that, I know. You didn't like being round in Cable Street watching people being beaten up and being told what to confess to, 'cos it's plain to me that you're not that sort. You're small fry, I understand that. I say we call it quits, how about you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please! I'll tell you all I know!” Ferret squeaked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean you <em class="calibre8">haven't</em>?” Vimes roared. He spun round and grabbed a bottle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes! No! I mean, if I sit quiet I'm sure I'll remember some more!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes held his gaze for a moment, and then dropped the bottle back in the crate. “All right,” he said. “It'll be a dollar a day, meals extra.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched Ferret scuttle back into his cell and shut the door behind him, then he turned to Fred and Waddy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go and wake up Marilyn,” he said. “Let's deliver the other three.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388443" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rain was falling steadily and a thin mist filled Cable Street. The wagon came out of nowhere. Fred had urged Marilyn into something approaching a canter down the street, and when the horse came around the corner she was trying to keep ahead of the heavy, rumbling cart behind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As the hurry-up wagon passed the station the rear door was flung open and two bodies were tumbled out on to the wet cobbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards rushed forward. One or two of them fired after the retreating cart but the arrows clattered harmlessly off the black iron strips.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other men approached the tied-up bodies with some care. There were groans, punctuated by swearwords. And, pinned to one man, some paperwork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They read the note. They did not laugh.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388469" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes unharnessed the old horse, rubbed her down and checked on her feed. Perhaps it was his imagination, but the feed bins seemed fuller than they had been. Guilty consciences were at work, maybe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he walked out into the cool night air. The lights were on in the Watch House. It was a beacon, now that the street lamps had been doused. Beyond the walls of the yard the real night had closed in, the old night with its tendrils of fog and crawling shadows. He relaxed, and wore it like an overcoat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">A shadow near the gate was deeper than it ought to be</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He felt for his cigar case again, cursed, and pulled a cigar out of his shirt sleeve. He cupped his hands when he lit it, but kept his eyes tight shut to hold the night vision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he looked up, and blew a smoke ring. <em class="calibre8">Yes. Everyone thought black didn't show up at night. They were wrong.</em></div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked over to shut the gate and then pulled out his sword in one fluid movement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sadie raised her head, revealing a pale oval of a face in the depths of her bonnet. “Good morning, kind sir,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning, Sadie,” said Vimes wearily. “To what do I owe this pleasure?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Madam wants to see you, kind sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you mean Rosie, I've been a bit busy—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Dotsie's handbag hit him on the back of the head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Madam doesn't like waiting, dearie,” were the last words he heard before night closed in all the way.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388528" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Aunts were experts. Probably not even Mossy Lawn could turn someone off with such precision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes drifted awake. He was in an armchair. It was extremely comfortable. And someone was shaking him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was Sandra the Real Seamstress. She stared at him and said, “He looks okay…” Then she stepped back, sat down in another chair, and aimed a crossbow at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know,” said Vimes—it really was a comfortable chair, and reminded him of the softness that had gone from his life in the past few days; it hadn't been all bad—“if someone wants to talk to me, they only have to bloody well ask.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sadie said you'd only be out for ten minutes, but then you started to snore so we thought we'd let you sleep for a while,” said Rosie Palm, stepping into view. She was wearing a red off-the-shoulder evening dress, an impressively large wig and quite a lot of jewellery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it costs a lot of money to look as cheap as this, sergeant,” she said, catching his expression. “I can't stop, I must go and talk to people. Now, if you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Snapcase has promised you ladies that you'll be allowed to form a Guild, right?” said Vimes. It was another cheating move, but he was fed up with waking up in odd places. “Yes, I thought so. And you believe him? It's not going to happen. When he's the Patrician he'll look right through you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'll end up looking through everything, he added to himself. Mad Lord Snapcase. Just another Winder, but with fancier waistcoats and more chins. Same cronyism, same piggy ways, same stupid arrogance, one more leech in a line of leeches that'd make Vetinari seem like a breath of clean air. Ha…Vetinari. Yes, he'd be around here somewhere too, no doubt, learning that little expression he had which never, ever gave you a clue what he was thinking…But he'll be the one to give you the Guild you want so much. He's here somewhere. I know it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't expect anything from Snapcase,” he said aloud. “Remember, there were people who thought Winder was the future, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He derived some minor pleasure from seeing the look on Rosie Palm's face. At last she said: “Give him a drink, Sandra. If he moves, shoot an eye out. I'll let Madam know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you expect me to believe that she'll fire that?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sandra has a very useful streak of belligerence,” said Rosie. “A gentleman was being…impolite yesterday and she came running in and…you'll be surprised at what she did with her mushroom.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes eyed the crossbow. The girl had a very steady hand. “I don't think I quite under—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a wooden thing to make it easier to darn socks,” said Sandra. “I hit him behind the ear with it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave her a blank look for a while and then said: “Fine. Fine. I'm sitting very still, believe me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good,” said Rosie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She swept out and it was a real sweep, the dress brushing the ground. There were big, expensive double doors. When she opened them, the noise of a meeting filled the room. There was conversation, the smell of cigar smoke and alcohol, and a voice said “—to change the dominant episteme—” before the doors breathed shut.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stayed seated. He was getting attached to the chair and on current showing someone was likely to hit him again soon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sandra, still holding the bow, placed a very large glass of whiskey beside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know,” he said, “in times to come people will wonder how all those weapons got smuggled around the city.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it's because the lads in the Watch never bother about the seamstresses, curfew or no curfew,” said Vimes, staring at the whiskey. “Or posh coaches,” he added. “A watchman can get into real trouble if he tries that.” He could smell the stuff from here. It was the good stuff from the mountains, not the local rubbish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You didn't tell anyone about the basket,” said Sandra. “Or hand us over to the Unmentionables. Are you one of us?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I doubt it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you don't know who we are!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I still doubt it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he was aware of the doors opening and shutting, and the rustle of a long dress.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Keel? I've heard so much about you! Please leave us, Sandra. I'm sure the good sergeant can be trusted with a lady.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Madam was only a little shorter than Vimes. Could be from Genua, he thought, or spent a lot of time there. Trace of it in the accent. Brown eyes, brown hair—but a woman's hair could be any colour tomorrow—and a purple dress that looked more expensive than most. And an expression that said quite clearly that the owner knew what was going to happen and was going along with things just to make sure—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't forget the intricately painted fingernails,” she said. “But if you're trying to guess my weight, don't expect to get any help from me. You can call me Madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She sat down in a chair opposite him, put her hands together and stared at him over the top of them. “Who are you working for?” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm an officer of the City Watch,” said Vimes. “Brought here under duress…madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The woman waved a hand. “You're free to go whenever you wish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a comfy chair,” said Vimes. He was damned if he'd be dismissed. “Are you really from Genua?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you really from Pseudopolis?” Madam smiled at him. “I find, personally, that it pays never to be from somewhere close at hand. It makes life so much easier. But I have spent a lot of time in Genua, where I have…business interests.” She smiled at him. “And now you're thinking ‘old seamstress’, no doubt?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Actually I was thinking bespoke tailoring,” said Vimes, and she burst out laughing. “But mostly,” he added, “I was thinking ‘revolutionary’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Continue, sergeant.” Madam stood up. “Do you mind if I have some champagne? I'd offer you some, but I understand that you don't drink.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at the brimming whiskey glass beside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were just checking,” said Madam, hauling a large bottle out of an industrial-capacity ice bucket. “You're not a sergeant. Rosie was right. You've been an officer. More than just any old officer, too. You're so <em class="calibre8">composed</em>, Sergeant Keel. Here you are, in a big house, in a lady's boudoir, with a woman of uneasy virtue,” Madam up-ended the bottle into what appeared to be a blue mug with a teddy bear on it, “and you appear unfussed. Where <em class="calibre8">are</em> you from? You may smoke, by the way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Somewhere a long way off,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Uberwald?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have…business interests in Uberwald,” said Madam. “Alas, the situation there is becoming quite unstable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. I see,” said Vimes. “And you'd like to have the significant pause type of business interests in Ankh-Morpork, I expect. If it can be stabilized.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Very</em> good. Let us say that I think this city has a wonderful future and that I would like to be part of it, and that you are remarkably perspicacious.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Vimes. “I'm very simple. I just know how things work. I just follow the money. Winder is a madman, and that's not good for business. His cronies are criminals, and that's not good for business. A new Patrician will need new friends, far-sighted people who want to be part of a wonderful future. One that's good for business. That's how it goes. Meetings in rooms. A little diplomacy, a little give and take, a promise here, an understanding there. That's how real revolutions happen. All that stuff in the streets is just froth…” Vimes nodded to the doors. “Guests for a late supper? That was Doctor Follett's voice. A clever man, they used to– they call him. He'll pick the right side. If you've got the big Guilds with you, Winder is a dead man walking. But Snapcase won't do you much good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Many people have great hopes of him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think he's a scheming, self-serving fool. But he's the best there is, at the moment. And where do you come in, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? I'm staying outside. You've got nothing that I want.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't want <em class="calibre8">anything</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want lots of things, my lady. But you can't give them to me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How would you like to be back in command?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The question hit him like a hammer. This was <em class="calibre8">history</em>. She couldn't know! How could she know?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” said Madam, who had watched his expression. “Rosemary did say thieves took some <em class="calibre8">very</em> expensive armour off you. Fit for a general, I hear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She opened another bottle. Properly, too, Vimes noticed, through the shock. None of that amateur business with rocketing corks and wasted bubbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wouldn't that be strange if it was true?” Madam mused. “A street-fighting man with the manner of a commander and the breastplate of a leader.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And who needs to know how he got here?” said Madam, to the air in general. “We could take the view that here at last is a man who could truly take command of the City Watch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The first thought that fizzed in Vimes's head like champagne was: bloody hell, I could do it! Chuck Swing out on his arse, promote some decent sergeants—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The second thought was: in this city? Under Snapcase? Now? We'd just be another gang. The third thought was: this is insane. It can't happen. It never did happen. You want to go home to Sybil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Thoughts one and two shuffled out of the way, feeling ashamed of themselves and mumbling <em class="calibre8">yeah, right…Sybil…yeah, obviously…right…sorry…</em>until they faded into silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've always had a talent for seeing promise,” said Madam, while he still stared at nothing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The fourth thought rose in the darkness like some ugly creature from the depths.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">You didn't think about Sybil until thought three,</em> it whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He blinked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know the city needs—” Madam began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want to go home,” said Vimes. “I'm going to finish the job that's in front of me, and then I'm going home. That's what I'm going to do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There are those who would say that if you are not for us, you're against us,” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For you? For what? For <em class="calibre8">anything</em>? No! But I'm not for Winder, either. I'm not supposed to be ‘for’ people. And I don't take bribes. Not even if Sandra threatens me with a toadstool!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe it was a mushroom. Oh dear.” The lady gave him a smile. “You are incorruptible?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh dear, here we go again, thought Vimes. Why did I wait until I was married to become strangely attractive to powerful women? Why didn't it happen to me when I was sixteen? I could have done with it then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to glare, but that probably only made it worse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've met a few incorruptible men,” said Madam Meserole. “They tend to die <em class="calibre8">horrible</em> deaths. The world balances out, you see. A corrupt man in a good world, or a good man in a corrupt one…the equation comes out the same way. The world does not deal well with those who don't pick a side.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I like the middle,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That gives you <em class="calibre8">two</em> enemies. I'm amazed that you can afford so many, on a sergeant's pay. Please think of what you could be giving up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am. And I'm not going to help people to die just to replace one fool with another.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then there is your door behind you, sergeant. I am very sorry we could not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—do business?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was <em class="calibre8">going</em> to say ‘reach a mutually beneficial agreement’. We are not very far from your Watch House. I wish you…luck.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She nodded towards the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Such a shame,” she said, and sighed.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388950" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stepped out into the rainy night, and shifted his weight from foot to foot, and then took a few experimental steps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corner of Easy and Treacle Mine. A mix of flat-top cobbles and old bricks. Yeah.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He went home.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36388965" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Madam stared at the closed door for a while, and then turned as the candles flickered slightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You really are very good,” she said. “How long have you been here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Havelock Vetinari stepped out of the shadow in the corner. He wasn't wearing official Assassin's black, but loose clothes that were…no real colour at all, just nondescript shades of grey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've been here quite long enough,” he said, sprawling into the chair that Vimes had vacated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not even the Aunts noticed you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People look but don't see. The trick is to help them see nothing. But I think Keel would have seen me, if I hadn't been over here. He stares into shadows. Interesting.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He is a very angry man,” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just made him angrier.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe you'll get your diversion,” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. I believe so, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Madam leaned over and patted him on the knee.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There,” she said, “your aunty thinks of everything…” She stood up. “I'd better go and entertain my guests. I am a very entertaining person. By tomorrow night, Lord Winder will not have many friends.” She drained her mug of champagne. “Doctor Follett is such a charming man, don't you think? Is that his own hair, do you know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have not sought the opportunity to find out,” said Havelock. “Is he trying to get you drunk?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Madam. “You have to admire him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say he can play a mean lute,” said Havelock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fascinating,” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She set her face into a genuine smile of pleasure and opened the big double doors at the other end of the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, doctor,” she said, stepping into the haze of smoke. “A little more champagne?”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36389047" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes slept in a corner, standing up. It was an old trick, shared by night watchmen and horses. It wasn't <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> sleep, you'd die if you tried to keep it up for more than a few nights, but it took some of the tiredness away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few of the other men had already mastered the trick. Others made use of tables or benches. No one seemed inclined to go home, even when a sort of dawn suffused the rain and Snouty came in with a cauldron of fearsome porridge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mug of tea, sarge?” said Snouty. “Stewed for an hour and two sugars.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a lifesaver, Snouty,” said Vimes, clasping it like the elixir of life.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An' there's some kid outside says he's got to speak to you, hnah, specially,” Snouty went on. “Shall I give him a clip alongside the head?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What does he smell like?” said Vimes, sipping the scalding, corrosive tea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bottom of a baboon's cage, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Nobby Nobbs. I'll go out and see him. Bring him a big bowl of porridge, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty looked uncomfortable about this. “If you'll, hnah, take my advice, sarge, it don't pay to encourage kids like—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See these stripes, Snouty? Well done. A big bowl.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took his tea out into the damp yard, where Nobby was lurking against a wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were hints that it was going to be a sunny day. That should bring things on, after the overnight rain. The lilacs, for example…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happening, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby waited a moment to see if a coin was forthcoming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pretty bad everywhere, sarge,” he said, giving up for now but remaining hopeful. “A constable got killed in Lobbin Clout. Hit by a stone, people say. Someone got their ear cut off 'cos of the fighting in Nap Hill. Cavalry charge, sarge. Running fights everywhere. All the Watch Houses got hit bad—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes listened gloomily to the list. It was the usual bloody business. Angry, frightened people on both sides, all crushed up together. It could only get worse. Nap Hill and Dolly Sisters sounded like war zones already.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">…see the little angels rise up high…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anything happen in Cable Street?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just a few people,” said Nobby. “A bit of shouting and running away, that sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes. Even a mob wasn't that stupid. It was still only the kids and the hotheads and the drunks now. It'd get worse. You'd have to be really mad to attack the Unmentionables.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's bad stuff happening everywhere,” said Nobby. “Except here, o'course. We're well out of it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No, thought Vimes. It'll pivot on us in the end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty emerged from the Watch House's rear door, carrying a big bowl of porridge with a spoon stuck in it. Vimes nodded towards Nobby, and the bowl was handed over with extreme reluctance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?” said Snouty, keeping his eye on the spoon as the boy ate or, more correctly, gobbled the stuff.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Snouty?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have we got any <em class="calibre8">orders</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know. Is the captain here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's it, sarge,” said Snouty. “A runner come last night with an envelope for the captain, and I took it up and there was the captain waiting, so I thought, this is funny, haha, I thought, he's not normally in this early—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Faster please, Snouty,” said Vimes, as the man started to watch the oscillating spoon again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, when I took him up his cocoa later on he was jus' sittin' there, hnah, starin' right at nothing. He said ‘thank you, Snouty’ when I give him the cocoa, hnah, though. Always very polite in that, hnah, respect. But when I went up just now he was gone.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's an old man, Snouty, you can't expect him to be here all—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So's his inkwell, sarge. He never took it home before.” And Vimes saw that Snouty's eyes were more red-rimmed than usual.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sighed. “Any sign of the envelope?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge,” said Snouty, glancing again at the spoon in Nobby's hand. It was a very cheap one, Vimes noted, made of some pot metal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In that case we just keep the peace, Snouty,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a lot of that about, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll have to see what we can find. Come with me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snouty looked reluctant. “Just want to keep an eye on the spoon, sarge; we've only got five left and kids like that one'll pinch the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He can <em class="calibre8">keep</em> the damn spoon!” said Vimes. “Spoons are not important at this point!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby downed the last scalding mouthful, stuck the spoon in his pocket, stuck out a porridge-laden tongue at Snouty, dropped the bowl on the ground and took to his heels.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes strode back into the office, picked up the porridge ladle and rattled it on the sides of the empty cauldron. Heads looked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, my sons! This is what we're going to do! All married men've got permission to nip home for an hour to stop your wives fretting! The rest of you, you're on unpaid overtime! Anyone surprised?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wiglet raised a hand. “We've all got family, sarge,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the best thing you can do for them is make sure there's a bit of law around the place,” said Vimes. “We don't know what's been happening in the other divisions, except that it sounds bad. So this House is staying open, understand? Day and night! Yes, lance-constable?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But our mum will be worrying, sarge,” said young Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated, but only for a moment. “Snouty'll nip out with any messages you have, lad. The same goes for everyone else,” he said. “We're going to go out on patrol soon. Yeah, I know we're Night Watch. So what? It's looking pretty black to me at the moment! Lance-constable, come on out in the yard, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes walked back out into the morning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In theory, one of the purposes of the yard was for training. It was seldom used for that. The Night Watch eschewed violence, as a rule. When threats or superior numbers had no effect, they preferred to run.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were some mouldering targets in a shed, along with some straw men for stabbing practice. Vimes tugged them out on to the cobbles as the lance-constable appeared behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you said these things were useless, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They are,” said Vimes. “I've put them here for you to land on. You're walking around, Sam, with a weapon you don't know how to use. That's worse than walking around knowing how to use a weapon and not having one. A man with a weapon he doesn't know how to use is likely to have it shoved where the sun does not shine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took off his breastplate and helmet, and tossed his sword belt into a corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, attack me,” he said. Out of the corner of his eye he saw that some of the men had wandered into the yard and were watching.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't just stab you, sarge!” Sam wailed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, but I'd like you to try.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam hesitated again. I wasn't <em class="calibre8">entirely</em> stupid, Vimes thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're grinning, sarge,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're just grinning and standing there, sarge,” said Sam. “I know I'm going to get a hiding, 'cos you haven't got a sword and you're grinning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Worried about getting blood on your nice sword, lad? All right, throw it away. Feel better? You were in a gang, right? Of course you were. Everyone was. You're still alive. So you must've learned how to fight.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, sarge, but that was, you know, dirty fighting…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're dirty people. Do your worst,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want to hurt you, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's your first mistake—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam spun and lashed out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stepped back, caught the foot and helped it on its journey upwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I was quick too, he thought, as Sam landed flat on his back. And not too bad at cunning. But I've learned artful since then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It showed in your eyes,” he said to the sprawling Sam. “But you've got hold of the basic idea. There's no rules.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sensed the change behind him. It included the very muffled sound of a chuckle. He glanced back at Sam, who was looking past him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The blow was a neat one, to the back of where the head would have been if Vimes hadn't stepped smartly sideways. As it was, he turned and grabbed the arm and looked into the face of Ned Coates.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice day off, Ned?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge, thank you. Just wanted to see how good you were.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He elbowed Vimes in the stomach and twisted away. There was some murmuring from the watchers but Vimes, bent double and with tears running from his eyes, raised a hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, it was fair enough, fair enough,” he panted. “We've all got something to learn.” He put his hands on his knees, wheezing a little more theatrically than he needed to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was impressed that Ned wasn't falling for it. The man kept his distance, circling slowly. He was holding his truncheon. A less experienced fighter would have come to check that ol' sarge was all right, and would have suffered for it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, sarge,” said Ned. “I want to see what you can teach <em class="calibre8">me</em>. Sam's too trusting.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's mind riffled desperately through options.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So, sarge,” said Ned, still moving, “what would you do, sarge, if you were unarmed and a man came at you with a truncheon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Get armed quick, thought Vimes, if I thought he was as good as you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ducked and rolled. Ned missed that. When Vimes started to move right he'd concentrated on the left, on the basis that from someone like Vimes the first move had to be a feint. By the time he caught himself and turned, Vimes had grabbed his scabbard and was rising, sword sliding out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, raising the stakes. Good lesson, sarge,” said Ned. He drew his own sword. It gleamed; most of the Watch swords would have had difficulty cutting butter. “Now we're level again. What next, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They circled. Blimey, thought Vimes, who taught him? And he's grinning, and no wonder. This isn't a contest. He knows I can't cut him, not like this, not in front of everyone. He can accidentally hit me and get away with it, but a sergeant's supposed to know better. And we can't raise the stakes any higher.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hold on…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He hurled the sword at the wall. It stuck in, by sheer luck. That impressed the watchers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got to give you a chance, Ned,” he said, moving away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You can always learn, Vimes thought. He remembered Gussie Two Grins. Sam wouldn't run into him for five years or so. It would be a real education. Two Grins was the dirtiest fighter Vimes had ever met. Anything was a weapon, anywhere was a target. Two Grins was a kind of genius in that limited area. He could see the weapon in anything—a wall, a cloth, a piece of fruit…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wasn't even a big man. He was small and wiry. But he liked fighting big men, on the basis that there was more of them to bite. After a few drinks, though, it was hard to know what Two Grins was fighting. He'd fight the man next to him simply as a substitute for kneeing the whole universe in the groin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd been called Two Grins ever since someone glassed him in the face; Gussie had been so marinated in adrenalin at that point that he regarded this as a mere detail. The scar had left a happy smiley face. Sam had learned a lot from Gussie Two Grins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's this about?” he murmured, just loud enough for Ned to hear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just want to find out what you know, sarge,” said Ned, still circling. “Seems to me you know too much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He lunged. Vimes darted back, flailed with the scabbard like a man with no hope and, as Ned laughed and leaned out of his way, shifted his grip on the stiff leather.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've got the helmet on, as per regulations,” said Ned. “And the armour. Hard to punch me out, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Even with Detritus yelling at them, not one watchman in seven really used a sword properly. Ned did. There weren't many openings.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh, well…time for artful.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took a step back, stopped, and saw what was happening behind Coates. He tried to hide it, but he couldn't stop the momentary flash of relief in his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Coates couldn't stop the momentary flicker of attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes punched up, the scabbard an extension of his arm. The stiff leather caught the man under the chin, thrusting his head back. Then the leather was brought down on the sword hand and, as an afterthought, Vimes kicked Ned on the shin just enough to make him collapse. He'd always had an allergy to edged weapons too near his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, nice try,” he said, and turned his back and faced the crowd. To the sound of gurgling behind him, he said, “Anything's a weapon, used right. Your bell is a club. Anything that pokes the other man hard enough to give you more time is a good thing. Never, ever threaten anyone with your sword unless you really mean it, because if he calls your bluff you suddenly don't have many choices and they're all the wrong ones. Don't be frightened to use what you learned when you were kids. We don't get marks for playing fair. And for close-up fighting, as your senior sergeant I explicitly forbid you to investigate the range of coshes, blackjacks and brass knuckles sold by Mrs Goodbody at No. 8 Easy Street, at a range of prices and sizes to suit all pockets, and should any of you approach me privately I absolutely will not demonstrate a variety of specialist blows suitable for these useful yet tricky instruments. Right, let's limber up. I want you all out here with your truncheons in two minutes. You think it's just a silly club. I will show you otherwise. Jump to it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to the stricken Ned, who'd raised himself to a sitting position.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice moves, Mr Coates. You didn't learn them in the Watch, I know that. Anything we need to discuss? Care to tell me where you were last night? Morphic Street, maybe?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Day off,” muttered Ned, rubbing his jaw.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, right. None of my business. Seems to me we've failed to hit it off, Ned.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'sright.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You think I'm some kind of spy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know you're not John Keel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes kept his face perfectly impassive—which was, he realized, a complete giveaway in itself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why d'you say that?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to tell you. You ain't a Watch sergeant, either. And you were lucky just now, and that's all I'm saying.” Ned got to his feet as the other watchmen filed out into the yard again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes let him go, and turned his attention to the men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">None of them had ever been taught anything. They'd learned, to a greater or usually a lesser extent, from one another. And Vimes knew where that road went. On that road coppers rolled drunks for their small change and assured one another that bribes were just perks, and it got worse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was all for getting recruits out on the street, but you had to train them first. You needed someone like Detritus bellowing at them for six weeks, and lectures about duty and prisoners' rights and the “service to the public”. And <em class="calibre8">then</em> you could hand them over to the street monsters who told them all the <em class="calibre8">other</em> stuff, like how to hit someone where it wouldn't leave a mark and when it was a good idea to stick a metal soup-plate down the front of your trousers before attending to a bar brawl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And if you were lucky and they were sensible, they found somewhere between impossible perfection and the Pit where they could be real coppers—slightly tarnished, because the job did that to you, but not rotten.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He formed them into twos and set them attacking and defending. It was dreadful to watch. He let it go on for five minutes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right,” he said, clapping his hands. “Very good indeed. When the circus comes to town I'll definitely recommend you.” The men sagged, and grinned sheepishly as he went on: “Don't you know <em class="calibre8">any</em> of the moves? The Throat Slam, the Red Hot Poker, the Ribrattler? Say I'm coming at you with a big, big club…what do you do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Run away, sarge,” said Wiglet. There was laughter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How far can you run?” said Vimes. “Got to fight sometime. Lance-Corporal Coates?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ned Coates had not been taking part. He'd been leaning against the wall in a sort of stationary swagger, watching the sad show with disdain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?” he said, propelling himself upright with the minimum of effort.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Show Wiglet how it's done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Coates pulled out his truncheon. It was, Vimes saw, custom-made, slightly longer than the general issue. He took up station in front of the constable, with his back very expressively towards Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you want me to do, sarge?” he said, over his shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Show him a few decent moves. Take him by surprise.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched the desultory clatter of sticks. One, two, three…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">–and around Ned came, truncheon whistling through the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Vimes ducked under the blow and caught the man's arm in both hands, twisting it up behind his back and bringing his ear into immediate conjunction with Vimes's mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not quite unexpected, sunshine,” he whispered. “Now, we'll both keep grinning because the lads are laughing at our Ned, isn't he a card, who keeps having another go at the ol' sarge, and we don't want to spoil their fun. I'm letting you go now, but you try it on one more time and you'll have to use both hands to pick up a spoon and you'll need to pick up a spoon, Ned, 'cos of living off soup by reason of having no damn <em class="calibre8">teeth</em>!” He relaxed his grip. “Who taught you all this stuff, anyway?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Keel, sarge,” said Ned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're doing a good job. Sergeant Keel!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned to see Captain Swing advancing across the yard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was smaller and slimmer in daylight and he looked like a clerk, and a clerk who was only erratically careful about his appearance; his hair was lank, and the thick black strands plastered across a central bald spot suggested that the man either had no mirror or completely lacked a sense of humour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His coat, in the light, was old-fashioned but well cared for, but his buckled shoes were scuffed and generally downtrodden. Vimes's mother would have had something to say about that. A man ought to look after his boots, she always said. You could tell a man by the shine of his shoes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing also carried a walking stick or, rather, an opera cane. It was just possible that he thought it made him look sophisticated rather than, say, like a man carrying an unnecessary length of wood. It was certainly a swordstick, because it rattled when it hit the pavement, and it did so now as he primly picked his way through the old targets and straw debris.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keeping the men up to scratch, I see,” he said. “Very well done. Is your captain here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe not,” said Vimes, letting Coates go, “sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah? Well, perhaps you will give him this, Sergeant Keel.” Swing gave him a faint smile. “You had a successfulnight…I am given to understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We had a few visitors,” said Vimes, “sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes. Misplaced zeal. It does not payto…underestimate you, sergeant. You are a man of resource. Alas, the other Houses were not so—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—resourceful?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Yes. I am afraid, sergeant, that some of my keener men feel you are anobstacle…to our very needful work. I, onthecontrary…believe that you are a man of iron adherence to the law and, while this hasledto…elements of friction because of your lack of full understanding of the exigencies of the situation, I know that you are a man after my own heart.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes considered the anatomical choices.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That would be broadly correct, sir,” he said, “although I would not aspire that high.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Capital. I lookforwardto…our future co-operation, sergeant. Your new captain willundoubtedly…inform you of other matters, as he sees fit. Good day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing swivelled, and walked his jerky walk back to the gate. His men turned to follow him but one of them, who was wearing a plaster cast on one arm, made a gesture.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Morning, Henry,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He examined the letter. It was quite thick, and had a big embossed seal. But Vimes had spent too much time in the company of bad men, and knew exactly what to do with a sealed envelope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He also knew how to listen. New captain. So…it was starting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The men were watching him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They calling in more, hnah, soldiers, sarge?” said Snouty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect so,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They gave Captain Tilden the push, didn't they…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He was a <em class="calibre8">good captain</em>!” Snouty protested.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” Vimes said. No, he thought. He wasn't. He was a decent man and he did his best, that's all. He's well out of it now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're we gonna do now, sarge?” said Lance-Constable Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll patrol,” said Vimes. “Close in. Just these few streets.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What good'll that do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“More good than if we didn't, lad. Didn't you take the oath when you joined up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What oath, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He didn't, Vimes remembered. A lot of them hadn't. You just got your uniform and your bell and you were a member of the Night Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few years ago Vimes wouldn't have bothered about the oath either. The words were out of date and the shilling on a string was a joke. But you needed something more than the wages, even in the Night Watch. You needed something else to tell you that it wasn't just a job.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Snouty, nip up to the captain's office and get the Shilling, will you?” said Vimes. “Let's get this lot sworn in. And where's Sergeant Knock?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pushed off, sarge,” said Wiglet. “Dunno if it helps, but he said ‘to hell with him’ when he went out the door.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes counted heads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It'd be said, later on, that all the Watch House stayed on. They hadn't, of course. Some had slipped away, some hadn't come back on duty at all. But it was true about Keel and the Line.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, lads,” he said, “it's like this. We know what's been going on. I don't know about you, but I don't like it. Once you get troops on the streets, it's only a matter of time before it goes bad. Some kid throws a stone, next minute there's houses on fire and people getting killed. What we're going to do is keep the peace. That's our job. We're not going to be heroes, we're just going to be…normal. Now,” he shifted position, “it might just be that someone will say we're doing something wrong. So I'm not going to order you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He drew his sword and scratched a line across the mud and stones.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you step over the line, then you're in,” he said. “If you don't, then that's fine. You didn't sign up for this and I doubt that there'll be any medals, whatever happens. I'll just ask you to go, and the best of luck to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was almost depressing how quickly Lance-Constable Vimes crossed the line. Fred Colon came next, and Waddy, and Billy Wiglet. And Spatchcock, Culweather and Moist and Leggy Gaskin and Horace Nancyball and…Curry, wasn't it?…and Evans and Pounce…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A dozen crossed the line, the last few with the reluctance caused by a battle between peer pressure and a healthy regard for their skin. A few others, more than Vimes had hoped, evaporated at the back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That left Ned Coates. He crossed his arms. “You're all bloody mad,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We could use you, Ned,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want to die,” said Ned, “and I don't intend to. This is stupid. There's barely a dozen of you. What can you do? All that stuff about ‘keeping the peace’—it's rubbish, lads. Coppers do what they're told by the men in charge. It's always like that. What'll you do when the new captain comes in, eh? And who're you doing this for? The people? They attacked the other Houses, and what's the Night Watch ever done to hurt them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There you are, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean the Watch did nothing, and that's what hurt them,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What could you do, then? Arrest Winder?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt he was building a bridge of matchsticks over a yawning abyss, and now he could feel the chilly winds below him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd arrested Vetinari, back in the future. Admittedly the man had walked free, after what passed for the due process of law, but the City Watch had bee—was going to be big enough and strong enough and well-connected enough to actually arrest <em class="calibre8">the ruler of the city</em>. How had they ever got to that stage? How had he even <em class="calibre8">dreamed</em> that a bunch of coppers could slam the cell door on the boss?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, perhaps it had started here. Lance-Constable Vimes was watching him intently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course we can't,” he said, “but we ought to be able to. Maybe one day we will. If we can't then the law isn't the law, it's just a way of keeping people down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like you've woken up and smelled the cacky,” said Coates, “because that's exactly what you're in. Sorry, lads, but you're going to <em class="calibre8">die</em>. That's what'll happen if you tangle with real soldiers. Hear about Dolly Sisters last night? Three dead and they weren't even trying.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, Ned, no one's going to have a go at us if we're just patrolling,” mumbled Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Patrolling for <em class="calibre8">what</em>?” said Coates. “To keep the peace? What'll you do when there's no peace left to keep? Well, I'm not going to stand around and see you get killed. I'm off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and strode out of the yard and into the Watch House. You bloody fool, you're right, Vimes thought. I just wish you weren't so right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Still with us, lads?” he said, to the group caught behind the line.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, sarge!” said Lance-Constable Vimes. The rest of the volunteers seemed slightly less certain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Are</em> we gonna get killed?” said Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who said it's going to come to a fight?” said Vimes, watching Coates's retreating back. “Wait a moment, I want a word with Ned—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got the Shilling, sarge,” Snouty announced, advancing across the yard. “And the captain wants a word with you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell him I'll be up in just a few—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the new captain,” said Snouty quickly. “He's here already, hnah. Keen. <em class="calibre8">Milit'ry</em>. Not the patient type, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I used to have Carrot and Detritus and Angua and Cheery for this, Vimes thought bitterly. I'd say you do this, and <em class="calibre8">you</em> do that, and all I had to do was fret and deal with the soddin' politics…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get Fred to swear the men in,” he said. “And tell the officer I'll be with him shortly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ran through the Watch House and out of the front door. There were a lot of people in the street, more than usual. It wasn't a mob as such, but it was Ankh-Morpork's famous ur-mob, the state you got just before a real mob happened. It spread across the city like web and spider and, when some triggering event happened, twanged its urgent message through the streets and thickened and tightened around the spot. The Dolly Sisters Massacre had got around and the numbers had grown in the telling. Vimes could sense the tension in the web. It was just waiting for some idiot to do the wrong thing, and Nature is bountiful where idiots are concerned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Coates!” he yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To his surprise, the man stopped and turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know you're with the revolutionaries.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're just guessing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you had the password in your notebook,” said Vimes. “The same one Dibbler was passing out in pies. You must <em class="calibre8">know</em> I was able to get into the lockers. Look, do you think you and Dibbler'd still be walking around if I was a spy for Swing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sure. You're not after us, we can be mopped up later. Swing wants the leaders.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood back. “Okay. Why haven't you told the lads?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Things are moving, that's why. It's all starting,” said Ned. “Who you are doesn't matter any more. But you're going to get the lads killed. They'd have been on <em class="calibre8">our</em> side, if it wasn't for you. I was working on 'em. You know Spatchcock always drops his sword on his foot and Nancyball wets himself when he's threatened and Vimesy is simple, and now you're going to stick 'em all right in the middle and they're gonna <em class="calibre8">die</em>. And all for no reason!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why haven't you told them?” Vimes repeated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Maybe you've got friends in high places,” Ned snarled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced up at the rooftops.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have we finished?” said Ned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Give me your badge,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're quitting. Fair enough. Give me your badge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Coates recoiled as if he'd been stung. “Blow that!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then leave the city,” said Vimes. “It'd be for your own good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that a threat?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not from me. But here's some advice, boy. Don't put your trust in revolutions. They always come around again. That's why they're called revolutions. People die, and nothing changes. I'll see you later.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned his back and hurried away, so that the man wouldn't see his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Okay. Now it was time. It had to be now, or he'd burst like Mr Salciferous. He had wanted to do this, hadn't dared try it, because those monks could probably do a man a lot of no good if he crossed them, but it had all gone too far now…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A sense of duty told him there was an officer waiting to see him. He overruled it. It was not in possession of all the facts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached the entrance to the Watch House, and stopped. He shut his eyes. If anyone had bothered to look at him, they'd have seen a man apparently trying to grind two cigarette stubs into the road, one with each foot. Thank you, Rosie, for those cardboard soles. He smiled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He thought with the brains in his feet. And as young Sam had noticed, the feet had a memory of their own…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rounded cathead cobbles, the usual kind. They hadn't been well set in this part of the city and moved very slightly underfoot…then twice before getting to the Watch House his feet had felt larger cobbles, narrow bands of them, where the road surface had been replaced after drains had been laid. And before that, there'd been a similar band but of soft brick rubble, so crushed by cartwheels that it was practically a gully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few dozen steps earlier they'd twirled him round a couple of times, but the last surface before that had been…mud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, who had been walking with his eyes shut, bumped into a cart.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mud, he thought, getting up and ignoring the strange looks of passers-by. That meant an alley. Let's see…ah, yes, over there…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It took twenty minutes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People turned as he walked through the streets, closing his eyes when he dared so that his feet could see better. Sometimes he did look around, though, and there it was again, the thunderstorm sensation of tensions building up, waiting for the first little thing. People were uneasy—the <em class="calibre8">herd</em> was restless—and they didn't quite know why. Everyone he looked at returned his gaze blankly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stepped onwards. Rough flagstones between two stretches of the ancient cobbles they called trollheads…the only place where you got that in this part of the city was here, where Pewter Street crossed Elm, and before that it had been…yeah, big stones, some of the most ancient in the city, rutted by hundreds and hundreds of years of iron-bound cartwheels, that was a road that had been right behind a city wall…yes; he crossed the Pitts, still on Elm, and then lost his thread. A metal grating on the pavement gave it back to him. Cellar grating. <em class="calibre8">Cool</em> cellar. Coat of arms on it, worn down. Buttermarket. Yeah. Go, feet!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The monks had turned him again here but…long bricks, hard-fired in the kiln, and a stretch of quite modern flagstones, well dressed and fitted. It could trick you if you didn't know you were in…yeah, Masons Road, and there <em class="calibre8">were</em> masons here and they looked after the surface. Now find an alley, mud but with a lot of gravel in it, because the stonemasons dumped their waste here but this one has occasional hummocks across it, where pipes have been laid. Yeah. Now find square-head cobbles…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He opened his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Yeah.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Away on his left, on Clay Lane, was a block of three buildings. A temple sandwiched between two cheapjack corner shops. It was…just a temple, slightly foreign-looking, but weren't they all? It looked High Hublandish, where everyone lived on yaks or something.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The temple doors were locked. He rattled the handle impotently, and then hammered on the woodwork with his sword. It had no effect. He didn't even leave a mark on the wood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the door of the shonky shop next door was open. It was a familiar place. Once upon a time, it was his tailor and bootmaker. And, like a pawn shop, a shonky shop was always open. Vimes stepped inside, and was immediately enveloped in dusty darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a cave of cloth. Racks of old suits hung from the ceiling. Ancient shelves bent under piles of shirts and vests and socks. Here and there old boxes loomed in the gloom and caught his knees. Piles of derelict boots slipped and slid under his feet. And there was the smell. If poverty had a smell, this was it. If humbled pride had a smell, this was it. And there was a touch of disinfectant as well.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Within a few feet of the door, Vimes was already lost. He turned and shoved his way through grey aisle after grey aisle of suffocating cloth and wondered if anyone had ever died in here and how anyone could ever find out. He pulled aside a hanger containing a greasy, threadbare suit—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no one there, until his gaze fell slightly and met that of a small, glossy little man, totally bald, very small and thin, and wearing some vague clothing that presumably even a shonky shop hadn't been able to unload on a customer. Who was he? who was he?…surprisingly, the name seemed quite fresh in the memory…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, er, yeah…Mr Shine—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Soon Shine Sun,” said Mr Soon. He grabbed the suit Vimes was still holding. “Good eye, good eye, lovely cloth, lovely cloth, owned by priest, very good, fifty pence to you, shame to sell it, times are hard.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hastily put the suit back on the rack and pulled out his badge. Soon glared at it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I pay already other copper,” he said. “One dollar, one month, no trouble. Already I pay other copper.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pay?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">"Two-stripe copper already I pay. One dollar, one month, no trouble!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Quirke,” muttered Vimes. “You don't have to pay coppers, Mr Soon. We're here for your protection.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Despite his barely basic grasp of the language, Mr Soon's expression suggested very clearly that the three-stripe, one-crown copper in front of him had dropped in from the planet Idiot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, I haven't got time for this,” said Vimes. “Where's the back door? This is Watch business!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I pay! I <em class="calibre8">pay</em> protection! One month, no trouble!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes grunted and set off along another narrow, cloth-lined tunnel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A glint of glass caught his eye, and he sidled crabwise up a choked aisle until he found a counter. It was piled with more hopeless merchandise, but there was a bead-curtained doorway behind it. He half clambered, half swam over the piles and scrambled into the tiny room beyond.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Soon pushed his way to an ancient tailor's dummy; it was so scratched, chipped and battered it looked like something dug up from the volcanic ash of an ancient city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pulled on an arm, and the eyes lit up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Number Three here,” he said, into its ear. “He's just gone through. And boy, is he angry…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The back door was locked but yielded under the weight of Vimes's body. He staggered into the yard, looked up at the wall separating this greasy space from the temple's garden, jumped, scrabbled his boots on the brickwork and dragged himself on to the top, feeling a couple of bricks crumble away underneath him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He landed on his back, and looked up at a thin, robed figure sitting on a stone seat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cup of tea, commander?” said Sweeper cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want any damn tea!” shouted Vimes, struggling to his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper dropped a lump of rancid yak butter in the tea bowl beside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What <em class="calibre8">do</em> you want, then, Mister Vimes with the very helpful feet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't deal with this! You know what I mean!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, some tea really would calm you down,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't tell me to be calm! When are you going to get me home?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure stepped out of the temple. He was a taller, heavier man than Sweeper, white-haired and with the look of a good-natured bank manager about him. He held out a cup.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated a moment, and then took the cup and poured the tea out on to the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't trust you,” he said. “There could be <em class="calibre8">anything</em> in this.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't imagine what we could put in tea that would make it any worse than the way you normally drink it,” said Sweeper calmly. “Sit <em class="calibre8">down</em>, your grace. Please?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sagged on to the seat. The rage that had been driving him sank a little, too, but he could feel it bubbling. Automatically, he pulled out a half-smoked cigar and put it in his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sweeper said you'd find us, some way or other,” said the other monk, and sighed. “So much for secrecy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why should you worry?” said Vimes, lighting the stub. “You can just play around with time and it won't have happened, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't intend to do that,” said the other monk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What could I do, anyway? Go around telling everyone that those loony monks you see in the streets are some kind of time shifters? I'd get locked up! Who are you, anyway?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is Qu,” said Sweeper, nodding at the other monk. “When the time comes, he'll get you back. But not yet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. The anger had drained, leaving only a hopeless, empty feeling. He stared blankly at the strange rockery that occupied most of the garden. It looked oddly familiar. He blinked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've been talking to people today who are going to <em class="calibre8">die</em>,” he said. “How do you think that makes me feel? Do you know what that feels like?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The monks gave him a puzzled look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…yes,” said Qu.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We do,” said Sweeper. “Everyone we talk to is going to die. Everyone you talk to is going to die. Everyone dies.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've been changing things,” said Vimes, and added defensively: “Well, why shouldn't I? Carcer is! I have no idea how things are going to turn out! I mean, doesn't it change history even if you just tread on an ant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For the ant, certainly,” said Qu.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sweeper waved a hand. “I told you, Mister Vimes. History finds a way. It's like a shipwreck. You're swimming to the shore. The waves will break whatever you do. Is it not written: ‘The big sea does not care which way the little fishes swim’? People die in their due time—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keel didn't! Carcer mugged the poor devil!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His due time in <em class="calibre8">this</em> present, commander,” said Qu. “But he will play his part in the other one, Mister Vimes. Eventually. You'll reach the shore. You must. Otherwise—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—there's no shore,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Vimes. “There's got to be more. I'm not swimming, I'm drowning. It was fun, d'you know? At first? Like a boys' night out? Feeling the street under my boots again? But now…what about Sybil? Are my memories real? What I <em class="calibre8">know</em> is she's a girl living with her dad. <em class="calibre8">Is</em> there somewhere where she's my wife, having my child? I mean, really? Is it all in my mind? Can you <em class="calibre8">prove</em> it? Is it happening? Will it happen? What is <em class="calibre8">real</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The monks were silent. Sweeper glanced at Qu, who shrugged. He glanced rather more meaningfully and, this time, Qu made that dismissive little wave of the hand which is someone signifying “all right, all right, against my better judgement…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Sweeper said: “Ye-es,” very slowly. “Yes, I think we can help, commander. You want to know there's a future waiting. You want to hold it in your hand. You want to feel the weight of it. You want one point to navigate by, one point to steer for. Yes. I think we can help you there…but…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you climb back over that wall and Sergeant Keel plays his part. He sees it through to the end. He gives the orders he feels are right, and <em class="calibre8">they will</em> be the right orders. He holds the line. He does the job.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's not the only one,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Commander Vimes has a job in hand, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't worry, I'm not leaving Carcer behind,” growled Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. We'll be in touch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tossed the stump of his cigar aside, and looked up at the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right,” he said. “I'll see it through. But when the time comes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will be ready,” said Sweeper. “Just so long as you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped. There was another subtle sound, scaly in its way, a sort of silicon slither.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My goodness,” said Qu.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cigar butt still smouldered. But around it the Garden of Inner City Tranquillity was moving, pebble sliding over tiny pebble. A large, water-rounded rock floated gently around, spinning. And then Vimes became aware that the <em class="calibre8">whole</em> garden was spinning, turning on the little wisp of smoke. A spent match sailed past, rolling from stone to stone like a scrap of food passed from ant to ant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it meant to do that?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In theory, yes,” said Sweeper. “I should leave right now, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took one last look at the moving garden, shrugged, and then heaved himself over the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two monks stared. The tide of little stones was gently pushing the stub into the centre.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Astonishing,” said Qu. “He's part of the pattern now. I don't know how you manage it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not doing it,” said Sweeper. “Qu, can we—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No more time shifting,” said Qu. “It's caused enough trouble.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fair enough,” said Sweeper. “Then I'll need to send out search parties. The fences, the bent jewellers, the pawnshops…we'll find it. I understand our friend. The job's not enough. He needs one real thing. And I know what it is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked again at the turning, shifting garden, and felt the fingers of history spreading out and into the world.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36390583" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried not to run back to the Watch House, because too many people were standing around in nervous groups and even a running uniform could be risky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Besides, you didn't run for officers. He was a sergeant. Sergeants walked with a measured tread.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To his mild surprise, the men were still out in the yard. Someone had even hung up the swordsmanship targets, which would certainly be helpful if the watchmen were faced with an enemy who was armless and tied to a pole.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He climbed the stairs. The captain's door was open, and he saw that the new man had repositioned his desk so that he could see out on to the landing and down the stairs. Not a good sign, not a good sign at all. An officer shouldn't see what was going on, he should rely on his sergeants to <em class="calibre8">tell</em> him what was going on. That way things ran smoothly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This man was keen. Oh, dear…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The new captain looked up. Oh, good grief, Vimes thought. It's bloody Rust this time round! And it was indeed the Hon. Ronald Rust, the gods' gift to the enemy, any enemy, and a walking encouragement to desertion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Rust family had produced great soldiers, by the undemanding standards of “Deduct your own casualties from those of the enemy, and if the answer is a positive number, it was a glorious victory” school of applied warfare. But Rust's lack of any kind of military grasp was matched only by his high opinion of the talent he in fact possessed only in negative amounts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It hadn't been Rust last time. He vaguely remembered some other dim captain. All these little changes…what would they add up to?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I bet he's only just been made a captain, thought Vimes. Just think of the lives I could save by accidentally cutting his head off now. Look at those blue eyes, look at that stupid curly moustache. And he's only going to get worse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you Keel?” The voice was a bark.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I sent an order for you to come up here an hour ago, man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. But I've been on duty all night and morning and there's been rather a lot to attend to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect an order to be obeyed promptly, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. So do I, sir. That's why—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Discipline starts at the top, sergeant. The men obey you, you obey me, I obey my superiors.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Glad to hear it, sir.” Rust had the same firm grip of common politeness, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is all that going on in the yard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes steered according to the prevailing wind…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit of morale building, sir. Instilling a bit of esprit de corps.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…and hit a reef. Rust raised his eyebrows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?” he said. “The men's job is to do what they are told, as is yours. A group hug is not part of the arrangement, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit of camaraderie helps the job along, sir. In my experience.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you eyeballing me. Keel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. I am wearing an expression of honest doubt, sir. ‘Eyeballing’ is four steps up, right after ‘looking at you in a funny way’, sir. By standard military custom and practice, sir, sergeants are allowed to go all the way up to an expression of acute—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's that pip over your stripes, man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Means sergeant-at-arms, sir. They were a special kind of copper.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain grunted, and glanced at the papers in front of him. “Lord Winder has received an extraordinary request that you be promoted to lieutenant, sergeant. It has come from Captain Swing of the Particulars. And his lordship listens to Captain Swing. Oh, and he wants you to be transferred to the Particulars. Personally, I think the man is mad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm one hundred per cent behind you there, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do not wish to be a lieutenant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. Too long for Dick and too short for Richard, sir,” said Vimes, focusing on a point a few inches above Rust's head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Neither one thing nor t'other, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, so you'd like to be a <em class="calibre8">captain</em>, eh?” said Rust, grinning evilly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nosir. Don't want to be an officer, sir. Get confused when I see more'n one knife and fork on the table, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You certainly don't look like officer material to <em class="calibre8">me</em>, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nosir. Thank you, sir.” Good old Rust. Good <em class="calibre8">young</em> Rust. The same unthinking rudeness masquerading as blunt speaking, the same stiff-neckedness, the same petty malice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Any sergeant worth his salt would see how to make use of that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wouldn't mind transferring to the Particulars though, sir,” he volunteered. It was a bit of a gamble, but not much. Rust's mind was reliable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect you <em class="calibre8">would</em> like that, Keel,” said Rust. “No doubt you ran rings round that old fool Tilden and don't fancy the idea of a captain with his finger on the pulse, eh? No, you can damn well stay here, understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wonderful, thought Vimes. Sometimes it's like watching a wasp land on a stinging nettle: someone's going to get stung and you don't care.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir,” he said, eye still staring straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you <em class="calibre8">shaved</em> today, man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excused shaving, sir,” Vimes lied. “Doctor's orders. Been sewn up onna face, sir. Could shave one half, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He remained at eye front while Rust grudgingly stared at him. The cut was still pretty livid, and Vimes hadn't dared look under the patch yet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hit yourself in the face with your own bell, did you?” grunted the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's fingers twitched. “Very funny, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now go and get the men fell in, Keel. Look sharp. I shall inspect them in a moment. And tell that idiot with the flat nose to clear the stable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My horse will be arriving shortly. I don't want to see that disgusting screw in there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, turn out Marilyn, sir?” said Vimes, genuinely shocked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was an order. Tell him to jump to it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you want us to <em class="calibre8">do</em> with her, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't care! You are a sergeant, you've had an order. Presumably there are knackermen? People around here must eat <em class="calibre8">something</em>, no doubt?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated for a moment. Then he saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you know what I saw on the way here, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't say, sir,” said Vimes, staring straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People were building <em class="calibre8">barricades</em>, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">know</em> you heard me, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's to be expected, sir. It's happened before. People get jumpy. They hear rumours of mobs and out-of-control soldiers. They try to protect their street—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is a flagrant challenge to government authority! People can't take the law into their own hands!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes. But these things generally run their course—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My gods, man, how did you manage to get promoted?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes knew he should leave it at that. Rust was a fool. But at the moment he was a young fool, which is more easily excused. Maybe it was just possible, if caught early enough, that he could be upgraded to idiot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sometimes it pays to—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Last night every Watch House in the city was mobbed,” said Rust, ignoring him. “Except this one. How do you account for that?” His moustache bristled. Not being attacked was definite proof of Vimes's lack of moral fibre.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was just a case of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apparently a man attempted an assault on you. Where is he now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know, sir. We bandaged him up and took him home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre8">let him go</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. He was—” But Rust was always a man to interrupt an answer with a demand for the answer he was in fact interrupting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir, because at that time I thought it prudent to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Three watchmen were killed last night, did you know that? There were gangs roaming the streets! Well, martial law has been declared! Today we're going to show them a firm hand! Get your men together! Now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saluted, turned about, and walked slowly down the stairs. He wouldn't have run for a big clock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A firm hand. Right. Gangs roaming the streets. Well, we sure as hell never did anything when they were criminal gangs. And when you've got madmen and idiots on either side, and everything hangs in the balance…well, trouble is always easy to find, when you have enough people looking for it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the hardest lessons of young Sam's life had been finding out that the people in charge weren't in charge. It had been finding out that governments were not, on the whole, staffed by people who had a grip, and that plans were what people made instead of thinking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Most of the watchmen were clustered around the stairs. Snouty was quite good at internal communications of the worrying kind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tidy yourselves, lads,” said Vimes. “Captain'll be down in a few minutes. Apparently it's time for a show of strength.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What strength?” said Billy Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Billy, what happens is, the vicious revolutionaries take one look at us and scuttle off back to their holes,” said Vimes. He was immediately sorry he'd said that. Billy hadn't learned irony.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean we just give the uniforms an airing,” he translated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get cheesed,” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not if we stick together,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes. “After all we're heavily armed men going on patrol among civilians who are, by law, unarmed. If we're careful, we shouldn't get <em class="calibre8">too</em> badly hurt.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another bad move. Dark sarcasm ought to be taught in schools, he thought. Besides, armed men <em class="calibre8">could</em> get into trouble if the unarmed civilians were angry enough, especially if there were cobblestones on the streets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard the distant clocks strike three. Tonight, the streets would explode.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">According to the history books it would be one shot that did it, round about sunset. One of the foot regiments would be assembled in Hen and Chickens Field, awaiting orders. And there would be people watching them. Troops always drew an audience: impressionable kids, the inevitable Ankh-Morpork floating street crowd and, of course, the ladies whose affection was extremely negotiable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd shouldn't have been there, people said afterwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But where should they have been? The field was a popular spot. It was the only vaguely green space in that part of the city. People played games there and, of course, there was always the progress of the corpse on the gibbet to inspect. And the men were troops, ordinary foot soldiers, people's sons and husbands, taking a bit of a rest and having a drink.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh, that was right—afterwards, it was said that the troops were drunk. And that they shouldn't have been there. Yep, that was the reason, Vimes reflected. <em class="calibre8">No one</em> should have been there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But they were, and when that captain got an arrow in his stomach and was groaning on the ground, some of the crossbow-men fired in the direction of the shot. That's what the history books said. They fired at the house windows, where people had been watching. Perhaps the shot <em class="calibre8">had</em> come from one of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some arrows fell short, some did not. And there were people who fired back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then, one after another, horrible things would happen. By then it was too late for them not to. The tension would unwind like a huge spring, scything through the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were plotters, there was no doubt about it. Some had been ordinary people who'd had enough. Some were young people with no money who objected to the fact that the world was run by old people who were rich. Some were in it to get girls. And some had been idiots as mad as Swing, with a view of the world just as rigid and unreal, who were on the side of what they called “the people”. Vimes had spent his life on the streets, and had met decent men and fools and people who'd steal a penny from a blind beggar and people who performed silent miracles or desperate crimes every day behind the grubby windows of little houses, but he'd never met The People.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People on the side of The People always ended up disappointed, in any case. They found that The People tended not to be grateful or appreciative or forward-thinking or obedient. The People tended to be small-minded and conservative and not very clever and were even distrustful of cleverness. And so the children of the revolution were faced with the age-old problem: it wasn't that you had the wrong kind of government, which was obvious, but that you had the wrong kind of people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As soon as you saw people as things to be measured, they didn't measure up. What would run through the streets soon enough wouldn't be a revolution or a riot. It'd be people who were frightened and panicking. It was what happened when the machinery of city life faltered, the wheels stopped turning and all the little rules broke down. And when that happened, humans were worse than sheep. Sheep just ran; they didn't try to bite the sheep next to them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">By sunset a uniform would automatically be a target. Then it wouldn't matter where a watchman's sympathies lay. He'd be just another man in armour—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” he said, snapping back to the present.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You all right, sarge?” said Corporal Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm?” said Vimes, as the real world returned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were well away,” said Fred. “Staring at nothing. You ought to have had a proper sleep last night, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's plenty of time to sleep in the grave,” said Vimes, looking at the ranks of the Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I heard that, sarge, but no one wakes you up with a cup of tea. I got 'em lined up, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred had made an effort, Vimes could see. So had the men themselves. He'd never seen them looking quite so…formal. Usually they had a helmet and breastplate apiece. Beyond that, equipment was varied and optional. But today, at least, they looked neat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Shame about the heights. No man could easily inspect a row that included Wiglet at one end and Nancyball at the other. Wiglet was so short that he'd once been accused of navelling a sergeant, being far too short to eyeball anyone, while Nancyball was always the first man on duty to know when it was raining. You had to stand well back to get both of them into vision without eyestrain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, lads,” he managed, and heard Rust coming down the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It must have been the first time the man had seen his new command in full. In the circumstances, he bore up quite well. He merely sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to Vimes and said: “I require something to stand on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked blank. “Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wish to address the men in order to inspire them and stiffen their resolve. They must understand the political background to the current crisis.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, we know all about Lord Winder being a loony, sir,” said Wiglet cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Frost nearly formed on Rust's forehead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes drew himself up. “Squad diiiiismiss!” he shouted, and then leaned towards Rust as the men scuttled away. “A quiet word, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did that man really say—” Rust began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. These are simple men, sir,” said Vimes, thinking quickly. “Best not to disturb them, if you take my meaning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust inserted this into his range of options. Vimes could see him thinking. It was a way out, and it suited his opinion of the Watch in general. It meant that he hadn't been cheeked by a constable, he'd merely dealt with a simpleton.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They know their duty, sir,” Vimes added, for reinforcement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Their duty, sergeant, is to do what they are told.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust stroked his moustache. “There is something in what you say, sergeant. And you trust them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As a matter of fact, sir, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm. We will make a circuit of the surrounding streets in ten minutes. This is a time for action. Reports are disturbing. We must hold the line, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he believes it, thought Vimes. He really does.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36391189" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen marched out into the afternoon sunshine, and did so badly. They were not used to marching. Their normal method of progress was the stroll, which is not a recognized military manoeuvre, or the frantic withdrawal, which is.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In addition, the convection currents of prudent cowardice were operating in the ranks. There was a definite sideways component to each man's progress as he sought to be in the middle. The watchmen had shields, but they were light wicker-work things intended to turn blows and deflect stones; they wouldn't stand up to anything with an edge. The advance, therefore, was by means of a slowly elongating huddle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust didn't notice. He had a gift for not seeing things he did not want to see and not hearing things he did not want to hear. But he could not ignore a barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork wasn't really a city, not when the chips were down. Places like Dolly Sisters and Nap Hill and Seven Sleepers had been villages once, before they were absorbed by the urban sprawl. On some level, they still held themselves separate. As for the rest…well, once you got off the main streets it was all down to neighbourhoods. People didn't move around much. When tension was high, you relied on your mates and your family. Whatever was going down, you tried to make sure wasn't going down your street. It wasn't revolution. It was quite the reverse. It was defending your doorstep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They were building a barricade in Whalebone Lane. It wasn't a particularly good one, being made up mostly of overturned market stalls, a small cart and quite a lot of household furniture, but it was a Symbol.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust's moustache bristled. “Right in our faces,” he snapped. “Absolute defiance of constituted authority, sergeant. Do your duty!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what would that be at this point, sir?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Arrest the ringleaders! And your men will pull the barricade down!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Very well, sir. If you will stand back, I shall seek them out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked up to the domestic clutter, aware of eyes watching him before and behind. When he was a few feet away he cupped his hands. “All right, all right, what's going on here?” he shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware of whispering. And he was ready for what happened next. When the stone flew over the top of the furniture he caught it in both hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I asked a civil question,” he said. “Come on!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more whispering. He distinctly heard “—that's the sergeant from last night—” and some sort of sotto voce argument. Then a voice shouted, “Death to the Fascist Oppressors!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This time the argument was more frantic. He heard someone say “oh, all right”, and then “Death to the Fascist Oppressors, Present Company Excepted! There, is everyone <em class="calibre8">happy</em> now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He knew that voice. “Mr Reginald Shoe, is it?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I regret that I have only one life to lay down for Whalebone Lane!” the voice shouted, from somewhere behind a wardrobe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If only you knew, Vimes thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think that will be necessary,” he said. “Come <em class="calibre8">on</em>, ladies and gentlemen. Is this any way to behave? You can't take…the law…into your own…hands…” His voice faltered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sometimes it takes the brain a little while to catch up with the mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned and looked at the squad, who'd needed no prompting at all to hang back. And then he turned to look at the barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Where, exactly, <em class="calibre8">was</em> the law? Right now?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What did he think he was doing?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Job, of course. The one that's in front of you. He'd always done it. And the law had always been…<em class="calibre8">out there</em>, but somewhere close. He'd always been pretty sure where it was, and it definitely had something to do with the badge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The badge was important. Yes. It was shield-shaped. For protection. He'd thought about that, in the long nights in the darkness. It protected him from the beast, because the beast was waiting in the darkness of his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd killed werewolves with his bare hands. He'd been mad with terror at the time, but the beast had been there inside, giving him strength…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Who knew what evil lurked in the hearts of men? A copper, that's who. After ten years you thought you'd seen it all, but the shadows always dished up more. You saw how close men lived to the beast. You realized that people like Carcer were not mad. They were incredibly sane. They were simply men without a shield. They'd looked at the world and realized that all the rules didn't have to apply to them, not if they didn't want them to. They weren't fooled by all the little stories. They shook hands with the beast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But he, Sam Vimes, had stuck by the badge, except for that time when even that hadn't been enough and he'd stuck by the bottle instead…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He felt as if he'd stuck by the bottle now. The world was spinning. Where was the law? There was the barricade. Who was it protecting from what? The city was run by a madman and his shadowy chums <em class="calibre8">so where was the law</em>?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Coppers liked to say that people shouldn't take the law into their own hands, and they thought they knew what they meant. They were thinking about the normal times, and men who went round to sort out a neighbour with a club because his dog had crapped once too often on their doorstep. But at times like <em class="calibre8">these</em>, who did the law belong to? If it shouldn't be in the hands of people, where the hell <em class="calibre8">should</em> it be? People who knew better? Then you got Winder and his pals, and how good was that?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What was supposed to happen next? Oh yes, he had a badge, but it wasn't <em class="calibre8">his</em>, not really…and he'd got orders, and they were the wrong ones…and he'd got enemies, for all the wrong reasons…and maybe there was <em class="calibre8">no future</em>. It didn't exist any more. There was nothing real, no solid point on which to stand, just Sam Vimes where he had no right to be…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was as if his body, trying to devote as many resources as possible to untangling the spinning thoughts, was drawing those resources from the rest of Vimes. His vision darkened. His knees were weak.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was nothing but bewildered despair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And a lot of explosions.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36391390" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Havelock Vetinari knocked politely on the window of the little office just inside the Assassins' Guild main gate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The duty porter raised the hatch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Signing out, Mr Maroon,” said the Assassin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir,” said Maroon, pushing a big ledger towards him. “And where are we off to today, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“General reconnoitring, Mr Maroon. Just generally looking around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, I said to Mrs Maroon last night, sir, that you are a great one for looking around,” said Maroon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We look and learn, Mr Maroon, we look and learn,” said Vetinari, signing his name in the book and putting the pen back in its holder. “And how is your little boy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you for asking, sir, he's a lot better,” said the porter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Glad to hear it. Oh, I see the Hon. John Bleedwell is out on a commission. To the palace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, now, sir,” said Maroon, grinning and waving a finger. “You know I couldn't tell you that, sir, even if I knew.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course not.” Vetinari glanced at the back wall of the office where, in an old brass rack, were a number of envelopes. The word “Active” was inscribed at the top of the rack.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good afternoon, Mr Maroon.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'afternoon, sir. Good, er, looking around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched the young man walk out into the street. Then Maroon went into the cubbyhole next to the office to put the kettle on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He rather liked young Vetinari, who was quiet and studious and, it had to be said, a generous young man on appropriate occasions. But a bit weird, all the same. Once Maroon had watched him in the foyer, standing still. That was all he was doing. He wasn't making any attempt at concealing himself. After half an hour Maroon had wandered over and said, “Can I help you, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vetinari had said, “Thank you, no, Mr Maroon. I'm just teaching myself to stand still.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To which there wasn't really any sensible comment that could be made. And the young man must have left after a while, because Maroon didn't remember seeing him again that day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard a creak from the office, and poked his head around the door. There was no one there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he made the tea he thought he heard a rustle from next door, and went to check. It was completely empty. Remarkably so, he thought later on. It was almost as if it was even more empty than it would be if there was just, well, no one in it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He went back to his comfy armchair in the cubbyhole, and relaxed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the brass rack, the envelope marked “Bleedwell, J.” slid back slightly.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36391486" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of explosions. The firecrackers bounced all over the street. Tambourines thudded, a horn blared a chord unknown in nature, and a line of monks danced and twirled around the corner, all chanting at the tops of their voices.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, sagging to his knees, was aware of dozens of sandalled feet gyrating past and grubby robes flying. Rust was yelling something at the dancers, who grinned and waved their hands in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something square and silvery landed in the dirt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the monks were gone, dancing into an alleyway, yelling and spinning and banging their gongs…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wretched heathens!” said Rust, striding forward. “Have you been hit, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached down and picked up the silver rectangle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A stone clanged off Rust's breastplate. As he raised his megaphone, a cabbage hit him on the knee.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the thing in his hand. It was a cigar case, slim and slightly curved.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He fumbled it open and read: To Sam With Love From Your Sybil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The world moved. But now Vimes no longer felt like a drifting ship. Now he felt the tug of the anchor, pulling him round to face the rising tide.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A barrage of missiles was coming over the barricade. Throwing things was an old Ankh-Morpork custom, and there was something about Rust that made him a target. With what dignity he could muster, he raised the megaphone again and got as far as “I hereby warn you—” before a stone spun it out of his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well, then,” he said, and marched stiffly back to the squad. “Sergeant Keel, order the men to fire. One round of arrows, over the top of the barricade.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Vimes, standing up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can only assume you've been stunned, sergeant,” said Rust. “Men, prepare to execute that order.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“First man that fires, I will personally cut that man down,” said Vimes. He didn't shout. It was a simple, confident statement of precisely what the future would hold.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust's expression did not change. He looked Vimes up and down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this mutiny, then, sergeant?” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I'm not a soldier, sir. I can't mutiny.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Martial law, sergeant!” snapped Rust. “It is <em class="calibre8">official</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes, as another rain of rocks and old vegetables came down. “Shields up, lads.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust turned to Fred Colon. “Corporal, you will put this man under arrest!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon swallowed. “Me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You, corporal. Now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon's pink face mottled with white as the blood drained from it. “But he—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You won't? Then it seems I must,” said the captain. He drew his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At that Vimes heard the click of a crossbow's safety catch going off, and groaned. He didn't remember <em class="calibre8">this</em> happening.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just put that sword away, sir, please,” said the voice of Lance-Constable Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You will not shoot me, you young idiot. That would be murder,” said the captain calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not where I'm aiming, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Bloody <em class="calibre8">hell</em>, thought Vimes. Maybe the lad <em class="calibre8">was</em> simple. Because one thing Rust wasn't, was a coward. He thought idiot stubbornness was bravery. He wouldn't back down in the face of a dozen armed men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, I think I can see the problem, captain,” Vimes said brightly. “As you were, lance-constable. There's been a slight misunderstanding, sir, but this should sort it out—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a blow he'd remember for a long time. It was sweet. It was textbook. Rust went down like a log.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the light of all his burning bridges, Vimes slipped his hand back into his hip pocket. Thank you, Mrs Goodbody and your range of little equalizers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to the watchmen, who were a tableau of silent horror.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let the record show Sergeant-at-Arms John Keel did that,” he said. “Vimes, what did I tell you about waving weapons around when you're not going to use them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You laid him out, sarge!” Sam squeaked, still staring at the sleeping captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook some life back into his hand. “Let the record show that I took command after the captain's sudden attack of insanity,” he said. “Waddy, Wiglet…drag him back to the House and lock him up, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What we gonna <em class="calibre8">do</em>, sarge?” wailed Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ah…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Keep the peace. That was the thing. People often failed to understand what that meant. You'd go to some life-threatening disturbance like a couple of neighbours scrapping in the street over who owned the hedge between their properties, and they'd both be bursting with aggrieved self-righteousness, both yelling, their wives would either be having a private scrap on the side or would have adjourned to a kitchen for a shared pot of tea and a chat, and they all expected you to <em class="calibre8">sort it out</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And they could never understand that it wasn't your job. Sorting it out was a job for a good surveyor and a couple of lawyers, maybe. <em class="calibre8">Your</em> job was to quell the impulse to bang their stupid fat heads together, to ignore the affronted speeches of dodgy self-justification, to get them to stop shouting and to get them off the street. Once that had been achieved, your job was over. You weren't some walking god, dispensing finely tuned natural justice. Your job was simply to bring back peace.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, if your few strict words didn't work and Mr Smith subsequently clambered over the disputed hedge and stabbed Mr Jones to death with a pair of gardening shears, then you had a different job, sorting out the notorious Hedge-Argument Murder. But at least it was one you were trained to do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People expected all kinds of things from coppers, but there was one thing that sooner or later they all wanted: make this not be happening.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Make this not be happening…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” he said, suddenly noticing a voice that had, in fact, been on the edge of awareness for some time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said, was he insane, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">But when you're falling off the cliff it's too late to wonder if there might have been a better way up the mountain…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He asked you to shoot at people who weren't shooting back,” growled Vimes, striding forward. “That makes him insane, wouldn't you say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They <em class="calibre8">are</em> throwing stones, sarge,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So? Stay out of range. They'll get tired before we do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In fact the barrage of missiles from the barricade had ceased; even in a time of crisis, the people of Ankh-Morpork would stop for a decent piece of street theatre. Vimes walked back towards them, stopping on the way to retrieve Rust's bent megaphone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he approached he cast his eye over faces just visible through the chair legs and junk. There would be Unmentionables somewhere, he knew, helping matters along. With luck they wouldn't have bothered with Whalebone Lane.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was muttering from the defenders. Most of them had a look Vimes recognized, because it was the one he was trying to keep off his own face. It was the look of people whose world had suddenly been swept from under them, and now they were trying to tap-dance on quicksand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tossed away the stupid pompous megaphone. He cupped his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of you know me!” he shouted. “I'm Sergeant Keel, currently in command of the Treacle Mine Road Watch House! And I order you to dismantle this barricade—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a chorus of jeers and one or two badly thrown missiles. Vimes waited, stock still, until they'd died away. Then he raised his hands again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I repeat, I order you to dismantle this barricade.” He took a breath, and went on: “And rebuild it on the other side on the corner with Cable Street! And put up another one at the top of Sheer Street! Properly built! Good grief, you don't just pile stuff up, for gods' sake! A barricade is something you <em class="calibre8">construct</em>! Who's in charge here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were sounds of consternation behind the overturned furniture, but a voice called out, “You?” There was nervous laughter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very funny! Now laugh this one off! No one's interested in us yet! This is a quiet part of town! But when things really go bad you're going to have cavalry on your backs! With sabres! How long would you last? But if you shut off this end of Treacle Mine and the end of Sheer then they're left with alleyways, and they don't like that! It's up to you, of course! We'd like to protect you, but me and my men'll be behind the barricades over <em class="calibre8">here</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned on his heel and marched back to the waiting watchmen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, lads,” he said. “You heard. Pounce and Gaskin, you take the hurry-up wagon up to the bridge and turn it over. Waddy and Nancyball and you too, Fred…go and nick some carts. You grew up round here, so don't tell me you've never done <em class="calibre8">that</em> before. I want a couple blocking the streets down here, and the rest, I want you to run them into the alley mouths until they wedge. You men know the area. Block up all the little back ways.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon rubbed his nose. “We could do that on the river side, sarge, but it's all alleys on the Shades side. Can't block 'em all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wouldn't worry about those,” said Vimes. “Cavalry can't come through there. You know what they call a horse in the Shades?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon grinned. “Yeah, sarge. Lunch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. The rest of you, get all the benches and tables out of the Watch House—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It dawned on him that none of the men had moved. There was a certain…problem in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Billy Wiglet removed his helmet and wiped his forehead. “Er…how far is this going to go, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All the way, Billy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we took the oath, sarge, and now we're disobeying orders and helping rebels. Doesn't seem right, sarge,” said Wiglet, wretchedly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You took an oath to uphold the law and defend the citizens without fear or favour,” said Vimes. “And to protect the innocent. That's all they put in. Maybe they thought those were the important things. Nothing in there about orders, even from me. You're an officer of the law, not a soldier of the government.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One or two of the men looked longingly at the other end of the street, empty and inviting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I won't stop anyone who wants to walk,” said Vimes. They stopped looking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ullo, Mister Keel,” said a sticky voice behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby?” he said, without turning round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ere, how did you detect it was me, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's an amazing talent, kid,” said Vimes, turning, against all wisdom, to look at the urchin. “What's been happening?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Big riot in Sator Square, sarge. And they say people've broke into the Dolly Sisters Watch House and thrown the lieutenant out the window. An' there's lootin' all over the place, they say, an' the Day Watch are out chasin' people^ only most of 'em are hidin' now 'cos—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I get the picture,” sighed Vimes. Carcer had been right. Coppers were always outnumbered, so being a copper only <em class="calibre8">worked</em> when people <em class="calibre8">let it</em> work. If they refocused and realized you were just another standard idiot with a pennyworth of metal for a badge, you could end up a smear on the pavement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He could hear shouting now, a long way off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked around at the hesitant watchmen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On the other hand, gentlemen,” he said, “if you <em class="calibre8">are</em> going to leave, where are you going to go <em class="calibre8">to</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The same thought had clearly occurred to Colon and the others.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get the carts,” he said, hurrying off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I wants a penny,” said Nobby, holding out a grubby hand. To the boy's amazement, Vimes gave him a dollar, saying, “And just keep telling me everything, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tables and benches were already being dragged out of the Watch House and after only a couple of minutes Waddy arrived with a cartload of empty barrels. Barricades were easy in these streets; it was keeping them clear that had always been the problem.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen set to work. This was something they understood. They'd done it when they were kids. And perhaps they thought, hey, this time we're wearing uniforms. We can't be in the wrong.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">While Vimes was struggling to wedge a bench into the growing wall he was aware of people behind him. He worked steadily, however, until someone gave a delicate cough. Then he turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes? Can I help you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a small group of people, and it was clear to Vimes that it was a group pushed together out of shared terror because, by the look of them, they'd have nothing to do with one another if they could possibly avoid it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The spokesman, or at least the one in front, looked almost exactly like the kind of person Vimes had pictured when thinking about the Hedge-Argument Murder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Erm, officer…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, er, are you doing, exactly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keeping the peace, sir. This piece, to be exact.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You said that there's, er, rioting and soldiers on the way…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very likely, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't have to ask him, Rutherford, it's his <em class="calibre8">duty</em> to protect us,” snapped the woman who was standing beside the man with an air of proprietorship. Vimes changed his mind about the man. Yes, he had that furtive look of a timid domestic poisoner about him, the kind of man who'd be appalled at the idea of divorce but would plot womanslaughter every day. And you could see why.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He gave the lady a nice warm smile. She was holding a blue vase. “Can I help you, ma'am?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are you intending to do about us being murdered in our beds?” she demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's not four o'clock yet, ma'am, but if you'll let me know when you want to retire—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was impressed at the way the woman drew herself up. Even Sybil, in full Duchess mode, with the blood of twenty generations of arrogant ancestors behind her, could not have matched her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rutherford, are you going to <em class="calibre8">do</em> something about this man?” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rutherford looked up at Vimes. Vimes was aware that he was villainously unshaven, dishevelled, dirty and probably starting to smell. He decided not to load more troubles on the man's back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you and your lady care to assist with our barricade?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes, thank you very—” Rutherford began, but was outgunned again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of that furniture looks very dirty,” said Mrs Rutherford. “And aren't those <em class="calibre8">beer</em> barrels?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, ma'am, but they're empty ones,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you <em class="calibre8">sure</em>? I refuse to cower behind alcohol! I have never approved of alcohol, and neither has Rutherford!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can assure you, ma'am, that any beer barrel in the presence of my men for any length of time will be empty,” said Vimes. “You may rest assured on that score.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And are your men sober and clean-living?” the woman demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whenever no alternative presents itself, ma'am,” said Vimes. This seemed acceptable. Mrs Rutherford was like Rust in that respect. She listened to the tone of voice, not the words.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think perhaps it would be a good idea, dear, if we made haste to—” Rutherford began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not without Father!” said his wife.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No problem, ma'am,” said Vimes. “Where is he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On our barricade, of course! Which was, let me tell you, a rather better barricade altogether.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Jolly good, ma'am,” said Vimes. “If he'd like to come over here we'll—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Erm, you don't quite understand, sir,” murmured Rutherford. “He is, erm, on the barricade…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the other barricade, and then looked harder. It was just possible to see, near the top of the piled-up furniture, an overstuffed armchair. Further examination suggested that it was occupied by a sleeping figure in carpet slippers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's very attached to his armchair,” sighed Rutherford.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's going to be an <em class="calibre8">heirloom</em>,” said his wife. “Be so kind as to send your young men to collect our furniture, will you? And be careful with it. Put it at the back somewhere where it won't get shot at.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded at Sam and a couple of the other men as Mrs Rutherford picked her way over the debris and headed for the Watch House.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there going to be any fighting?” said Mr Rutherford anxiously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Possibly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not very good at that sort of thing, I'm afraid.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't worry about that, sir.” Vimes propelled the man over the barricade, and turned to the rest of the little group. He'd been aware of eyes boring into him, and now he traced the rays back to source, a young man with black trousers, a frilly shirt and long curly hair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a ruse, isn't it,” said the man. “You'll get us in your power and we'll never be seen again, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stay out then, Reg,” said Vimes. He cupped his hands and turned back to the Whalebone Lane barricade. “Anyone else wants to join us had better get a move on!” he shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't know that's my name!” said Reg Shoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared into the big protruding eyes. The only difference between Reg now and the Reg he'd left back in the future was that Constable Shoe was rather greyer and was held together in places by stitches. Zombiehood would come naturally to Reg. He was born to be dead. He believed so strongly in things that some kind of inner spring kept him going. He'd make a good copper. He didn't make a very good revolutionary. People as meticulously fervent as Reg got real revolutionaries worried. It was the way he stared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're Reg Shoe,” he said. “You live in Whalebone Lane.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha, you've got secret files on me, eh?” said Reg, with terrifying happiness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not really, no. Now if you'd be so good—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I bet you've got a big file on me a mile long,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a whole mile, Reg, no,” said Vimes. “Listen, Reg, we—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I demand to see it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Mr Shoe, we don't have a file on you. We don't have a file on <em class="calibre8">anyone</em>, understand? Half of us can't read without using a finger. Reg, we are not <em class="calibre8">interested</em> in you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe's slightly worrying eyes remained fixed on Vimes's face for a moment, and then his brain rejected the information as contrary to whatever total fantasy was going on inside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's no good you torturing me because I won't reveal any details about my comrades in the other revolutionary cells!” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay. I won't, then. Now perhaps—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's how we work, see? None of the cadres knows about the other ones!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really. Do they know about you?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For a moment, Reg's face clouded. “Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you said you don't know about them,” said Vimes. “So…do they know about you?” He wanted to add: you're a cell of one, Reg. The real revolutionaries are silent men with poker-player eyes and probably don't know or care if you exist. You've got the shirt and the haircut and the sash and you know all the songs, but you're no urban guerrilla. You're an urban dreamer. You turn over rubbish bins and scrawl on walls in the name of The People, who'd clip you round the ear if they found you doing it. But you <em class="calibre8">believe</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, so you're a secret operative,” he said, to get the poor man off the hook.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg brightened. “That's right!” he said. “The people are the sea in which the revolutionary swims!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like swordfishes?” Vimes tried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And you're a flounder, thought Vimes. Ned's a revolutionary. He knows how to fight and he can think, even if he <em class="calibre8">is</em> on the skew. But Reg, you really ought to be indoors…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I can see you're a dangerous individual,” he said. “We'd better have you where we can keep an eye on you. Hey, that's right. You can undermine the enemy from within.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The relieved Reg raised a fist in salute and carried a table to the new barricade with revolutionary speed. There was some hurried conversation behind the old makeshift barricade, already being denuded of Mrs Rutherford's furniture. This was interrupted by the clatter of hoofbeats from the far end of Treacle Mine Road and a sudden burst of instant decisiveness on the part of the remainder of the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They poured towards the new official barricade, with Lance-Constable Vimes bringing up the rear, fairly well hampered by a dining-room chair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mind out for that!” shouted a female voice from somewhere behind him. “It's one of a set!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes put his hand on the young man's shoulder. “Just give me your crossbow, will you?” he said.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36392272" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The horsemen came closer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was not good at horsemen. Something in him resented being addressed by anyone eight feet above the ground. He didn't like the sensation of being looked at by nostrils. He didn't like being talked down to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">By the time they'd reached the barricade he'd clambered around to the front of it and was standing in the middle of the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They slowed down. It was probably the way he didn't move, and held the crossbow in the nonchalant manner of someone who knows how to use it but has decided not to, for the moment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You, there!” said a trooper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you in charge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Can I help you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where are your men?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes jerked a thumb towards the growing barricade. On the top of the heap, Mrs Rutherford's father was snoring peacefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But that's a barricade!” said the trooper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a man waving a <em class="calibre8">flag</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned. Surprisingly, it was Reg. Some of the men had brought out the old flag from Tilden's office and stuck it on the barricade, and Reg was the sort to wave any flag going.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably high spirits, sir,” said Vimes. “Don't worry. We're all fine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a damn <em class="calibre8">barricade</em>, man. A rebel barricade!” said the second trooper. Oh boy, thought Vimes. They have shiny, shiny breastplates. And wonderfully fresh pink faces.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not exactly. In fact it's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you stupid, fellow? Don't you know that all barricades are to be torn down by order of the Patrician?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The third horseman, who had been staring at Vimes, urged his horse a little closer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's that pip on your shoulder, officer?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Means I'm Sergeant-at-Arms. Special rank. And who're you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He doesn't have to tell you that!” said the first trooper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes. The man was getting on his nerves. “Well, you're just a trooper and I'm a bleedin' sergeant and if you dare speak to me like that again I'll have you down off that horse and thump you across the ear, understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Even the horse took a step backwards. The trooper opened his mouth to speak, but the third horseman raised a white-gloved hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh dear, thought Vimes, focusing on the sleeve of the red jacket. The man was a captain. Not only that, he was an intelligent one, by the look of him. He hadn't mouthed off until he'd had a chance to assess the situation. You got them sometimes. They could be dangerously bright.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I note, sergeant-at-arms,” said the captain, enunciating the rank with care and without apparent sarcasm, “that the flag over the barricade is the flag of Ankh-Morpork.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the one out of our Watch House,” said Vimes, and added, “sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know that the Patrician has declared that the building of barricades is an act of rebellion?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And?” said the captain patiently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, he would say that, sir, wouldn't he…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The faintest hint of a smile skimmed across the captain's face. “We can't allow lawlessness, sergeant-at-arms. If we all disobeyed the law, where would we be?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's more coppers per person behind that barricade than anywhere else in the city, sir,” said Vimes. “You could say it's the most law-abiding place around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now there was the sound of raised voices from behind the barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">we own all your helmets, we own all your shoes, we own all your generals, Touch us and you'll loooose…Morporkia, Morporkia, Morpooroorooorooooorrroorrr</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rebel songs, sir!” said trooper number one. The captain sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you <em class="calibre8">listen</em>, Hepplewhite, you might note that it is the national anthem sung very badly,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We can't allow rebels to sing <em class="calibre8">that</em>, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saw the captain's expression. It had a lot to say about idiots.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Raising the flag and singing the anthem, Hepplewhite, are, while somewhat suspicious, not in themselves acts of treason,” said the captain. “And we are urgently required elsewhere.” He saluted Vimes, who found himself returning the salute. “We shall leave you, sergeant-at-arms. I trust your day will be full of interest. I fact, I <em class="calibre8">know</em> it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it's a <em class="calibre8">barricade</em>, sir,” the trooper insisted, glaring at Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's just a pile of furniture, man. People have been spring cleaning, I expect. You'll never be an officer if you can't see straight. Follow me, if you please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a last nod to Vimes, the captain led his men away at a trot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes leaned against the barricade, put the crossbow on the ground, and fished out the cigar case. He fumbled in his pocket, pulled out the battered carton of little cigars and, with some delicacy, slotted them into place.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hmm. To the left was Cable Street. In front, Treacle Mine Road stretched all the way to Easy Street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now, if a man could get barricades all the way up to Easy Street, there'd be quite a slice of the Lower Rimside behind it, which'd be a lot easier to protect…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">We'll do it</em>. After all, we did it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, that'd mean having the Unmentionables' headquarters in here with us. That's like pitching your tent over a nest of vipers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">We'll handle that</em>. We handled it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of elderly people pushing a cart full of miscellaneous belongings approached the barricade. They gave Vimes a look of mute pleading. He nodded towards it and they scuttled through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All we need now is—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?” Fred Colon was leaning over the top of the heap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked more out of breath than usual.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Fred?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's lots of people coming across the Ron's bridge. There's things happening everywhere, they say. Shall we let 'em in?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any soldiers?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't reckon so, sarge. It's mostly old people and kids. And my granny.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Trustworthy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not when she's had a few pints.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let them in, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Fred?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of 'em is watchmen. A few of the lads from Dimwell and a lot from Kings Way. I know most of 'em, and those I don't are known to the ones I do, if you catch my meanin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How many?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“About twenty. One of 'em's Dai Dickins, sergeant at Dimwell. He says they were told they'd got to shoot people and most of 'em deserted on the spot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quit, Fred,” said Vimes. “We don't desert. We're civilians. Now, I want young Vimes and you and Waddy and maybe half a dozen others out here fully kitted up in two minutes, understand? And tell Wiglet to organize squads ready to move the barricades forward at my signal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Move them, sarge? I thought barricades stood still!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And tell Snouty he's got two minutes to find me a bottle of brandy,” said Vimes, ignoring this. “A big one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are we taking the law into our own hands again, sarge?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the entrance to Cable Street, and was aware of the weight of the cigar case in his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Fred,” he said. “Only this time we're going to squeeze.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36392601" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two guards on the Unmentionables' headquarters watched with interest as the small contingent of watchmen marched up the street and came to a halt in front of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oo, look, it's the army,” said one of them. “What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> want?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing, sir,” said Corporal Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you can push off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't do that, sir. I'm under orders.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards stepped forward. Fred Colon was sweating, and they liked to see things like that. It was a dull job, and most of the Unmentionables were out on more interesting assignments. They entirely failed to hear the soft tread behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Orders to do <em class="calibre8">what</em>, mister,” said one of them, looming over Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a sigh and a soft thud behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Be a decoy?” quavered Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The remaining guard turned, and met a Mrs Goodbody No. 5 “Negotiator” coming the other way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As the man slipped to the ground Vimes winced and massaged his knuckles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Important lesson, lads,” he said. “It hurts, no matter what you do. You two, drag these into the shadows to sleep it off. Vimes and Nancyball, you come with me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The key to winning, as always, was looking as if you had every right, nay, <em class="calibre8">duty</em> to be where you were. It helped if you could also suggest in every line of your body that no one else had any rights to be doing anything, anywhere, whatsoever. It came easily to an old copper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes led the way into the building. There were a couple of guards inside, heavily armed, behind a stone barrier that made them ideally placed to ambush any unwise intruders. They put their hands on the hilts of their swords when they saw Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happening out there?” said one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, people are getting restless,” said Vimes. “Getting very bad across the river, they say. That's why we've come for the prisoners in the cells.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah? On whose authority?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes swung his crossbow up. “Mr Burleigh and Mr Stronginthearm,” he said, and grinned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two guards exchanged glances. “Who the hell are they?” said one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a moment of silence followed by Vimes saying, out of the corner of his mouth: “Lance-Constable Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What make are these crossbows?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…Hines Brothers, sir. They're Mark Threes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not Burleigh and Stronginthearm?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never heard of them, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Damn. Five years too early, thought Vimes. And it was such a good line, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let me put it another way,” he said to the guards. “Give me any trouble and I will shoot you in the head.” That <em class="calibre8">wasn't</em> a good line, but it did have a certain urgency, and the bonus that it was simple enough even for an Unmentionable to understand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've only got one arrow,” said a guard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a click from beside Vimes. Sam had raised his bow, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's two now, and since my lad here is in training he might hit you <em class="calibre8">anywhere</em>,” said Vimes. “Drop your swords on the floor! Get out of the door! Run away! Do it now! Don't come back!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a moment of hesitation, just a moment, and then the men ran for it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred will watch our backs,” said Vimes. “Come on…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All the Watch Houses were pretty much the same. Stone steps led down to the cellars. Vimes hurried down them, swung open a heavy door—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And stopped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cells never smelled that good at the best of times. At the best of times, even at Treacle Mine Road, hygiene consisted of a bucket per cell and as much slopping-out as Snouty felt inclined to do. But, at the worst of times, the cells below Treacle Mine Road never smelled of blood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">The beast stirred</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In this room there was a big wooden chair. In this room there was, by the chair, a rack. The chair was bolted to the floor. It had wide leather straps. The rack held clubs and hammers. In this room, that was all the furnishings.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The floor was dark and sticky. Down the length of it, a gully ran to a drain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Boards had been nailed over the tiny window at street level. This wasn't a place where light was welcomed. And all the walls, and even the ceiling, were padded heavily with sacks stuffed with straw. Sacks had even been nailed to the door. This was a very <em class="calibre8">thorough</em> cell. Not even sound was meant to escape.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of torches did nothing at all for the darkness except make it dirty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind him, Vimes heard Nancyball throw up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In a strange kind of dream, he walked across the floor and bent down to pick up something that gleamed in the torchlight. It was a tooth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood up again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A closed wooden door led off on one side of the cellar; on the other, a wider tunnel almost certainly led to the cells. Vimes took a torch out of its holder, handed it to Sam and pointed along the tunnel—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were footsteps accompanied by a jingle of keys heading towards the door, and a light growing brighter underneath it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">The beast tensed…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dragged the largest club out of the rack and stepped swiftly to the wall beside the door. Someone was coming, someone who knew about this room, someone who called themselves a copper…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Getting a firm two-handed grip, Vimes raised the club—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And looked across the stinking room, and saw young Sam watching him, young Sam with his bright shiny badge and face full of…strangeness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes lowered the club, leaned it delicately against the wall, and pulled the leather cosh from his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Shackled, not quite understanding, the beast was dragged back into the night…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">A man stepped through the door, whistling under his breath, took a few steps into the room, saw young Sam, opened his mouth and then fell fast asleep. He was a big man, and hit the cobbles heavily. He had a leather hood over his head, and was naked to the waist. A big ring of keys hung from his belt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes darted into the corridor behind the door, ran around a corner, burst into a small, brightly lit room, and grabbed a man he found in there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This one was a lot smaller, and suppressed a scream as Vimes dragged him up out of his chair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">And what does daddy do at work all day, mister?</em>” Vimes roared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The little man was suddenly clairvoyant. One look at Vimes's eyes told him how short his future might be.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm just a clerk! A clerk! I just write things down!” he protested. He held up a pen by way of desperate demonstration.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the desk. There were compasses there, and other geometer's tools, symbols of Swing's insane sanity. There were books, and folders stuffed with paperwork. And there was a yard-long steel ruler. He grabbed it in his spare hand and slammed it on the desktop. The heavy steel made a satisfying noise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And?” he said, his face a few inches from the struggling man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I measure people! It's all in the captain's book! I just measure people! I don't do anything wrong! I'm not a bad man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Again the ruler slammed into the desk. But this time Vimes had twisted it, and the steel edge chopped into the wood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Want me to cut you down to size, mister?” The little man's eyes rolled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there another way out of here?” Vimes slapped the rule down on the desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The flicker of eyes was enough. Vimes saw a doorway in the wall, almost lost in the wooden panelling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Where does it come out?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now Vimes was nose to nose with the man who, in police parlance, was helping him with his inquiries.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're all alone here,” he said. “You have no friends here. You sat and took notes for a torturer, a bloody torturer! And I see a desk, and it's got a desk drawer, and if you ever, <em class="calibre8">ever</em> want to hold a pen again you'll tell me everything I want to know—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Warehouse!” the man gasped. “Next door!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir. Thank you, sir. You've been very helpful,” said Vimes, lowering the limp body to the floor. “Now, sir, I'm just handcuffing you to this desk for a moment, sir, for your protection.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who…who from?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me. I'll kill you if you try to run away, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hurried back to the main chamber. The torturer was still out cold. Vimes hauled him up into the chair, with great effort, and pulled off his hood, and recognized the face. The face, yes, but not the person. That is, it was the kind of face you saw a lot of in Ankh-Morpork: big, bruised, and belonging to someone who'd never quite learned that hitting people long after they'd lost consciousness was a wicked thing to do. He wondered if the man actually liked beating people to death. They often didn't think about it. It was just a job.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, he wasn't about to ask him. He buckled him in, with every strap, even the one that went across the forehead, pulling the last one tight just as the man came round. The mouth opened, and Vimes stuffed the hood into it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he took the key ring and locked the main door. That should ensure a little extra privacy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He met young Sam coming the other way as he headed for the cells. The boy's face was white in the gloom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Found anyone?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, sarge…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, sarge…sarge…” Tears were running down the lance-constable's face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached out and steadied himself. Sam felt as though there were no bones left in his body. He was trembling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a <em class="calibre8">woman</em> in the last cell, and she…sarge…oh, sarge—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Try taking deep breaths,” said Vimes. “Not that this air is fit to breathe.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And there's a room right at the end, sarge…oh, sarge… Nancyball fainted again, sarge…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You didn't,” said Vimes, patting him gently on the back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But there's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's rescue what we can, shall we, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we were on the hurry-up wagon, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” said Vimes, and then it dawned. Oh, yes…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we didn't hand anyone over, lad,” he said. “Remember?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I've been on it before, sarge! All the lads have! We just handed people over and went back to the Watch House for cocoa, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you'd had orders…” said Vimes, for what good that did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We didn't <em class="calibre8">know</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Not exactly, thought Vimes. We didn't <em class="calibre8">ask</em>. We just shut our minds to it. People went in through that front door and some of the poor devils came out through the secret door, not always in one box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They hadn't measured up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nor did we.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard a low, visceral sound from the boy. Sam had spotted the torturer in the chair. He shook himself away from Vimes, ran over to the rack, and snatched up a club.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was ready. He grabbed the boy, swung him round, and twisted the thing out of his hand before murder was done.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! That's not the way! This is not the time! Hold it back! Tame it! Don't waste it! Send it back! It'll come when you call!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know he did those things!” shouted Sam, kicking at his legs. “You said we had to take the law into our own hands!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ah, thought Vimes. This is <em class="calibre8">just</em> the time for a long debate about the theory and practice of justice. Here comes the shortened version.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre8">don't</em> bash a man's brains out when he's tied to a chair!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">He</em> did!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you don't. That's because you're not him!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stand to attention, lance-constable!” shouted Vimes, and the straw-covered ceiling drank and deadened the sound. Sam blinked through reddened eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, sarge, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to snivel all day? <em class="calibre8">Forget</em> about this one. Let's get the living out, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hard to tell with—” Sam began, wiping his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do it! Follow me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He knew what was going to be in the dark arches of the cell tunnels, but that didn't make it any better. Some people could walk, or maybe hop. One or two had just been beaten up, but not so badly that they couldn't hear what was going on just out of sight, and dwell on it. They cringed when the gates were opened, and whimpered as he touched them. No wonder Swing got his confessions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And some were dead. Others were…well, if they weren't dead, if they'd just gone somewhere in their heads, it was as sure as hell that there was nothing for them to come back to. The chair had broken them again and again. They were beyond the help of any man.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Just in case, and without any feeling of guilt, Vimes removed his knife, and…gave what help he could. There was not a twitch, not a sigh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood up, black and red stormclouds in his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You could almost understand a thug, simple as a fist, being paid decent money for doing something he didn't mind doing. But Swing had <em class="calibre8">brains</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Who <em class="calibre8">really</em> knew what evil lurked in the heart of men?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">@ME.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Who knew what sane men were capable of?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">STILL ME, I'M AFRAID.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at the door of the last room. No, he wasn't going in there again. No wonder it stank here.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">YOU CAN'T HEAR ME, CAN YOU? OH I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT, said Death, and waited.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went to help young Sam bring Nancyball round. Then they half carried, half walked the prisoners out along the passage up into the warehouse. They laid them down, and went back and dragged out the clerk, whose name was Trebilcock. Vimes explained to him the advantages of turning King's Evidence. They were not <em class="calibre8">major</em> advantages, except when they were compared with the huge disadvantages that would follow swiftly if he refused to do so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vimes stepped out into the early evening. Colon and the squad were still waiting; the whole business had taken only twenty minutes or so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The corporal saluted, and then his nose wrinkled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, we stink,” said Vimes. He unbuckled his belt and pulled off his breastplate and chain-mail undershirt. The filth of the place had crawled everywhere. “Okay,” he said, when he no longer felt that he was standing in a sewer, “I want a couple of men at the entrance over there in the warehouse, a couple round the back with truncheons, and the rest ready out here. Just like we talked about, okay? Wallop them first, arrest them later.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.” Colon nodded. Men set off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now give me that brandy,” Vimes added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He unwrapped his neckerchief, soaked it in spirit, and tied it around the neck of the bottle. He heard the angry murmur from the squad. They'd just seen Sam and Nancyball bringing out some of the prisoners.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was worse,” said Vimes, “believe me. Top middle window, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Right</em>, sarge,” said Fred Colon, dragging his eyes away from the walking wounded. He raised his crossbow, and neatly took out two window panes and a glazing bar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes located his silver cigar case, removed a cigar, lit it, applied the match to the brandy-soaked rag, waited for it to catch, and hurled the bottle through the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a tinkle, a whoomph of exploding spirit, and a flame that rapidly grew.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nice one, sarge,” said Fred. “Er, I don't know if this is the right time, sarge, but we brought an extra bottle while we were about it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really, Fred? And what d'you say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon glanced at the prisoners again. “I say we use it,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It went through one of the ground-floor windows. Smoke was already curling out from under the eaves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We haven't seen anyone go in or out apart from those guards,” said Fred, as they watched it. “I don't reckon there's many left in there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just so long as we destroy the nest,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The front door opened slightly, increasing the draught to the fires. Someone was checking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They'll wait until the last minute and come out fighting, Fred,” Vimes warned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good, sarge. It's getting darker,” said Colon grimly. He pulled out his truncheon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes walked around to the back of the building, nodded at the watchmen waiting there, and locked the door with his stolen key ring. It was a narrow door, anyway. Anyone inside would surely go for the big doors at the front, where they could spread out quickly and an ambush wasn't so easy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He checked on the warehouse. But that was an unlikely exit for the same reason. Besides, he'd locked the door to the cellar, hadn't he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Young Sam grinned at him. “That's why you left the torturer tied up, eh, sarge?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Damn! That hadn't occurred to him. He'd been so angry with the clerk he'd forgotten all about the brute in the chair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated. But burning was a horrible death. He reached for his knife, and remembered it was back in its sheath on his sword belt. Smoke was already drifting up the passage into the warehouse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Give me your knife, Sam,” he said. “I'll just go and…check on him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lance-constable handed over the knife with some reluctance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're you going to do, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just get on with your job, lance-constable, and I'll do mine…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes slipped down into the passage. I'll cut one strap, he thought. They're fiddly to undo. And then…well, he'll have a chance, even in the smoke. That's more than anyone else got.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He crept through the office and into the chamber.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One torch was still alight, but the flame was just a nimbus in the yellow haze. The man was trying to rock the heavy chair, but it had been secured firmly to the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some thought had gone into that chair. The straps on the buckles were hard to reach. Even if a prisoner got one hand free, and that hand had not yet felt the professionalism of the torturer, they'd have a job to get out of the chair in a hurry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached down to cut a strap, and heard a key in the lock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stepped swiftly into the darker shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened, letting in the noise of distant shouting and the crackle of burning timber. It sounded as though the Unmentionables were making a run for the clear air of the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Findthee Swing stepped delicately into the room, and locked the door behind him. He stopped when he saw the seated figure, and examined it carefully. He walked to the office doorway and looked inside. He peered into the cells, but by then Vimes had moved soundlessly around a wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard Findthee sigh. There was the familiar sound of moving steel, followed by a small, organic sort of noise, and a cough.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reached down for his sword. But it was up on the road, too, wasn't it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Down here, the song in his head came back louder, with the background clink of metal that was always part of it<em class="calibre8">…see how they rise up, rise up, rise up…</em></div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, as if that'd dislodge the memory. He had to <em class="calibre8">concentrate</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes ran into the room and made a leap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It seemed to him that he stayed in the air a long time. There was the torturer, blood on his shirt. There was Swing, just sliding the blade back into the stick. And Vimes, airborne, armed with just a knife.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I'm going to get out of this, he thought. I know, because I remember this. I remember Keel coming out and saying it was all over.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But that was the real Keel. This is me. <em class="calibre8">It doesn't have to happen the same way</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing jerked aside with surprising speed, trying to tug his blade out again. Vimes hit the sacks on the wall, and had the sense to roll away immediately. The blade slashed down beside him, spilling straw on to the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd expected Swing to be a bad swordsman. That ridiculous stick suggested it. But he was a street swordsman—no finesse, no fancy tricks, just some talent at moving the blade quickly and sticking it where you hoped it wasn't going to go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fire crackled in the corner of the ceiling. Dripping spirit or sheer heat had worked itself through the heavy floorboards. A couple of the sacks began to blossom thick white smoke, which rolled above the men in a spreading cloud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He circled the chair, watching Swing intently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe you are making a gravemistake,” said Swing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes concentrated on avoiding the sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hard times demand hard measures. Every leader knows that…” said Swing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dodged, but continued circling, knife at the ready.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“History needs its butchers as well as its shepherds, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing jabbed, but Vimes had been watching his eyes, and swayed away in time. The man wasn't pleading. He didn't understand what had been done to require it. But he could see Vimes's face. There was no emotion in it at all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You must understand that in times of nationalemergency we cannot be too concerned with the so-called rights of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes darted sideways and along the haze-filled corridor to the office. Swing lurched after him. The blade sliced Vimes on the back of the leg. He sprawled on to the clerk's desk, knife skittering from his fingers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing circled to find a stabbing point. He drew back the sword…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's hand came up holding the steel ruler. The smack of its flat steel knocked the sword right out of the captain's grasp.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled himself upright as though in a dream, following on the curve of the stroke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Send it back into the dark until you need it…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned the ruler as the backstroke began and it whispered through the air edge-first, leaving the hazy smoke rolling and coiling behind it. The tip caught Swing across the neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind Vimes the white smoke tumbled out of the corridor. The ceiling of the bloody chamber was falling in.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But he stayed, watching Swing with the same blank, intent expression. The man had raised his hands to his throat, blood spurting from between his fingers. He rocked, gasping for a breath that couldn't come, and fell backwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tossed the ruler on top of him and limped away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Outside, there was the thunder of moving barricades.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36393504" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing opened his eyes. The world around him was grey, except for the black-clad figure in front of him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sought, as he always did, to learn more about the new person by carefully examining their features.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um, your eyes are…er…your nose is…your chin.” He gave up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">YES, said Death, I'M A BIT OF A TRICKY ONE. THIS WAY MR. SWING.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36393523" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Winder was, thought Vetinari, impressively paranoid. He'd even put a guard on the top of the whisky distillery that overlooked the palace grounds. Two guards, in fact.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of them was clearly visible as you rose over the parapet, but the other was lurking in the shadows by the chimneys.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The late Hon. John Bleedwell had spotted only the first one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari watched impassively as the young man was dragged away. If you were an Assassin, being killed in the pursuit of your craft was all part of the job, albeit the last part. You couldn't complain. And it meant there was only one guard now, the other one taking Bleedwell, who had lived up to his name, downstairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Bleedwell had worn black. Assassins always did. Black was cool and, besides, it was the rules. But only in a dark cellar at midnight was black a sensible colour. Elsewhere, Vetinari preferred dark green, or shades of dark grey. With the right colouring, and the right stance, you vanished. People's eyes would <em class="calibre8">help</em> you vanish. They erased you from their vision, they fitted you into the background.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, he'd be expelled from the Guild if caught wearing such clothing. He'd reasoned that this was much better than being expelled from the land of the upright and breathing. He'd rather not be cool than be cold.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guard, three feet away, lit a cigarette with no consideration for other people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What a genius Lord Winstanleigh Greville-Pipe had been. What an observer. Havelock would love to have met him, or even to have visited his grave, but apparently that was inside a tiger somewhere which, to Greville-Pipe's gratified astonishment, he hadn't spotted until it was too late.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari had done him a private honour, though. He had hunted down and melted the engraver's plates of <em class="calibre8">Some Observations on the Art of Invisibility</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tracked down the other four extant copies, too, but had felt unable to burn them. Instead he'd had the slim volumes bound together inside the cover of <em class="calibre8">Anecdotes of the Great Accountants, Vol</em>. 3. He felt that Lord Winstanleigh Greville-Pipe would rather appreciate that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari lay comfortably on the lead of the roof, patient as a cat, and watched the palace grounds below.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36393589" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes lay face down on a table in the Watch House, wincing occasionally.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Please</em> hold still,” said Dr Lawn. “I've nearly finished. I suppose you'd laugh if I told you to take it easy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ha. Ha. Uh!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's only a flesh wound, but you ought to get some rest.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ha. Ha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've got a busy night ahead of you. So have I, I suspect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We should be okay if we've got the barricades all the way to Easy Street,” said Vimes, and was aware of a telling silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat up on the table that Lawn was using as a bench.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We <em class="calibre8">have</em> got them to Easy Street, haven't we?” he demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The last I heard, yes,” said the doctor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The last you heard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, technically no,” said Lawn. “It's all getting…bigger, John. The <em class="calibre8">actual</em> last I heard was someone saying ‘why stop at Easy Street?’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, good <em class="calibre8">grief</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. I thought so, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dragged his breeches up, fastened his belt and limped out into the road and also into an argument.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was Rosie Palm, and Sandra, and Reg Shoe and half a dozen others sitting around another table, in the middle of the street. As Vimes stepped out into the evening, a plaintive voice said, “You cannot fight for ‘reasonably priced love’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can if you want me and the rest of the girls on board,” said Rosie. “‘Free’ is not a word we wish to see used in these circumstances.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, very well,” said Reg, making a note on a clipboard. “We're all happy with Truth, Justice and Freedom, are we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And better sewers.” This was the voice of Mrs Rutherford. “And something done about the rats.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we should be thinking about higher things, comrade Mrs Rutherford,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am not a comrade, Mr Shoe, and nor is Mr Rutherford,” said Mrs Rutherford. “We've always kept ourselves to ourselves, haven't we, Sidney?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've got a question,” said someone in the crowd of onlookers. “Harry Supple's my name. Got a shoe shop in New Cobblers…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg seized on this as an opportunity to avoid talking to Mrs Rutherford. Revolutionaries should not have to meet someone like Mrs Rutherford on their first day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, comrade Supple?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nor are we boyjoys,” said Mrs Rutherford, not willing to let things go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, bourgeoisie,” said Reg. “Our manifesto refers to bourgeoisie. That's like bore, er, shwah, er, zee.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bourgeoisie, bourgeoisie,” said Mrs Rutherford, turning the word over on her tongue. “That…doesn't sound too bad. What, er, sort of thing do they do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, it says here in article seven of this here list—” Mr Supple ploughed on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—People's Declaration of the Glorious Twenty-fourth of May,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, yeah, right…well, it says we'll seize hold of the means of production, sort of thing, so what I want to know is, how does that work out regarding my shoe shop? I mean, I'm in it anyway, right? It's not like there's room for more'n me and my lad Garbut and maybe one customer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the dark, Vimes smiled. Reg could never see stuff coming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, but after the revolution all property will be held in common by the people…er…that is, it'll belong to you but also to everyone else, you see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Comrade Supple looked puzzled. “But I'll be the one making the shoes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. But everything will <em class="calibre8">belong</em> to The People.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So…who's going to pay for the shoes?” said Mr Supple.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone will pay a reasonable price for their shoes and you won't be guilty of living off the sweat of the common worker,” said Reg, shortly. “Now, if we—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean the cows?” said Supple.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, there's only the cows, and the lads at the tannery, and frankly all they do is stand in a field all day, well, not the tannery boys, obviously, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look,” said Reg. “Everything will belong to the people and everyone will be better off. Do you understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The shoemaker's frown grew deeper. He wasn't certain if he was part of the people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought we just didn't want soldiers down our street and mobs and all that lot,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg had a hunted look. He made a dive for safety. “Well, at least we can agree on Truth, Freedom and Justice, yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a chorus of nods. Everyone wanted those. They didn't cost anything.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A match flared in the dark, and they turned to see Vimes light a cigar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd like Freedom, Truth and Justice, wouldn't you, comrade sergeant?” said Reg encouragingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd like a hard-boiled egg,” said Vimes, shaking the match out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some nervous laughter, but Reg looked offended.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the circumstances, sergeant, I think we should set our sights a little higher—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes, we could,” said Vimes, coming down the steps. He glanced at the sheets of paper in front of Reg. The man cared. He really did. And he was serious. He really was. “But…well, Reg, tomorrow the sun will come up again, and I'm pretty sure that whatever happens we won't have found Freedom, and there won't be a whole lot of Justice, and I'm <em class="calibre8">damn</em> sure we won't have found Truth. But it's just possible that I might get a hard-boiled egg. What's this all about, Reg?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The People's Republic of Treacle Mine Road!” said Reg proudly. “We are forming a government!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, good,” said Vimes. “Another one. Just what we need. Now, does any one of you know where my damn barricades have gone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ullo, Mr Keel,” said a glutinous voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked down beside him. There, still wearing his hugely oversize coat but now with the addition of a helmet much too large for him, was Nobby Nobbs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How did you get there, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My mum says I'm insidious,” said Nobby, grinning. A concertina sleeve rose to the vicinity of Nobby's head, and Vimes realized that somewhere in there was a salute.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She's right,” said Vimes. “So, where—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'m a acting constable now, sarge,” said Nobby. “Mr Colon said so. Gave me a spare helmet, 'm carvin' meself a badge out of, of—what's that, like, waxy, kind of like candles but you can't eat it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Soap, Nobby. Remember the word.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sarge. Then I'm gonna carve a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where have the barricades gone. Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'll cost—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am your <em class="calibre8">sergeant</em>, Nobby. We are not in a financial relationship. Tell me where the bloody barricades are!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Urn…prob'ly nearly to Short Street, sarge. It's all got a bit…metaphysical, sarge.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36393887" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Major Clive Mountjoy-Standfast stared blankly at the map in front of him, trying to find some comfort. He was, tonight, the senior officer in the field. The commanders had gone to the palace for some party or other. And he was in charge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had conceded that the city's regiments had quite a few officers who weren't fools. Admittedly they got fewer the higher you went, but by accident or design every army needs, in key if unglamorous posts, men who can reason and make lists and arrange for provisions and baggage wagons and, in general, have an attention span greater than a duck. It's their job to actually run things, leaving the commanding officer free to concentrate on higher matters.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the major was, indeed, not a fool, even though he looked like one. He was idealistic, and thought of his men as “jolly good chaps” despite the occasional evidence to the contrary, and on the whole did the best he could with the moderate intelligence at his disposal. When he was a boy he'd read books about great military campaigns, and visited the museums and looked with patriotic pride at the paintings of famous cavalry charges, last stands and glorious victories. It had come as rather a shock, when he later began to participate in some of these, to find that the painters had unaccountably left out the intestines. Perhaps they just weren't very good at them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major hated the map. It was the map of a city. A city wasn't a place for cavalry, for heavens' sake! Of course there had been casualties among the men. Three of them had been deaths. Even a cavalry helmet is not a lot of use against a ballistic cobblestone. And a trooper had been pulled off his horse in Dolly Sisters and, bluntly, mobbed to death. And that was tragic and terrible and, unfortunately, inevitable, once fools had decided to use cavalry in a city with as many alleys as Ankh-Morpork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major didn't think of his superiors as fools, of course, since it would follow that everyone who obeyed them was a fool. He used the term “unwise”, and felt worried when he used it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As for the rest of the casualties, three of them had been men knocked senseless by riding into hanging shop signs while pursuing…well, people, when it came down to it, because with the smoke and darkness who could tell who the real enemy was? The idiots had apparently assumed that anyone running away was the enemy. And they'd been the luckier idiots, because men who rode their horses into dark alleys which twisted this way and that and got narrower and narrower, and then realized that it had all gone quiet and their horse couldn't turn round, well, they were men who learned how fast a man could run in cavalry boots.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He totted up the reports. Broken bones, bruises, one man suffering from “friendly stab” by a comrade's sabre…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked across the makeshift table at Captain Tom Wrangle of Lord Selachii's Light Infantry, who glanced up from his own paperwork and gave him a weak smile. They'd been at school together and Wrangle, the major knew, was a lot brighter than him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's it look like to you, Tom?” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've lost nearly eighty men,” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? That's terrible!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, about sixty of them are deserters, as far as I can see. You tend to get that in this sort of mess. Some have probably just popped home to see dear ol' mum.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre8">deserters</em>. We've had some of those, too. In the cavalry! What would you call a man who leaves his horse behind?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An infantryman? As for the rest, well, as far as I can see only six or seven of them went down to definite enemy action. Three men got stabbed in alleyways, for example.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sounds like enemy action to <em class="calibre8">me</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Clive. But you were born in Quirm.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only because my mother was visiting her aunt and the coach was late!” said the major, going red. “If you cut me in half you'd find Ankh-Morpork written on my heart!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, let's hope it doesn't come to that,” said Tom. “Anyway, getting murdered in alleyways is just part of life in the big city.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they were armed men! Swords, helmets—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Valuable loot, Clive.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I thought the City Watch took care of the gangs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tom looked at his friend over the top of his paperwork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you suggesting that we ask for police protection? Anyway, there isn't any, not any more. Some of the watchmen are with us, for what good they are, and the rest either got beaten up or ran away—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“More deserters?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Frankly, Clive, everyone's drifting away so fast that by tomorrow we'll be feeling pretty lonely.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The men paused as a corporal brought in some more messages. They thumbed through them gloomily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's gone quiet, anyway,” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Suppertime,” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major threw up his hands. “This isn't war! A man throws a rock, walks around the corner and he's an upstanding citizen again! There's no <em class="calibre8">rules</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain nodded. Their training hadn't covered this sort of thing. They'd studied maps of campaigns, with broad sweeping plains and the occasional patch of high ground that had to be taken. Cities were to be laid siege to, or defended. They weren't for fighting in. You couldn't see, you couldn't group, you couldn't manoeuvre and you were always going to be up against people who knew the place like their own kitchen. And you <em class="calibre8">definitely</em> didn't want to fight an enemy that had no uniform.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's your lordship?” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gone to the ball, the same as yours.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what were your orders, may I ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He told me to do whatever I considered necessary to carry out our original objectives.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did he write that down?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pity. Neither did mine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked at one another. And then Wrangle said, “Well…there's no actual <em class="calibre8">unrest</em> at the moment. As such. My father said all this happened in his time. He said it's best just to keep the lid on it. There's only a limited number of cobblestones, he said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's almost ten,” said the major. “People will be going to bed soon, surely?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their joint expression radiated the fervent hope that it had all calmed down. No one in their right mind wanted to be in a position where he was expected to do what he thought best.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, Clive, provided there's no—” the captain began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a commotion outside the tent, and then a man stepped inside. He was bloodstained and smoke-blackened, his face lined with pink where sweat had trickled through the dreadful grime. A crossbow was slung across his back, and he'd acquired a bandolier of knives.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he was mad. The major recognized the look. The eyes were too bright, the grin too fixed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right,” he said, and removed a large brass knuckle-duster from his right hand. “Sorry about your sentry, gen'lemen, but he didn't want to let me in even though I gave him the password. Are you in charge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who the hell are you?” said the major, standing up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man seemed unimpressed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carcer. <em class="calibre8">Sergeant</em> Carcer,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A sergeant? In that case you can—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“From Cable Street,” Carcer added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now the major hesitated. Both the soldiers knew about the Unmentionables, although if asked they probably wouldn't have been able to articulate exactly what it was that they knew. Unmentionables worked in secret, behind the scenes. They were a lot more than just watchmen. They reported directly to the Patrician; they had a lot of pull. You didn't mess with them. They were not people to cross. It didn't matter that this man was only a sergeant. He was an Unmentionable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, what was worse, the major realized that the creature could see what he was thinking and was enjoying the view.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” said Carcer. “That's right. And it's lucky for you that I'm here, soldier boy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Soldier boy, thought the major. And there were men listening, who'd remember that. Soldier boy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How so?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“While you and your shiny soldiers have been prancing around chasing washerwomen,” said Carcer, pulling up the tent's only vacant chair and sitting down, “the <em class="calibre8">real</em> trouble's been happening down in Treacle Mine Road. You know it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are you talking about? We haven't had any reports about any disturbances down there, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right. Don't you think that's strange?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major hesitated. A vague memory bobbed at the back of his mind…and there was a grunt from the captain, who pushed a piece of paper across to him. He glanced at it, and recalled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of my captains was down there this afternoon and said everything was under control,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Whose control?” said Carcer. He leaned back in his chair and put his boots on the desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major stared at them, but the boots showed no sign of embarrassment. “Remove your feet from my desk,” he said coldly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer's eyes narrowed. “You an' whose army?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mine, as a matter of fact…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major looked into Carcer's eyes, and wished he hadn't. Mad. He'd seen eyes like that on the battlefield.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Very slowly, with exaggerated care, Carcer swung his feet off the table. Then he pulled out a handkerchief made grimy with unguessable humours, huffed theatrically on the wood, and polished it industriously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do beg your pardon so very much,” he said. “However, while you <em class="calibre8">gentlemen</em> have been keeping your desk nice and clean, a canker, as they say, haha, is eating at the very heart of the city. Has anyone told you that the Cable Street Watch House has been burned to the ground? With, we believe, the loss of the lives of poor Captain Swing and at least one of our…technical people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Swing, bigods,” said Captain Wrangle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is what I said. All the scum your lads have been driving out of Dolly Sisters and all the other nests, well, they've ended up down there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major looked at the report. “But our patrol said that everything seemed to be in hand, the Watch were very visible on the streets, and people were showing the flag and singing the national anthem,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There you are, then,” said Carcer. “Do you ever sing the national anthem in the street, major?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, no—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who did his lordship send down there?” said Wrangle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Major Mountjoy-Standfast thumbed through his papers. His face fell. “Rust,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear. That's a blow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I daresay the man is dead,” said Carcer, and the major tried not to look slightly more cheerful. “The person in charge down there now calls himself Sergeant Keel. But he is a impostor. The real Keel is in the mortuary.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you know all this?” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We in the Particulars have ways of finding things out,” said Carcer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've heard,” murmured the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Martial law, gentlemen, means that the military comes to the aid of the civil power,” said Carcer. “And that's me, right now. O'course, you could send a couple of runners up to the ball, but I don't reckon that would be a good career move. So what I'm asking is for your men to assist us with a little…surgical strike.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major stared at him. There was now no limit to the distaste he had for Carcer. But he hadn't been a major for very long, and when you've just been promoted you hope to stay that way long enough for the braid to get a tarnish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He forced himself to smile. “You and your men have had a long day, sergeant,” he said. “Why don't you go along to the mess tent while I consult with my fellow officers?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer stood up with a suddenness that made the major flinch, then leaned forward with his knuckles on the desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do that, sonny Jim,” he said, with a grin like the edge of a rusty saw. Then he turned and strode out into the night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the silence that followed Wrangle said, “His name is on the list of officers that Swing sent us yesterday, I'm afraid. And, er, he's technically correct about the law.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean we have to take orders from him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. But he's entitled to request assistance from you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Am I entitled to refuse?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. Of course. But…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…I'd have to tell his lordship why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But that man's an evil bastard! You know the sort. The kind that joins up for the pillaging? The kind you have to end up hanging as an example to the men?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, he's right about one thing. I've been looking at the reports and, well, it's odd. It's all been very quiet down towards Treacle Mine Road.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's good, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's unbelievable, Clive, when you put it all together. Even the Watch House didn't get attacked, it says here. Er…and your Captain Burns says he met this Keel chap, or someone who said he was Keel, and he says that if the man's a Watch sergeant then he, Burns, is a monkey's uncle. He says the man is used to serious command. I think he rather took to him, to tell you the truth.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ye gods, Tom, I need some <em class="calibre8">help</em> here!” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then send out some gallopers right away. A little informal patrolling, perhaps. Get some proper intelligence. You can afford to wait half an hour.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! Right! Good idea!” said the major, steaming with relief. “See to it, could you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After the flurry of orders, he sat back and stared at the map. Some things at least made sense. All these barricades looked inward. People were barricading themselves against the palace and the centre of the city. No one would be bothered much about the outside world. If you <em class="calibre8">had</em> to take an outlying part of the city in those circumstances, then the thing to do would be to go in via a gatehouse in the city wall. They might not be quite so guarded as they ought to be.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tom?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Clive?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you ever sung the national anthem?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, lots of times, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't mean officially.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean just to show I'm patriotic? Good gods, no. That would be a rather odd thing to do,” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And how about the flag?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, obviously I salute it every day, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you don't wave it, at all?” the major enquired.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I waved a paper one a few times when I was a little boy. Patrician's birthday or something. We stood in the streets as he rode by and we shouted ‘Hurrah!’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never since then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, <em class="calibre8">no</em>, Clive,” said the captain, looking embarrassed. “I'd be very worried if I saw a man singing the national anthem and waving the flag, sir. It's really a thing foreigners do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't need to show <em class="calibre8">we're</em> patriotic, sir. I mean, this is Ankh-Morpork. We don't have to make a big fuss about being the best, sir. We just <em class="calibre8">know</em>.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36394588" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">@It was a beguiling theory that might have arisen in the minds of Wiglet and Waddy and, yes, even in the not overly exercised mind of Fred Colon, and as far as Vimes could understand it, it went like this.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">1. Supposing the area <em class="calibre8">behind</em> the barricades was bigger than the area in <em class="calibre8">front</em> of the barricades, right?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">2. Like, sort of, it had more people in it and more of the city, if you follow me.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">3. Then, correct me if I'm wrong, sarge, but that'd mean in a manner of speaking we are now in <em class="calibre8">front</em> of the barricades, am I right?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">4. Then, as it were, it's not like <em class="calibre8">we're</em> rebellin', is it? 'cos there's <em class="calibre8">more</em> of us, so the majority can't rebel, it stands to reason.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">5. So that makes us the good guys. Obviously we've been the good guys all along, but now it'd be kind of official, right? Like, mathematical?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">6. So we thought we'd push on to Short Street and then we could nip down into Dimwell and up the other side of the river…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">7. Are we going to get into trouble for this, sarge?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">8. You're looking at me in a funny way, sarge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">9. Sorry, sarge.</div>
      <br class="calibre9"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, with an increasingly worried Fred Colon in front of him, and some of the other barricadeers standing around as if caught in an illicit game of Knocking On Doors And Running Away, thought about this. The men watched him carefully, in case of explosion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And it actually made a weird kind of logic, if you didn't factor in considerations like “real life” and “common sense”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd worked hard. It was easy enough to block a city street, heavens knew. You just nailed planks around a couple of wagons and piled it high with furniture and junk. That took care of the main streets, and with enough pushing you could move it forwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As for the rest, it really hadn't been that hard. There had been lots of small barricades in any case. The lads had simply joined them up. Without anyone really noticing, The People's Republic of Treacle Mine Road now occupied almost a quarter of the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a few deep breaths.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did I <em class="calibre8">tell</em> you to do this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's too many alleys. There's too many <em class="calibre8">people</em>, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon brightened. “Ah, well, there's more coppers too, sarge. A lot of the lads found their way here. Good lads, too. And Sergeant Dickins, he knows about this stuff, he remembers the last time this happened, sarge, so he asked every able-bodied man who knew how to use a weapon to muster up, sarge. There's a <em class="calibre8">lot</em> of 'em, sarge! We got an <em class="calibre8">army</em>, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This is how the world collapses, thought Vimes. I was just a young fool, I didn't see it like this. I thought Keel was leading the revolution. I wonder if that's what he thought, too?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But I just wanted to keep a few streets safe. I just wanted to keep a handful of decent, silly people away from the dumb mobs and the mindless rebels and the idiot soldiery. I really, really hoped we could get away with it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Maybe the monks were right. Changing history is like damming a river. It'll find its way round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He saw Sam beaming among the men. Hero worship, he thought. That sort of thing can turn you blind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any trouble?” he said to Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't think anyone's worked out what's happening here, sarge. There's been a lot happening around Dolly Sisters and over that way. Cavalry charges and what have you—hold on, here come some more.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A watchman had signalled from the top of the barricade. Vimes heard the commotion on the other side of the pile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“More people runnin' away from Dolly Sisters, by the look of it,” said Colon. “What d'you want us to do, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Keep them out, thought Vimes. We don't know who they are. We can't let everyone in. Some of them <em class="calibre8">will</em> be trouble.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The trouble is, I know what's going on out there. The city is a little slice of Hell, and there's no real safety anywhere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And I know what I'm going to decide, because I watch me decide it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I don't believe this. I'm standing over there now, a kid who's still clean and pink and full of ideals, looking at me as if I'm some kind of hero. I don't dare not be. I'm going to make the stupid decision because I don't want to look bad in front of <em class="calibre8">myself</em>. Try explaining that to anyone who hasn't had a couple of drinks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, let them through,” he said. “But no weapons. Pass the word around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take weapons off people?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Think about it, Fred. We don't want Unmentionables in here, do we, or soldiers in disguise? A man's got to be vouched for before he can carry arms. I ain't going to be stabbed in the back and the front at the same time. Oh, and Fred…I don't know if I can do this, and probably it won't last, but as far as I'm concerned you're promoted to sergeant. Anyone who wants to argue about the extra stripe, tell 'em to argue with me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon's chest, already running to fat, swelled visibly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Right</em>, sarge. Er…does that mean I still take orders from you? Right. Right. Right. I still take orders from you. Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't move any more barricades. Fill up the alleys. Hold this line. Vimes, you come with me, I'll need a runner.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm pretty runny, sarge,” Nobby volunteered, from somewhere behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then what I want you to do, Nobby, is get out there and find out what's happening now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Dickins turned out to be younger than Vimes remembered. But he was still close to retirement. He'd maintained a flourishing sergeant's moustache, waxed to points and clearly dyed, and the proper sergeant shape, occasioned by means of undisclosed corsetry. He'd spent a lot of time in the regiments, Vimes recalled, although he came from Llamedos originally. The men found that out because he belonged to some druid religion so strict that they didn't even use standing stones. And they were strongly against swearing, which is a real handicap in a sergeant. Or would be, if sergeants weren't so good at improvising.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was currently in Welcome Soap, a continuation of Cable Street. And he had the army.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't much of one. No two weapons were exactly alike and most of them were not, strictly speaking, weapons. Vimes shuddered when he saw the crowd and had a flashback, which was probably a flash forward, to all the domestic disputes he'd attended over the years. You knew where you were with strictly-speaking weapons when they came at you. It was the not-strictly-speaking ones that scared the cacky out of a new recruit. It was the meat cleavers tied to poles. It was the long spikes, and the meathooks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This was, after all, the area of small traders, porters, butchers and longshoremen. And so standing in raggedy lines in front of Vimes were men who, every day, peacefully and legally, handled things with blades and spikes that made a mere sword look like a girl's hatpin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were classic weapons, too. Men had come back from wars with their sword or their halberd. Weapons? Gods bless you, sir, no! Them's <em class="calibre8">mementoes</em>. And the sword had probably been used to poke the fire, and the halberd had done duty as a support for one end of the washing line, and their original use had been forgotten…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…until now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the metalwork. All this lot would have to do to win a battle would be to stand still. If the enemy charged them hard enough, he'd come out the other side as mince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of 'em are retired watchmen, sah,” Dickins whispered. “A lot of them have been in the regiments at one time or another, see. There's a few kids wanting to see some action, you know how it is. What d'you think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd certainly hate to fight them,” said Vimes. At least a quarter of the men had white hair, and more than a few were using their weapons as a means of support. “Come to that, I'd hate to be responsible for giving them an order. If I said ‘about turn!’ to this lot, it'd be raining limbs.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're resolute, sah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fair enough. But I don't want a war.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it won't come to that, sah,” said Dickins. “I've seen a few barricades in my time. It generally ends peaceful. The new man takes over, people get bored, everyone goes home, see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But Winder is a nutter,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me one that wasn't, sah,” said Dickins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sir, thought Vimes. Or “sah”, at least. And he's older than me. Oh well, I might as well be good at it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant,” he said, “I want you to pick twenty of the best, men that have seen action. Men you can trust. And I want them down at the Shambling Gate, and alert.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Dickins looked puzzled. “But that's barred, sah. And it's right down behind us, it is. I thought maybe—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Down at the gate, sergeant,” Vimes insisted. “They're to watch for anyone sneaking up to unbar it. And I want the guard on the bridges to be strengthened. Put down caltrops on the bridge, string wires…I want anyone who tries to come at us over the bridge to have a really bad time, understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you know something, sah?” said Dickins, with his head on one side.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's just say I'm thinking like the enemy, shall we?” said Vimes. He took a step closer and lowered his voice. “You know some history, Dai. No one with an ounce of sense goes up against a barricade. You find the weakness.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's other gates down there, sah,” said Dickins doubtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but if they take Shambling they get into Elm Street and have a nice long gallop, right into where we're not expecting them,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But…you <em class="calibre8">are</em> expecting them, sah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes just gave him a blank look, which sergeants are quite good at deciphering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As good as done, sah!” said Dickins happily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I want a decent presence at all the barricades,” said Vimes. “And a couple of patrols that can go wherever there's trouble. Sergeant, you <em class="calibre8">know</em> how to do it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sah.” Dickins saluted smartly, and grinned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to the assembled citizenry. “All right, you shower!” he yelled. “Some of you has been in a regiment, I know it! How many of you knows ‘All The Little Angels’?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few of the more serious class of mementoes rose in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good! Already we has a choir! Now, this is a soldiers' song, see? You don't look like soldiers but by the gods I'll see you sounds like 'em! You'll pick it up as we goes along! Right turn! March! ‘All the little angels rise up, rise up, All the little angels rise up high!’ Sing it, you sons of mothers!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The marchers picked up the response from those who knew it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do they rise up, rise up, rise up, how do they rise up, rise up high? They rise <em class="calibre8">heads</em> up, <em class="calibre8">heads</em> up, <em class="calibre8">heads</em> up—” sang out Dickins, as they turned the corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes listened as the refrain died away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a nice song,” said young Sam, and Vimes remembered that he was hearing it for the first time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's an old soldiers' song,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really, sarge? But it's about angels.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Yes, thought Vimes, and it's amazing what bits those angels cause to rise up as the song progresses. It's a <em class="calibre8">real</em> soldiers' song: sentimental, with dirty bits.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As I recall, they used to sing it after battles,” he said. “I've seen old men cry when they sing it,” he added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why? It sounds cheerful.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They were remembering who they were not singing it with, thought Vimes. You'll learn. I <em class="calibre8">know</em> you will.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36395035" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while, the patrols came back. Major Mountjoy-Standfast was bright enough not to ask for written reports. They took too long and weren't very well spelled. One by one, the men told the story. Sometimes Captain Wrangle, who was plotting things on the map, would whistle under his breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's huge, sir. It really is! Nearly a quarter of the city's behind barricades down there!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major rubbed his forehead and turned to Trooper Gabitass, the last man in and the one who seemed to have taken pains to get the most information.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're all on a sort of line, sir. So I rode up to the one in Heroes Street, with me helmet off and looking off-duty, sort of thing, and I asked what it was all about. A man shouted down that everything was all right, thank you very much, and they'd finished all the barricades for now. I said what about law and order, and they said we've got plenty, thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one fired at you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. Wish I could say the same about round here. People were throwing stones at me and an old lady emptied a pissp—a utensil all over me from her window. Er…there's something else, sir. Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Out with it, man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I, er, think I recognized a few people. Up on the barricades. Er…they were some of ours, sir…”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36395078" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shut his eyes, in the hope that the world would be a better place. But when he opened them, it was still full of the pink face of only-just Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred,” he said, “I wonder if you fully understand the basic idea here? The soldiers—that's the <em class="calibre8">other</em> people, Fred—they stay on the <em class="calibre8">outside</em> of the barricade. If they are on the <em class="calibre8">inside</em>, Fred, we don't, in any real sense, <em class="calibre8">have</em> a bloody barricade. Do you understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. But—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want to do a spell in a regiment, Fred, and one of the things I think you'll find they're very hot on indeed is knowing who's on your side and who is not, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But, sir, they are—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, how long have I known you, Fred?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two or three days, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…right. Yeah. Of course. Seems longer. So <em class="calibre8">why</em>, Fred, do I arrive here and find you've let in what seems like a platoon? You haven't been thinking metaphysically again, have you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It started with Billy Wiglet's brother, sir,” said Colon nervously. “A few of his mates came with him. All local lads. And there's a lad Nancyball grew up with and a bloke who's the son of Waddy's next-door neighbour who he used to go out drinking with, and then there's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How many, Fred?” said Vimes wearily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sixty, sir. Might be a few more by now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it doesn't occur to you that they might be part of some clever plan?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge, it never did. 'cos I can't see Wally Wiglet being part of a clever plan, sarge, on account of him not being much of a thinker, sir. They only allowed him to be in the regiment after he got someone to paint L and R on his boots. See, we <em class="calibre8">know</em> 'em all sarge. Most of the lads join up for a bit, just to get out of the city and maybe show Johnny Foreigner who's boss. They never expected to have old grannies spitting on them in their own city, sarge. That can get a lad down, that sort of thing. And getting cobblestones chucked at them too, of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave in. It was all true. “All right,” he said. “But if this goes on, everyone is going to be inside the barricade, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And there could be worse ways of ending it, he thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People had lit fires in the streets. Some cooking pots had been brought out. But most of the people were engaging in Ankh-Morpork's traditional pastime, which was hanging around to see what'd happen next.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's going to happen next, sarge?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think they'll attack in two places,” said Vimes. “The cavalry will go right outside the city and try to come in through the Shambling Gate because that'll look easy. And the soldiers and…the rest of the Watch who aren't on our side will probably creep across Misbegot Bridge under cover.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you sure, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Positive,” said Vimes. After all, it had already happened…or something…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He pinched the bridge of his nose. He couldn't quite remember when he'd slept last. <em class="calibre8">Slept</em>, not dozed or been unconscious. He knew his thinking was a little fuzzy around the edges. But he did know how the Treacle Mine Road barricade had been broken. It had been only one sentence in the history book, but he remembered it. Sieges that weren't broken via treachery were breached via some small door around the back. It was a fact of history.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it won't be for an hour or two,” he said aloud. “We're not important enough. It's all been quiet down here. It's when they start to wonder why that the midden will hit the windmill.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lots of people are getting through, sarge. Some of the men said they could hear screaming in the distance. People are just piling in. There's robberies and everything going on out there…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lance-constable?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know when you wanted to swing a club at that torturing bastard and I stopped you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's why, lad. Once we break down, it all breaks down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge, but you do bop people over the head.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Interesting point, lance-constable. Logical and well made, too, in a clear tone of voice bordering on the bloody cheeky. But there's a big difference.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what's that, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll find out,” said Vimes. And privately thought: the answer is, It's Me Doing It. I'll grant that it is not a good answer, because people like Carcer use it too, but that's what it boils down to. Of course, it's also to stop me knifing them and, let's be frank, them knifing me. That's quite important, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their walk had brought them to a big fire in the centre of the street. A cauldron was bubbling on it, and people were queuing up, holding bowls.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Smells good,” he said, to the figure gently stirring the cauldron's contents with a ladle. “Oh, it's you, er, Mr Dibbler…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's called Victory Stew, sergeant,” said Dibbler. “Tuppence a bowl or I'll cut my throat, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Close enough,” said Vimes, and looked at the strange (and, what was worse, occasionally hauntingly familiar) lumps seething in the scum. “What's in it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's stew,” explained Dibbler. “Strong enough to put hairs on your chest.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I can see that some of those bits of meat have got bristles on them already,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! That's how good it is!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It looks…very nice,” said Sam weakly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll have to excuse the lance-constable, Mr Dibbler,” said Vimes. “The poor lad was brought up not to eat stew that winks at him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down with his bowl and his back against the wall and looked up at the barricade. People had been busy. In truth, there wasn't much else to do. The one here, from side to side of Heroes Street, was fourteen feet high and even had a crude walkway. It looked businesslike.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He leaned back and shut his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a hesitant slurping sound beside him as young Sam tried the stew, and then: “Is it going to come down to fighting, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Vimes, without opening his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like, really fighting?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But won't there be some talking first?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nope,” said Vimes, trying to make himself comfortable. “Maybe some talking afterwards.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Seems the wrong way round!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, lad, but it's a tried and tested method.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no further comment. Slowly, with the sounds of the street in his ears, Vimes slid into sleep.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36395336" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Major Mountjoy-Standfast knew what would happen if he sent a message to the palace. “What do I do now, sir?” was not something his lordship wanted to hear. It was not the sort of question a major was supposed to ask, given that the original orders had been very clear. Barricades were to be torn down, rebels were to be repelled. Grasp the nettle firmly and all that. He had, as a child, grasped nettles firmly, and had sometimes had a hand the size of a small pig.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were deserters behind the barricade. Deserters! How did that happen?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a huge barricade, it was lined with armed men, there were deserters on it, and he had his orders. It was all clear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If only they'd, well, <em class="calibre8">rebel</em>. He'd sent Trooper Gabitass down there again, and by his account it seemed very peaceful. Normal city life appeared to be going on behind the barricade, which was more than you could say for the chaos outside it. If they'd fired on Gabitass, or thrown things, that would have made it so much easier. Instead they were acting…well…<em class="calibre8">decently</em>. That was no way for enemies of the state to behave!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">An enemy of the state was in front of the major now. Gabitass had not come back empty-handed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Caught it sneakin' after me,” he said. To the captive he said, “Been behind the barricade, haven't we, my lad!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can it speak?” said the major, staring at the thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's no need to be like that,” said Nobby Nobbs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a street urchin, sir,” said the trooper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major stared at all he could see of the prisoner, which was an oversized helmet and a nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get it something to stand on, will you, captain?” he said, and waited while a stool was found. It did not, all things considered, improve matters. It just gave rise to questions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's got a Watch badge, trooper. Is it some kind of mascot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carved it meself out of soap,” said Nobby. “So I can be a copper.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?” said the major. There was something about the apparition that, despite the urgency, called for a kind of horrified yet fascinated study.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I'm thinking of going for a soldier if I grow up,” Nobby went on, giving the major a happy grin. “Much better pickin's, the way things are going.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid you're not tall enough,” said the major quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't see why not, the enemy reaches all the way to the ground,” said Nobby. “Anyway, people're lyin' down when you get their boots off. Ol' Sconner, he says the money's in teeth and earrings but I say every man's bound to have a pair of boots, right? Whereas there's a lot of bad teeth around these days and the false-teeth makers always demand a decent set—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you mean to tell me that you want to join the army just to loot the battlefields?” said the major, completely shocked. “A little…lad like you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Once when ol' Sconner was sober for two days together he made me a little set of soldiers,” said Nobby. “An' they had these little boots that you could—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up,” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—take off, and tiny tiny little wooden teeth that you could—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Will you <em class="calibre8">shut up</em>!” said the major. “Have you no interest in honour? Glory? Love of city?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno. Can you get much for 'em?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They are <em class="calibre8">priceless</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, well, in that case I'll stick with the boots, if it's all the same to you,” said Nobby. “You can sell them for ten pence a pair if you know the right shop—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look at Trooper Gabitass there!” said the major, now quite upset. “Twenty years' service, a fine figure of a soldier! He wouldn't stoop to stealing the boots of a fallen enemy, would you, trooper?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir! Mug's game, sir!” said Trooper Gabitass.<a href="#_ftn8" title="8. And this was true. Don't bother with the boots, would have been Trooper Gabitass's advice, had he been inclined to part with it. You need to bribe someone on the baggage carts to build up stock and when all's said and done you'll only make a few dollars. Stick to jewellery. It's portable. Trooper Gabitass had seen too many battlefields up close to use the word “glory” without wincing."><sup class="calibre11">8</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…yes. Right!” said the major. “You could learn a lot from men like Trooper Gabitass, young man. By the sound of it, your time with the rebels has filled your head with very wrong ideas <em class="calibre8">indeed</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ain't a rebel!” Nobby shouted. “Don't you go calling me a rebel, I ain't a rebel, I'm an Ankh-Morpork lad, I am, and proud of it! Hah, you are wrong, I've never been a rebel and you're cruel to say so! I'm an honest lad, I am!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Big tears began to run down his cheeks, washing aside the grime to reveal the lower strata of grime beneath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major had no experience of this sort of thing. Every available orifice on the little lad's face seemed to be gushing. He looked for help to Gabitass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a married man, aren't you, trooper? What are we supposed to do now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could give him a clout alongside the ear, sir,” said Trooper Gabitass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's very unfeeling, trooper! Look here, I had a handkerchief on me somewhere…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh, I have my own wiper, thank you very much, I don't have to be condescended at,” sniffed Nobby, and pulled one out of his pocket. In fact, he pulled several dozen, including one with the initials C. M.-S. on it. They were tangled together like a conjuror's flags-of-all-nations, and dragged with them several purses and half a dozen spoons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby wiped his face with the first one, and thrust the entire collection back into his pocket. At this point he realized that all the men were staring at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? What?” he said defiantly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell us about this man Keel,” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know nuffin',” said Nobby automatically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha, that means you <em class="calibre8">do</em> know something,” said the major, who was indeed the sort of person who liked this kind of little triumph.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked blank. The captain leaned forward to whisper to his superior officer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, only under the rules of mathematics, sir,” he said. “Under the rules of common grammar, he is merely being emphat—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell us about Keel!” the major shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell you what, major, why not leave that sort of thing to the experts?” said a voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major looked up. Carcer and his men had entered the tent. The sergeant was grinning again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got yourself a little prisoner, have you?” he said, stepping forward to examine Nobby. “Reckon you've got a ringleader here, yeah. Told you anything, has he? I shouldn't think so. You need special training to get the best out of lads like this, haha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He slipped his hand into his pocket. When it came out, the knuckles were ringed with brass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now then, lad,” he said, as the soldiers watched in horror, “you know who I am, do you? I'm in the Particulars, me. And I can see two of you. One of them's a lively lad who's going to help the proper authorities with their business and the other is a lippy little bugger who's going to try to be clever. One of these lads has a future, and all his teeth. Now the funny thing about me, it's a little habit of mine, is that I never ask a question twice. So…you're not a criminal, are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby, his eyes huge and fixed on the brass knuckles, shook his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just do what you have to to survive, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby nodded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact you were probably a decent lad before you fell in with the rebels, I expect. Sang hymns and that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby nodded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This man who calls himself Sergeant Keel is the ringleader of the rebels, yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a moment of hesitation, and then Nobby raised a hand. “Um…everyone does what he tells them, is that the same thing?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep. Is he charismatic?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby kept staring at the brass knuckles. “Um, um, um, I don't know. I haven't heard him cough much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what do they talk about beyond the barricade, my little lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…well, Justice an' Truth an' Freedom and stuff,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha. Rebel talk!” said Carcer, straightening up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it?” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take it from me, major,” said Carcer. “When you get a bunch of people using words like that, they're up to no good.” He looked down at Nobby. “Now, I wonder what I've got in my pocket for a good boy, eh? Oh, yes…someone's ear. Still warm. Here you go, kid!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cor, thanks, mister!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now run a long way away or I'll gut yer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby fled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer glanced at the map spread on the desk. “Oh, you're planning a little sortie. That's <em class="calibre8">nice</em>. Don't want to upset the rebels, do we? Why aren't you bloody well <em class="calibre8">attacking</em>, major?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, they're not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're losing your troops to 'em! They hold a quarter of the city! And you're gonna sneak round the back. Across the bridge, I see, and up Elm Street. Quiet, like. Like you are <em class="calibre8">frightened</em>!” Carcer's hand smashed down on to the table, making the major jump.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm frightened of no man!” he lied.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're the city right now!” said Carcer, a little speck of white foam appearing at the corner of his mouth. “<em class="calibre8">They</em> sneak. <em class="calibre8">You</em> don't. You ride right up to them and damn them to hell, that's what you do. They're stealing the streets from you! You take 'em back! They've put 'emselves beyond the Law! You take the Law to 'em!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stepped back, and the manic rage subsided as quickly as it had arrived.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's my advice,” he said. “Of course, you know your own business best. Me and what's left of my poor lads, we're going to go out and fight. I'm sure their lordships will appreciate anything you feel you can do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He strode out, the Particulars falling in behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…you all right, Clive?” said the captain. Only the whites of the major's eyes were showing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What a <em class="calibre8">horrible</em> man,” said the major quietly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…yes, of course. On the other hand—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, yes. I know. We have no <em class="calibre8">choice</em>. We have orders. That…<em class="calibre8">weasel</em> is right. If the damn thing is there in the morning, I've got no career and nor have you. Show of strength, bold front, take no prisoners…that's what our orders are. Stupid, stupid orders.” He sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose we could disobey…” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you mad? And then what would we do? Don't be a fool, Tom. Muster the men, get the ox teams hitched up, let's make a bit of a show for the sake of it. Let's just get it <em class="calibre8">over</em> with!”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36395756" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was shaken awake. He looked up into his own face, younger, less lined, more terrified.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wha'?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're bringing up siege weapons, sarge! They're coming down the <em class="calibre8">street</em>, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? That's stupid! The barricade is highest here! A couple of men could defend it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes leapt to his feet. It must be a feint. A stupid feint, too. Just here Waddy and his mates had wedged two big carts across the road, and they'd become the nucleus of a solid wall of wood and rubble. But there was a narrow, low entrance for people to come through, which let them into the Republic with their head at just the right height for a gentle tap if they turned out to be a soldier. People were scrambling through now like rats.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes climbed up the barricade and looked over the top. At the far end of the street a big metal wall was advancing, surrounded by flaming torches. That was all there was to see, in a city without lights. But he knew what it was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was called Big Mary and it was mounted on a heavy cart. Vimes had seen it before. There would be a couple of oxen behind the cart, pushing it. The walls weren't solid metal, but merely a skin to stop defenders throwing fire at the wooden planks underneath. And the whole thing was simply to defend the men who, behind that cosy shelter, had the big, <em class="calibre8">big</em> hooks on the end of the long chains…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd fix them in the barricade, and the oxen would be turned around in the traces, and maybe another four beasts would be added and then there was <em class="calibre8">nothing</em> you could build of wood that wouldn't be pulled apart.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Between the cart and the barricade, struggling to escape from the crush, was a mass of frightened people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You got any orders, sarge?” said Fred Colon, pulling himself up alongside Vimes. He looked up the street. “Oh dear,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, this is when you need a couple of trolls on the force,” said Vimes. “I reckon Detr—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Trolls? Huh, wouldn't work with any trolls,” said Colon. “Too fick to take orders.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You'll find out one day, thought Vimes, and said aloud: “Okay. Anyone that can't or shouldn't have a weapon, they get back as far as possible, right? Get a message to Dickins, tell him we'll need anyone he can spare, but—blast it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What'd happened before? There'd been a lot of activity against the barricades, but it had been a feint while the cavalry were sneaking around outside. He didn't remember <em class="calibre8">this</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He glanced at the oncoming wagon. At the top of the wobbling wall, on the other side, there was generally a narrow ledge for bowmen to stand and fire down at anyone trying to interfere with the demolition men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the treacherous light of the torches, Vimes thought he saw the features of Carcer. Even at this distance, there was something horribly recognizable about that expression.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swing was dead. And when everyone's running around in confusion a man who is firm of purpose can push his way up by sheer nerve. After all, Vimes thought, I did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He clambered down the barricade and looked at the men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want a volunteer <em class="calibre8">no, not you, Sam</em>. Wiglet, you'll do. Your dad's a carpenter, right? Well, there's a carpenter's shop round the corner. <em class="calibre8">Run</em> and get me a couple of mallets and some wooden wedges, or long nails…something spiky. Go, go, go!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wiglet nodded and ran off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And…let's see, yeah, I need two-penny-worth of fresh ginger. Nancyball, nip around the corner to the apothecary, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's that any good for, sarge?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gingering things up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes removed his helmet and armour, and nodded to the gap through which people were streaming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred, we'll be going out that way. Think you can push us a path?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll give it a go, sarge.” Fred squared his shoulders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're going to stop that thing. They can't move it fast and with all this noise and confusion no one will notice a thing—that was quick, Billy—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just grabbed everything, sarge,” panted Wiglet, running up with a small sack. “I know what you want to do, sarge, I did it sometimes out of mischief when I was a kid—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me too,” said Vimes. “And here's my ginger. Ah, lovely. It brings tears to my eyes. Okay, Billy? Ready, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It took all of Colon's bulk, with Vimes pushing behind him, to thrust a way through the desperate mob into the world beyond the barricade. In the darkness Vimes forced his way between the bodies, up to the side of the siege engine. It was like a huge slow ram pushing its way down the street, but jerking forward more slowly than a walking pace because of the press of people. Vimes fancied that Carcer probably enjoyed this ride.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ducked under the cart, unseen in the mob, and grabbed a mallet and a wedge from Wiglet's bag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do the left rear wheel and then make a run for it, Billy,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But sarge—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was an order. Get out, get back, get people off the street as fast as possible. Do it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes crawled up to one of the front wheels and held the wedge ready between wheel and axle. The cart stopped for a moment, and he thrust the wedge into the gap and thumped it with the hammer. He had time for another blow before the cart gave a creak that suggested the oxen were pushing again. Then he crawled back quickly and took the sack from Billy before the little man, with a reluctant glance, scuttled out into the forest of legs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes got a third wedge in before loud voices somewhere behind him indicated that the lack of progress had been noticed. The wheels rocked, and bound even further on the wedges. The wheels would have to come off before they could be got out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Even so, oxen were powerful beasts. Enough of them would have no problem at all in dragging the cart as well as the barricade. But the nice thing, the <em class="calibre8">nice</em> thing, was that people thought of a barricade as something people tried to get into, not out of…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes slipped out into the noisy, confusing night. There were soldiers, and watchmen, and refugees, all cursing at cross purposes. In the flickering shadows, Vimes was just another shape. He pushed his way confidently around to the straining oxen and their driver, who was prodding them with a stick. He was heartened by the fact that the man looked the kind of man who'd get six out of ten when answering the question: “What is your name?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't even stop. The important thing was not to let the other person have a chance to say “But—”, let alone “Who the <em class="calibre8">hell</em> do you think you are?” He pushed the man aside and glared at the sweating beasts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right, I can see your problem right here,” he said, in the voice of one who knows everything there is to know about oxen. “They've got the glaggies. But we can fix that. Hold up that one's tail. Hurry up, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The ox poker responded to the voice of authority. Vimes palmed a lump of ginger. Here goes, he thought. At least it's somewhere warm on a cold night…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay. Now the other one…right. Okay. Now, I'll just go around and, er…just go round…” said Vimes, hurrying back into the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shouldered his way through the throng and dived through the tiny hole.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's all right, sarge, I spied you coming through Mrs Rutherford's dining-room chairs,” said Fred Colon, hauling him upright. “Well, you stopped it, sarge, and no mistake. You really…urrrhg…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, don't shake hands with me until I've had a wash,” said Vimes, heading for the pump.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He kept an ear cocked for any strange noises on the other side of the barricade. There were none for several seconds. And then he heard it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nothing much had happened for some while after his visit to the oxen except that, very slowly, their eyes had begun to cross and then, also quite slowly, turn red. It takes a long time for anything to happen inside the head of an ox, but, when it does, it happens extensively.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The moo started off low and rose slowly. It was a visceral sound that had rolled across the ancient tundra and told early man that here came dinner or death, and either way it was pissed off. It was the sound of a big beast that was still too small to restrain all the emotions that were welling up inside it. And it was a duet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, hauling himself up the barricade, saw people running. Then the whole of Big Mary shuddered. That didn't look too impressive unless you knew that a couple of tons of wood had just jumped sideways. Then there was the sound of splintering, two of Big Mary's locked wheels collapsed, and she toppled sideways in a mass of flame, splinters, smoke and dust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes counted under his breath, and had only reached two when a cartwheel rolled out of the smoke and away down the road. This always happens.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't over, though. The oxen, tangled in the remains of the shafts and harness, and now an enraged joint creature that could get only six legs out of eight on the ground, headed erratically but with surprising speed in the opposite direction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other oxen, which had been waiting for the big pull, watched it approach. They were already spooked by the crash, and now they caught the stink of terror and fury and began a slow stampede away from it and towards, as it turned out, the waiting bowmen behind them who, in turn, tried to run into the cavalry. The horses were not inclined to be well behaved towards armed men in any case and were also in a state of some apprehension. They relieved this by kicking the hell out of anyone close.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was hard for the watchers along the barricade to see much of what happened after that, but the noises were very interesting for quite some time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon's mouth shut. “Bloody hell, sarge,” he said, admiringly. In the distance, glass shattered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They'll be back,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but not all of 'em,” said Wiglet. “Well done, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned, and saw Sam staring at him in wide-eyed hero worship.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was lucky, lad,” he said. “But it helps to remember little details and not mind getting your hands dirty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we could <em class="calibre8">win</em> now, sarge,” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, we can't. But we can put off losing until it doesn't hurt too much.” Vimes turned to the others. “Right, lads, back to work. We've had some fun, but dawn's a long way off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The news had got around even before he'd climbed down from the barricade. There was a cheer from the crowd, and a general struttiness about the armed men. We'd shown them, eh? They don't like the taste of cold steel, those…er…other people from Ankh-Morpork! We'll show 'em, eh?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And it had taken a few wedges, some raw ginger and a lot of luck. That wouldn't happen twice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Maybe it wouldn't need to. He remembered hearing about the assassination. It was all very mysterious. Winder had been killed in a room full of people, and no one saw a thing. Magic had been suggested, and hotly denied by the wizards. Some historians had said that it happened because troops around the palace had been sent to attack the barricades, but that didn't answer the question. Anyone who could stab a man to death in a brightly lit room full of people surely wouldn't find some guards in the darkness any kind of obstacle…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, with Snapcase as new Patrician, no one had tried very hard to establish the facts in any case. People said things like “quite possibly we shall never know the truth” which meant, in Vimes's personal lexicon, “I know, or think I know what the truth is, and hope like hell it doesn't come out, because things are all smoothed over now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Supposing we don't lose?</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">Keel hadn't killed Big Mary. She hadn't been used in the other present. The soldiers hadn't been stupid enough to try it. That sort of thing was okay to deal with little local affairs manned by civilians, but it was a joke if you put it up against stout defences manned by professionals. Now she was a wreck, the attackers would have to think up a new plan in a hurry, and time was moving on…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">Supposing we don't lose?</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">All they had to do was hold out. The people at the top had very short memories. Winder is mysteriously dead, long live Lord Snapcase! And suddenly all the rebels become glorious freedom fighters. And there's seven unfilled graves in the cemetery…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Would he be able to go back, then? Supposing Madam was right and he got offered the post of Commander, not as a bribe, but because he'd earned it? That'd change history!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took out the cigar case and stared hard at the inscription.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Let's see, he thought…if I never met Sybil, we wouldn't get married and she wouldn't buy me this, and so I couldn't be looking at it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stared hard at the curly engraving, almost willing it to disappear. It didn't.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">On the other hand,</em> that old monk had said that whatever happens, stays happened. And now Vimes had a mental picture of Sybil and Carrot and Detritus and all the rest of them, frozen in a moment that'd never have a next moment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wanted to go home. He wanted it so much that he trembled at the thought. But if the price of that was selling good men to the night, if the price was filling those graves, if the price was not fighting with every trick he knew…then it was too high.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a decision that he was making, he knew. It was happening far below the areas of the brain that made decisions. It was something built in. There was no universe, anywhere, where a Sam Vimes would give in on this, because if he did then he wouldn't be Sam Vimes any more.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The writing stayed on the silver but it was blurred now because of the tears welling up. They were tears of anger, mostly at himself. There was not a thing that he could do. He hadn't bought a ticket and he hadn't wanted to come, but now he was on the ride and couldn't get off until the end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What else had the old monk said? History finds a way? Well, it was going to have to come up with something good, because it was up against Sam Vimes now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He glanced up, and saw young Sam watching him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You okay, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine, fine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only you've been sitting there for twenty minutes looking at your cigars.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes coughed, and tucked the case away, and pulled himself together.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Half the pleasure's in the anticipation,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The night wore on. News came through, from barricades at bridges and gates. There were forays, more to test the defenders' strength of will than make a serious dent in the defences. And there were even more deserters.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One reason for the desertion rate was that those people of a practical turn of mind were working out the subtle economics. The Republic of Treacle Mine Road lacked all the big, important buildings in the city, the ones that traditional rebels were supposed to take. It had no government offices, no banks and very few temples. It was almost completely bereft of important civic architecture.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All it had was the unimportant stuff. It had the entire slaughterhouse district, and the butter market, and the cheese market. It had the tobacco factors and the candlemakers and most of the fruit and vegetable warehouses and the grain and flour stores. This meant that while the Republicans were being starved of important things like government, banking services and salvation, they were self-sufficient in terms of humdrum, everyday things like food and drink.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People are content to wait a long time for salvation, but prefer dinner to turn up inside an hour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A present from the lads down at the Shambles, sarge,” said Dickins, arriving with a wagon. “They said it'd only spoil otherwise. Is it okay for me to dish 'em out to the field kitchens?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What've you got?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Steaks, mostly,” said the old sergeant, grinning. “But I liberated a sack of onions in the name of the revolution!” He saw Vimes's expression change. “No, sarge, the man gave them to me, see. They need eating, he said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did I tell you? Every meal will be a feast in the People's Republic!” said Reg Shoe, striding up. He still hung on to his clipboard; people like Reg tend to. “If you could just take it along to the official warehouse, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What warehouse?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg sighed. “All food must go into the common warehouse and be distributed by my officials according to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Shoe,” said Dickins, “there's a cart with five hundred chickens coming up behind me, and there's another full of eggs. There's nowhere to send 'em, see? The butchers have filled up the ice-houses and smoke-rooms and the only place we can store this grub is in our guts. I ain't particularly bothered about officials.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On behalf of the Republic I order you—” Reg began, and Vimes put his hand on his shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Off you go, sergeant,” he said, nodding to Dickins. “A word in your ear, Reg?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this a military coop?” said Reg uncertainly, holding his clipboard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, it's just that we're under siege here, Reg. This is not the time. Let Sergeant Dickins sort it out. He's a fair man, he just doesn't like clipboards.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But supposing people get left out?” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's enough for everyone to eat themselves sick, Reg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe looked uncertain and disappointed, as though this prospect was less pleasing than carefully rationed scarcity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I'll tell you what,” said Vimes. “If this goes on, the city will make sure the deliveries come in by other gates. We'll be hungry then. <em class="calibre8">That's</em> when we'll need your organizational skills.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean we'll be in a famine situation?” said Reg, the light of hope in his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If we aren't, Reg, I'm sure you could organize one,” said Vimes, and realized he'd gone just a bit too far. Reg was only stupid in certain areas, and now he looked as though he was going to cry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just think it's important to be fair—” the man began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, Reg. I understand. But there's a time and a place, you know? Maybe the best way to build a bright new world is to peel some spuds in this one? Now, off you go. And you, Lance-Constable Vimes, you go and help him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes climbed back up the barricade. The city beyond was dark again, with only the occasional chink of light from a shuttered window. By comparison the streets of the Republic were ablaze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In a few hours the shops out there were expecting deliveries, and they weren't going to arrive. The government couldn't sit this one out. A city like Ankh-Morpork was only two meals away from chaos at the best of times.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Every day, maybe a hundred cows died for Ankh-Morpork. So did a flock of sheep and a herd of pigs and the gods alone knew how many ducks, chickens and geese. Flour? He'd heard it was eighty tons, and about the same amount of potatoes and maybe twenty tons of herring. He didn't particularly <em class="calibre8">want</em> to know this kind of thing, but once you started having to sort out the everlasting traffic problem these were facts that got handed to you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Every day, forty thousand eggs were laid for the city. Every day, hundreds, <em class="calibre8">thousands</em> of carts and boats and barges converged on the city with fish and honey and oysters and olives and eels and lobsters. And then think of the horses dragging this stuff, and the windmills…and the wool coming in, too, every day, the cloth, the tobacco, the spices, the ore, the timber, the cheese, the coal, the fat, the tallow, the hay <em class="calibre8">EVERY DAMN DAY</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And that was <em class="calibre8">now</em>. Back home, the city was twice as big…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Against the dark screen of night, Vimes had a vision of Ankh-Morpork. It wasn't a city, it was a <em class="calibre8">process</em>, a weight on the world that distorted the land for hundreds of miles around. People who'd never see it in their whole life nevertheless spent their life working for it. Thousands and thousands of green acres were part of it, forests were part of it. It drew in and consumed…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…and gave back the dung from its pens and the soot from its chimneys, and steel, and saucepans, and all the tools by which its food was made. And also clothes, and fashions and ideas and interesting vices, songs and knowledge and something which, if looked at in the right light, was called civilization. That's what civilization <em class="calibre8">meant</em>. It meant the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Was anyone else out there thinking about this?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A lot of the stuff came in through the Onion Gate and the Shambling Gate, both now Republican and solidly locked. There'd be a military picket on them, surely. Right now, there were carts on the way that'd find those gates closed to them. Yet no matter what the politics, eggs hatch and milk sours and herds of driven animals need penning and watering and where was that going to happen? Would the military sort it out? Well, would they? While the carts rumbled up, and then were hemmed in by the carts behind, and the pigs escaped and the cattle herds wandered off?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Was anyone <em class="calibre8">important</em> thinking about this? Suddenly the machine was wobbling, but Winder and his cronies didn't think about the machine, they thought about money. Meat and drink came from servants. They happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari, Vimes realized, thought about this sort of thing all the time. The Ankh-Morpork back home was twice as big and four times as vulnerable. He wouldn't have let something like this happen. Little wheels must spin so that the machine can turn, he'd say.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But now, in the dark, it all spun on Vimes. If the man breaks down, it all breaks down, he thought. The whole machine breaks down. And it goes on breaking down. And it breaks down the people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind him, he heard a relief squad marching down Heroes Street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—how do they rise? They rise <em class="calibre8">knees</em> up! <em class="calibre8">knees</em> up! <em class="calibre8">knees</em> up! They rise <em class="calibre8">knees</em> up, <em class="calibre8">knees</em> up high. All the little angels—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For a moment Vimes wondered, looking out through a gap in the furniture, if there wasn't something in Fred's idea about moving the barricades on and on, like a sort of sieve, street by street. You could let through the decent people, and push the bastards, the rich bullies, the wheelers and dealers in people's fates, the leeches, the hangers-on, the brown-nosers and courtiers and smarmy plump devils in expensive clothes, all those people who didn't know or care about the machine but stole its grease, push them into a smaller and smaller compass and then leave them in there. Maybe you could toss some food in every couple of days, or maybe you could leave 'em to do what they'd always done, which was live off other people…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There wasn't much noise from the dark streets. Vimes wondered what was going on. He wondered if anyone out there was taking care of business.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36396453" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Major Mountjoy-Standfast stared empty-eyed at the damn, damn map.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How many, then?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thirty-two men injured, sir. And another twenty probable desertions,” said Captain Wrangle. “And Big Mary is firewood, of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh gods…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you want to hear the rest, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's more?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid there is, sir. Before the remains of Big Mary left Heroes Street, sir, she smashed twenty shop windows and various carts, doing damage estimated at—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fortunes of war, captain. We can't help that!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.” The captain coughed. “Do you want to know what happened next, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Next? There was a next?” said the major, beginning to panic.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…yes, sir. Quite a lot of next, actually, sir. Um. The three gates through which most of the agricultural produce comes into the city are picketed, sir, on your orders, so the carters and drovers are trying to bring their stuff along Short Street, sir. Fortunately not too many animals at this time of night, sir, but there were six millers' wagons, one wagon of, er, dried fruits and spices, four dairymen's wagons and three hegglers' carts. All wrecked, sir. Those oxen really were <em class="calibre8">very</em> feisty, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hegglers? What the hell are hegglers?” said the major, bewildered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Egg marketers, sir. They travel around the farms, pick up the eggs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, all right! And what are we supposed to do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We could make an enormous cake, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tom!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sir. But the city doesn't <em class="calibre8">stop</em>, you see. It's not like a battlefield. The best place for urban fighting is right out in the countryside, sir, where there's nothing else in the way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a bloody big barricade, Tom. Too well defended. We can't even set fire to the damn thing, it'll take the city up with it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. And the point is, sir, that they're not actually <em class="calibre8">doing</em> anything, sir. Except being there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're even putting old grannies up on the barricades, shouting down to the lads. Poor Sergeant Franklin, sir, his granny saw him and said that if he didn't turn it up she'd tell everyone what he did when he was eleven, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The men are armed, aren't they?” said the major, wiping his forehead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. But we've kind of advised them not to shoot unarmed old ladies, sir. We don't want another Dolly Sisters, do we, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The major stared at the map. There was a solution, he felt. “Well, what <em class="calibre8">did</em> Sergeant Franklin do when he was—” he said absent-mindedly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She didn't say, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A sudden feeling of relief stole over the major. “Captain, you know what this is now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure you'll tell me, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will, Tom, I will. This is <em class="calibre8">political</em>, Tom. We're soldiers. Political goes higher up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're <em class="calibre8">right</em>, sir. Well done, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dig out a lieutenant who has been a bit slack lately and send him up to tell their lordships,” said the major.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Isn't that a bit cruel, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course it is. This is <em class="calibre8">politics</em> now.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36396616" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Albert Selachii didn't much like parties. There was too much politics. And he particularly didn't like this one because it meant he was in the same room as Lord Winder, a man who, deep down, he believed to be A Bad Sort. In his personal vocabulary, there was no greater condemnation. What made it worse was that, while seeking to avoid him, he also had to try at the same time to avoid Lord Venturi. Their families cordially detested one another. Lord Albert wasn't sure, now, what event in history had caused the rift, but it must have been important, obviously, otherwise it would be silly to go on like this. Had the Selachii and the Venturi been hill clans, they would have been a-feudin' and a-fightin'^; since they were two of the city's leading families they were chillingly, viciously, icily polite to each other whenever social fate forced them together. And right now his careful orbit of the less dangerously political areas of the damn party had brought him face to face with Lord Charles Venturi. It was bad enough having to campaign with the feller, he thought, without being forced to talk to him over some rather inferior wine, but currently the party's tides offered no way of escape without being impolite. And, curiously, upper-class etiquette in Ankh-Morpork held that, while you could snub your friends any time you felt like it, it was the height of bad form to be impolite to your worst enemy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Venturi,” he said, raising his glass a carefully calculated fraction of an inch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Selachii,” said Lord Venturi, doing the same thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a party,” said Albert.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. I see you are standing upright.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. So are you, I see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. Indeed. On that subject, I notice many others are doing the same thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which is not to say that the horizontal position does not have its merits when it comes to, for example, sleeping,” said Albert.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite so. Obviously that would not be done here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, indeed. Indeed.”<a href="#_ftn9" title="9. The Selachii and the Venturi made a point, on occasions like this, to talk only about things on which there was no possibility of disagreement. Given the history of the two families, this had become a very small number of things."><sup class="calibre11">9</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">A brisk lady in a magnificent purple dress advanced across the ballroom floor, her smile travelling in front of her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Selachii?” she said, proffering a hand. “I hear you have been doing sterling work defending us from the mob!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His lordship, on social automatic pilot, bowed stiffly. He wasn't used to forward women, and this one was all forward. However, all safe topics of conversation with a Venturi had been exhausted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I fear you have the advantage of me, madam…” he murmured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I certainly expect so!” said Madam, giving him such a radiant smile that he didn't analyse her actual words. “And who is this imposing military gentleman? A comrade in arms?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Selachii floundered. He'd been brought up knowing that you always introduced men to women, and this smiling lady hadn't told him her—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady Roberta Meserole,” she said. “Most people who know me call me Madam. But my friends call me Bobbi.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Venturi clicked his heels. He was quicker on the uptake than his “comrade in arms” and his wife told him more of the current gossip.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, you must be the lady from Genua,” he said, taking her hand. “I have heard so much about you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anything good?” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His lordship glanced across the room. His wife appeared to be deep in conversation. He knew to his cost that her wifely radar could fry an egg half a mile away. But the champagne had been good.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mostly expensive,” he said, which didn't sound quite as witty as he intended. She laughed anyway. Perhaps I was witty, he thought. I say, this champagne really is excellent…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A woman has to make her way in the world as best she can,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“May I make so bold as to ask if there is a Lord Meserole?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So early in the evening?” said Madam, and laughed again. Lord Venturi found himself laughing with her. My word, he told himself, this wit is a lot easier than I thought!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, of course I meant—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure you did,” said Madam, tapping him lightly with her fan. “Now, I mustn't monopolize you, but I really must drag both of you away to talk to some of my friends—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She took Lord Venturi by the unresisting arm and piloted him across the floor. Selachii followed morosely, being of the opinion that when respectable women called themselves Bobbi the world was about to end, and ought to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Carter has extensive interests in copper and Mr Jones is very interested in rubber,” she whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were about six men in the group, talking in low voices. As their lordships approached they caught “—and at a time like this one really must ask oneself where one's true loyalties lie…oh, good evening, Madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On her apparently random walk to the buffet table Madam happened to meet several other gentlemen and, like a good hostess, piloted them in the direction of other small groups. Probably only someone lying on the huge beams that spanned the hall high above would spot any pattern, and even then they'd have to know the code. If they had been in a position to put a red spot on the heads of those people who were not friends of the Patrician, and a white spot on those who were his cronies, and a pink spot on those who were perennial waverers, then they would have seen something like a dance taking place.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were not many whites.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They would have seen that there were several groups of reds, and white spots were being introduced into them in ones, or twos if the number of reds in the group was large enough. If a white left a group, he or she was effortlessly scooped up and shunted into another conversation which might contain one or two pinks but was largely red.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Any conversation entirely between white spots was gently broken up with a smile and an “oh, but now you must meet—”, or was joined by several red spots. Pinks, meanwhile, were delicately passed from red group to red group until they were deeply pink, and then they were allowed to mix with other pinks of the same hue, under the supervision of a red.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In short, the pinks met so many reds, and so few whites, that they probably forgot about whites at all, while the whites, constantly alone or hugely outnumbered by reds or deep pinks, appeared to be going red out of embarrassment or a desire to blend in.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Winder was entirely surrounded by reds, leaving the few remaining whites out in the cold. He looked like all the Patricians tended to look after a certain time in office—unpleasantly plump, with the pink jowliness of a man of normal build who had too much rich food. He was sweating slightly in this quite cool room, and his eyes swivelled this way and that, looking for the flaws, the clues, the angles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At last Madam reached the buffet, where Dr Follett was helping himself to the devilled eggs and Miss Rosemary Palm was debating with herself as to whether the future should contain strange pastry things with a green filling that hinted mysteriously of prawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And how are we doing, do we think?” said Dr Follett, apparently to a swan carved out of ice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are doing well,” Madam told a basket of fruit. “There's four, however, that are still proving awkward.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know them,” said the doctor. “They'll fall into place, trust me. What else can they do? We're used to this game here. We know that if you complain too loudly when you lose, you might not be asked to play again. But I shall station some stout friends near them, just in case their resolve needs a little…bolstering.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He is suspicious,” said Miss Palm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When isn't he?” said Dr Follett. “Go and talk to him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where is our new best friend, doctor?” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Snapcase is dining quietly but visibly, in impeccable company, some way away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They turned when the double doors opened. So did several of the other guests, who then turned back hastily. But it was only a servant, who hurried over to Madam and whispered something. She indicated the two military commanders, and the man went to hover anxiously beside them. There was a brief exchange and then, without even a bow towards Lord Winder, all three men went out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall just go and see to the arrangements,” said Madam, and, without in any sense following the men, headed towards the doors.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When she stepped into the hall the two servants waiting by the cake stopped lounging and snapped to attention, and a guard who was patrolling the corridor gave her a quick glance of interrogation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, madam?” said one of the servants.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh. No! Just wait.” She glided over to where the commanders were in animated conversation with a couple of junior officers, and took Lord Venturi's arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear, Charles, are you leaving us so soon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Venturi didn't think of wondering how she knew his first name. The champagne had been plentiful, and he saw no reason at the moment why any attractive woman of a certain age shouldn't know his name.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there are one or two pockets of resistance left,” he said. “Nothing to concern you, Madam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bloody big pocket,” murmured Lord Selachii, into his moustache.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They destroyed Big Mary, sir,” said the luckless messenger. “And they—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Major Mountjoy-Standfast can't outthink a bunch of gormless watchmen and civilians and some veterans with garden forks?” said Lord Venturi, who had no idea of how much damage a garden fork could do if hurled straight down from an elevation of twenty feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's just it, sir, they are veterans and they know all—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the civilians? Unarmed civilians?” said Venturi.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The messenger, who was a sub-lieutenant and very nervous, couldn't find the right words to explain that “unarmed civilian” was stretching a point when it was a 200lb slaughterhouse man with a long hook in one hand and a flensing knife in the other. Young men who'd joined up for the uniform and a bed all to themselves did not expect that kind of treatment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Permission to speak freely, sir?” he tried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The men haven't got the heart for it, sir. They'd kill a Klatchian in a wink, sir, but…well, some of the old soldiers are from the regiment, sir, and they're shouting down all kinds of stuff. A lot of the men come from down there, and it's not good for them. And what some of the old ladies shout, sir, well, I've never heard such language. Dolly Sisters was bad enough, sir, but this is a bit too much. Sorry, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their lordships looked out of the window. There was half a regiment in the palace grounds, men who'd had nothing to do for several days but stand guard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some backbone and a quick thrust,” said Selachii. “That's what's needed, by lo! Lance the boil! This is not a cavalry action, Venturi. And I'll take <em class="calibre8">those</em> men. Fresh blood.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Selachii, we do have orders—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have all kinds of orders,” said Selachii. “But we know where the enemy is, don't we? Aren't there enough guards here? How many guards does one fool need?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We can't just—” Lord Venturi began, but Madam said, “I'm sure Charles will see that no harm comes to his lordship,” and took his arm. “He does have his sword, after all…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few minutes later, Madam glanced out of the window and saw that the troops were quietly moving out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She also noticed, after watching for some time, that the guard patrolling in the hall seemed to have vanished.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36396953" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were rules. When you had a Guild of Assassins, there had to be rules which everyone knew and which were never, ever broken.<a href="#_ftn10" title="10. Sometimes, admittedly, for a given value of “never”."><sup class="calibre11">10</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">An Assassin, a real Assassin, had to look like one—black clothes, hood, boots and all. If they could wear any clothes, any disguise, then what could anyone do but spend all day sitting in a small room with a loaded crossbow pointed at the door?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And they couldn't kill a man incapable of defending himself (although a man worth more than AM$10,000 a year was considered automatically capable of defending himself or at least of employing people to do it for him).</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And they had to give the target a chance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But there was no helping some people. It was regrettable how many rulers of the city had been inhumed by the men in black because they didn't recognize a chance when they saw it, didn't know when they'd gone too far, didn't care that they'd made too many enemies, didn't read the signs, didn't know when to walk away after embezzling a moderate and acceptable amount of cash. They didn't realize it when the machine had stopped, when the world was ripe for change, when it was time, in fact, to spend more time with their family in case they ended up spending it with their ancestors.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, the Guild didn't inhume their rulers on their own behalf. There was a rule about that, too. They were simply there when needed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a tradition, once, far back in the past, called the King of the Bean. A special dish was served to all the men of the clan on a certain day of the year. It contained one small hard-baked bean, and whoever got the bean was, possibly after some dental attention, hailed as King. It was quite an inexpensive system and it worked well, probably because the clever little bald men who actually ran things and paid some attention to possible candidates were experts at palming a bean into the right bowl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And while the crops ripened and the tribe thrived and the land was fertile the King thrived too. But when, in the fullness of time, crops failed and the ice came back and animals were inexplicably barren, the clever little bald men sharpened their long knives, which were mostly used for cutting mistletoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And on the due night, one of them went into his cave and carefully baked one small bean.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, that was before people were civilized. These days, no one had to eat beans.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397017" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">People were <em class="calibre8">still</em> working on the barricade. It had become a sort of general hobby, a kind of group home improvement. Fire buckets, some full of water, some of sand, had turned up. In places the barricade was more impregnable than the city walls, considering how often the latter had been pillaged for stone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were occasional drumbeats down in the city, and the sound of troop movements.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked down. A face had appeared at the top of the ladder leading down to the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Miss Battye? I didn't know you were with us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't intend to be, but suddenly there was this big wall…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She climbed all the way up. She was holding a small bucket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Doctor Lawn presents his compliments and says how come you haven't beaten up anyone yet?” she said, putting it down. “He says he's got three tables scrubbed, two buckets of tar on the boil, six ladies rolling bandages and all he's had to deal with so far is a nose-bleed. You've let him down, he says.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell him ha, ha, ha,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've brought you up some breakfast,” said Sandra, and Vimes realized that down below, doing their not-very-best to remain unseen, were some of the lads. They were sniggering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mushrooms?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said the girl. “I was told to tell you that since it's tomorrow, you're going to get everything you wished for…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For a moment Vimes tensed, not certain where the world was taking him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A hard-boiled egg,” said Sandra. “But Sam Vimes said you probably like the yolk runny and some toast cut up into soldiers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just like he does,” said Vimes weakly. “Good guess, that man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tossed the egg up into the air, expecting to catch it when it came down. Instead, there was a noise like scissors closing and the air rained runny yolk and bits of shell. And then it rained arrows.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397093" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The noise level of the conversation had gone up. Madam moved in on the group around Lord Winder. Magically, within ten seconds they were left alone as all the other people in the group saw people across the room that they really had to talk to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who are yer?” said Winder, his eyes surveying her with that care a man takes when he fears that a woman is carrying concealed weaponry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Madam Roberta Meserole, my lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The one from Genua?” Winder snorted, which was his attempt at a snigger. “I've heard stories about Genua!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could probably tell you a few more, my lord,” said Madam. “But, right now, it's time for the cake.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” said Winder. “Did you know we got another assassin tonight? They keep trying, you know. Eleven years, and still they try. But I get 'em, every time, sneak about though they may.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, my lord,” said Madam. It did help that he was an unpleasant person, ugly clear to the bone. In some ways, it made things easier. She turned, and clapped her hands. Surprisingly, this small noise caused a sudden cessation in the chatter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The double doors at the end of the hall opened, and two trumpeters appeared. They took up positions on either side of the door—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop 'em!” Winder yelled, and ducked. His two guards ran down the hall and grabbed the trumpets from the frightened men. They handled them with extreme care, as if expecting them to explode or issue a strange gas.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Poison darts,” said Winder in a satisfied voice. “Can't be too careful, madam. In this job you learn to watch every shadow. All right, let 'em play. But no trumpets. I 'ate tubes pointed at me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some bewildered conversation at the other end of the hall, and then the bereft trumpeters stood back and whistled as best they could.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Winder laughed as the cake was pushed in. It was in tiers, about man-height, and heavily iced.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lovely,” he said, as the crowd clapped. “I do like some entertainment at a party. And I cut it, do I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took a few steps back and nodded at the bodyguards. “Off you go, boys,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Swords stabbed into the top tier several times. The guards looked at Winder and shook their heads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's such a thing as dwarfs, you know,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stabbed at the second layer, again meeting no more resistance than can be offered by dried fruit and suet and a crust of marzipan with sugar frosting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He could be kneeling down,” said Winder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The audience watched, their smiles frozen. When it became clear that the cake was solid and unoccupied, the food taster was sent for. Most of the guests recognized him. His name was Spymould. He was said to have eaten so much poison in his time that he was proof against anything, and that he ate a toad every day to keep in condition. It was also rumoured that he could turn silver black by breathing on it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He selected a piece of cake and chewed it thoughtfully, staring intently upwards while he did so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm,” he said, after a while.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?” said Winder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, milord,” said Spymould. “Nuffin'. I thought there was a touch of cyanide there but, no luck, it's just the almonds.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No poison at all?” said the Patrician. “You mean it's edible?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes. It'd be all the better for some toad, o'course, but that's just one man's opinion.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps the servants can serve it now, my lord?” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't trust servants serving food,” said Winder. “Sneakin' about. Could slip somethin' in.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you mind if I do it, then, my lord?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, all right,” said Lord Winder, watching the cake carefully. “I'll have the ninth piece you cut.” But in fact he snatched the fifth piece, triumphantly, as if saving something precious from the wreckage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cake was disassembled. Lord Winder's objection to servants handling food withered once the food was headed for other people, and so the party spread out a little as the guests pondered the ancient question of how to hold a plate and a glass and eat at the same time without using one of those little glass-holding things that clip on the side of the plate and make the user look as though they're four years old. This takes a lot of concentration, and that might have been why everyone was so curiously self-absorbed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened. A figure walked into the room. Winder looked up, over the top of his plate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a slim figure, hooded and masked, all in black.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Winder stared. Around him, the conversation rose, and a watcher above might have noticed that the drift of the party tides was such that they were leaving a wide empty path, stretching from the door all the way to Winder, whose legs didn't want to move.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As it strolled towards him the figure reached both hands behind it and they came back each holding a small pistol bow. There were a couple of small <em class="calibre8">tic</em> noises and the bodyguards collapsed gently towards the floor. Then it tossed the bows behind it, and kept coming. Its footfalls made no sound.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Brw?” said Winder, staring. His mouth was open, and stuffed with cake. People chattered on. Somewhere, someone had told a joke. There was laughter, perhaps a shade shriller than might normally be the case. The noise level rose again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Winder blinked. Assassins didn't do this. They snuck around. They used the shadows. This didn't happen in real life. This was how it happened in dreams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now the creature was in front of him. He dropped his spoon, and there was a sudden silence after it clanged on the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was another rule. Wherever possible, the inhumed should be told who the Assassin was, and who had sent him. It was felt by the Guild that this was only fair. Winder did not know this, and it was not widely advertised, but nevertheless, in the midst of terror, eyes wide, he asked the right questions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who sent yer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I come from the city,” said the figure, drawing a thin, silvery sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who are yer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Think of me as…your future.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The figure drew the sword back, but it was too late. Terror's own more subtle knife had done its work. Winder's face was crimson, his eyes were staring at nothing, and coming up from the throat, through the crumbs of cake, was a sound that merged a creak with a sigh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dark figure lowered its sword, watched for a moment in the echoing silence, and then said: “Boo.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It reached out one gloved hand and gave the Patrician a push. Winder went over backwards, his plate dropping from his hand and shattering on the tiles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Assassin held his bloodless sword at arm's length and let it drop on the floor beside the corpse. Then he turned and walked slowly back across the marble floor. He shut the double doors behind him, and the echoes died away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Madam counted slowly to ten before she screamed. That seemed long enough.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397313" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Winder got to his feet, and looked up at the black-clad figure.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Another one? Where did you creep in from?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I DO NOT CREEP.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Winder's mind felt even fuzzier than it had done over the past few years, but he was certain about cake. He'd been eating cake, and now there wasn't any. Through the mists he saw it, apparently close but, when he tried to reach it, a long way away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A certain realization dawned on him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">YES, said Death.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not even time to finish my cake?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">NO. THERE IS NO MORE TIME, EVEN FOR CAKE. FOR YOU, THE CAKE IS OVER. YOU HAVE REACHED THE END OF CAKE.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397350" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">A grapnel thudded into the wall beside Vimes. There were shouts along the barricade. More hooks snaked up and bit into the wood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another rain of arrows clattered on the roofs of the houses. The attackers weren't ready to risk hitting their own side, but arrows were snapping and bouncing in the street below. Vimes heard shouts, and the clang of arrows on armour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A sound made him turn. A helmeted head rose level with his and the face beneath it blanched in terror when it saw Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was my <em class="calibre8">egg</em>, you bastard!” he screamed, punching the nose. “With soldiers!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man fell back, by the sound of it, on to other climbers. Men were yelling all along the parapet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled out his truncheon. “At 'em, lads,” he yelled. “Truncheons! Nothing fancy! Bop 'em on the fingers and let gravity do the work! They're goin' <em class="calibre8">down</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ducked, pressing close to the wood, and tried to find a spyhole—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're using big catapults,” said Sandra, who'd found a gap a few feet away. “There's a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled her away. “What are you doing still up here?” he roared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's safer than the street!” she yelled back, nose to nose with him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not if one of those grapnels hits you it isn't!” He grabbed his knife. “Here, take this…you see a rope anywhere, cut it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He scurried along behind the shelter of the wobbling parapet, but the defenders were doing very well. It wasn't exactly rocket magic, in any case. The people at ground level were firing out through any crack they could find and, while aiming was not easy, it didn't need to be. There is nothing like the zip and zing of arrows around them to make people nervous at their work.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the climbers were too bunched up. They had to be. If they tried attacking on a broad front there'd be three defenders to greet each man. So they were in one another's way, and every falling man would take a couple more down with him, and the barricade was full of little gaps and holes where a defender with a spear could seriously prod those trying to climb up the outside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This is <em class="calibre8">stupid</em>, Vimes thought. It'd take a thousand men to break through, and that'd only be when the last fifty ran up the slope made of the bodies of all the rest of them. Someone out there is doing the old “hit them at their strongest point to show 'em we mean business” thinking. Ye gods, is this how we won our wars?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So how would I have dealt with this? Well, I'd have said “Detritus, remove the barricade” and made sure that the defenders heard me, that's what I'd have done. End of problem.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a scream from further along the parapet. A grapnel had caught one of the watchmen and pulled him hard against the wood. Vimes reached him in time to see a hook dragged into the man's body, through breastplate and mail, as an attacker hauled himself up—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes caught the man's sword arm in one hand and punched him with the other, letting him tumble into the melee below.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The stricken watchman was Nancyball. His face was blue-white, his mouth opened and shut soundlessly, and blood pooled around his feet. It dripped through the planks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's get the bloody thing out—” Wiglet said, grabbing the hook. Vimes pushed him away, as a couple of arrows hummed overhead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That could do <em class="calibre8">more</em> damage. Call up some lads, take him down really <em class="calibre8">carefully</em> and get him to Lawn.” Vimes snatched up Nancyball's truncheon and brought it down on the helmet of another struggling climber.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's still breathing, sarge!” said Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, right,” said Vimes. It was amazing how willing people were to see life in the corpse of a friend. “So make yourself useful and get him down to the doctor.” And, speaking as one who'd seen some stricken men in his time, he mentally added: and if Lawn can sort <em class="calibre8">him</em> out, he can start his own religion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A lucky attacker, who'd achieved the top of the barricade and then found himself horribly alone, slashed desperately at Vimes with his sword. Vimes turned back to business.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397491" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork was good at this, and had become good at it without anyone ever discussing it. Things flowed rather than happened; that is, you'd sometimes have to look quite hard to find the point of change between “hasn't been done yet” and “already taken care of, old boy”. And that was how it was done. Things were taken care of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was twenty minutes before Mr Snapcase arrived and twenty-five minutes before he was duly sworn in as Patrician, had magically become Lord Snapcase and was sitting in the Oblong Office; this included the one minute's silence for the late Lord Winder, whose body had been taken care of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A number of servants were shown the door without any great unpleasantness, and even Spymould was allowed to remove his toad farm in peace. But those who filled the grates and dusted the furniture and swept the floors stayed on, as they had stayed on before, because they seldom paid any attention to, or possibly didn't even know, who their lord was, and in any case were too useful and knew where the brooms were kept. Lords come and go, but dust accumulates.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And it was the morning of a new day which looked, seen from below, quite like the old ones.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while, someone raised the question of the fighting, which clearly needed to be taken care of.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397526" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were scuffles all along the barricade now, but they were going only one way. Siege ladders had been brought up and at several places along the parapet men had managed to climb in. But they could never get enough in one place. There were far more defenders than attackers, and they weren't all men under arms. One thing Vimes was learning fast was the natural vindictiveness of old ladies, who had no sense of fair play when it came to fighting soldiers; give a granny a spear and a hole to jab it through, and young men on the other side were in big trouble.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then there was Reg Shoe's inspired idea of the use of steak dinners as a weapon. The attackers did not come from homes where steak was ever on the table. Meat tended to be the flavouring, not the meal. But here and there men who'd achieved the top of the ladders, in darkness, with the groans and yells of their unsuccessful comrades below them, had their weapons dragged from their hands by well-fed former colleagues who were not unkind and who directed them down the ladder inside for steak and eggs and roast chicken and a promise that every day would be like this, come the revolution.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't want that news to get out, in case there was a rush to invade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the grannies, oh, the grannies…The neighbourhoods of the Republic were a natural recruiting ground for the regiments. It was also an area of big families and matriarchs whose word was family law. It had almost been cheating, putting them on the parapet with a megaphone during the lulls.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I knows you're out there, our Ron! This is your Nan! You climb up one more time and you'll feel the back of my hand! Our Rita sends her love and wants you to hurry home. Grandpa is feeling a lot better with the new ointment! Now stop being a silly boy!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a dirty trick, and he was proud of it. Messages like that sapped a fighting spirit better than arrows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then Vimes realized there were no more men on the ropes and ladders. He could hear yells and groans below, but those soldiers who could stand were withdrawing to a safe distance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now me, thought Vimes, I'd have gone down to the cellars of the houses near the street. Ankh-Morpork is <em class="calibre8">all</em> cellars. And I'd have chipped my way through the rotten walls, and half the cellars on this side of the barricades would have men in them now, nice and snug.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Admittedly last night I had the men nail up and bar every cellar door they could find but, after all, I wouldn't be fighting <em class="calibre8">me</em>, now, would I?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He peered through a gap between planks, and was amazed to see a man walking gingerly forward among the wreckage and the groaning men. He was carrying a white flag, and stopped occasionally to wave it but not to shout “Hurrah!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he was as close as possible to the barricade, he called up: “I say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind his planking, Vimes shut his eyes. <em class="calibre8">Oh gods</em>, he thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He called down: “Yes? Can we help you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Keel, Night Watch. And you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sub-lieutenant Harrap. Er…we ask for a brief truce.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…so that we can recover our wounded.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rules of war, Vimes thought. The field of honour. Good grief…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happens after that? We start fighting again?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…hasn't anyone told you?” said the sub-lieutenant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Told us what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've just heard. Lord Winder is dead. Um. Lord Snapcase is Patrician.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A cheer began among the nearby defenders, and was taken up below. Vimes felt the relief rise. But he wouldn't be Vimes if he just let things lie.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He called out: “So would you like to change ends?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, would your chaps like to have a go at defending the barricade and we can try attacking it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes heard laughter from the defenders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then the young man said: “Um…why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because, correct me if I am wrong, we are now the loyal supporters of the official government and you are the rebellious rump of a discredited administration. Am I right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…I think we did have, um, legitimate orders—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Heard of a man called Captain Swing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He thought he had legitimate orders, too,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Boy, was he surprised. All right, all right. A truce. We agree. Would you like my lads to give you a hand? We've got a doctor here. Very good. I've yet to hear screaming.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…thank you, sir.” The young man saluted. Vimes saluted back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he relaxed, and turned to the defenders. “Okay, lads,” he said. “Stand down. Steal 'em if you haven't got 'em.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shinned down the ladder. Well, then, that was it. It was over. Ring out bells, dance in streets…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge, did you mean that about helping them others with their wounded?” said Sam, who was standing at the bottom of the ladder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it makes as much sense as anything else that's been happening,” said Vimes. “They're city lads just like us, not their fault they were given the wrong orders.” And it messes with their heads, he thought, makes 'em wonder why all this is happening…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only…Nancyball's dead, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a deep breath. He'd known it anyway, up there on the wobbling ramparts, but hearing it said aloud was still a shock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I daresay there's a few of theirs who won't make it through to morning,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but they were the <em class="calibre8">enemy</em>, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's always worth thinking about who your enemy really is,” said Vimes, tugging at the barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How about the man who's trying to stick a sword into you?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a good start,” said Vimes. “But there are times when it pays to be a little less tightly focused.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397758" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the Oblong Office, Snapcase put his hands together and tapped his front teeth with his forefingers. Quite a lot of paperwork was spread in front of him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What to do, what to do,” he said thoughtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A general amnesty is usual, my lord,” said Mr Slant. Mr Slant, as Head of the Guild of Lawyers, had advised many leaders of the city. He was also a zombie, although this had if anything benefited his career. He <em class="calibre8">was</em> precedent. He knew how things should go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, of course,” said Snapcase. “A clean start. Of course. No doubt there is a traditional form of words?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact, my lord, I happen to have a copy right here—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes. Tell me about this barricade, though, will you? The one that was still standing?” He looked up at the crowd assembled in the office.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know about that, sir?” said Follett.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">do</em> have my own informants, you know,” said Snapcase. “It has caused rather a stir, has it not? Some fellow put together a rather smart defence force, cut us off from the vital organs of the city, broke up Captain Swing's organization and has withstood the best attacks that could be made against him. And he is a sergeant, I hear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“May I suggest that a promotion is in order?” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was thinking <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> the same thing,” said Snapcase, his little eyes gleaming. “And then there is the question of his men. Loyal, are they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apparently, sir,” said Madam. She exchanged a puzzled glance with Dr Follett.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snapcase sighed. “On the other hand, a soldier can hardly be punished for loyalty to a senior officer, especially in these difficult times. There is no reason to take formal action against them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Eyes met again. They all felt it, the sense of the world slipping.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But not Keel, however,” said Snapcase, standing up and removing a snuffbox from his waistcoat pocket. “<em class="calibre8">Think</em> about it, I pray you. What ruler could tolerate the existence of such a man? He did all that in just a few days? I dread to think what he might take it into his head to do tomorrow. These are delicate times. Are we to be hostage to every whim of a mere sergeant? We do not need someone like Keel doing things <em class="calibre8">his</em> way. Besides, you know, the Particulars could have been useful to us. Suitably reeducated, obviously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you said you wanted to promote him?” said Dr Follett bluntly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Snapcase took a pinch of snuff, and blinked once or twice. “Yes,” he said. “Promote him, as they say, to glory.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd in the room were silent. One or two of its members were horrified. Some were impressed. You didn't stay at the top in Ankh-Morpork without developing a certain pragmatic approach to life, and Snapcase seemed to have got a grip on that with commendable speed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The barricade is coming down?” said the Patrician, shutting the snuffbox with a click.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, my lord,” said Dr Follett. “Because of the general amnesty,” he added, just to make sure the word was repeated. The Guild of Assassins had a code of honour as well as rules; it was an odd code, carefully constructed to fit their needs, but it was a code none the less. You didn't kill the unprotected, or servants, you did it up close, and you kept your word. This was appalling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Capital,” said Snapcase. “Ideal time. Streets full. Much confusion. Unreconstructed elements, vital message not passed on, left hand not knowing what right hand doing, difficulties of the situation, regrettable. No, my dear doctor, I do not intend to make any demands of your guild. Fortunately, there are those whose loyalty to the city is a little less…conditional. Yes. And now, please, there is much to be done. I shall look forward to meeting you again later.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd were ushered politely but firmly out of the room, and the doors shut behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems we're back at school,” muttered Dr Follett, as they were swept along the corridor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Ave! Duci novo, similis duci seneci,</em>” murmured Mr Slant, drily as only a zombie can manage. “Or, as we used to say at school, ‘<em class="calibre8">Ave! Bossa nova, similis bossa seneca!</em>’” He gave a little schoolmasterly laugh. He felt at home with dead languages. “Of course, grammatically that is completely—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that means…?” said Madam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">‘'Here comes the new boss, same as the old boss,”’ muttered Dr Follett.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I counsel patience,” said Slant. “He's new in the job. He may settle into it. The city is good at working around problems. Give him time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we want someone who is decisive,” said someone in the hurrying crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We wanted someone who decides the right things,” said Madam. She elbowed her way to the front of the crowd, hurried down the main staircase and darted into an anteroom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Miss Palm stood up as she came in. “Have they—” she began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's Havelock?” Madam demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here,” said Vetinari, detaching himself from a shadow by the curtains.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take my coach. Find Keel. Warn him. Snapcase wants him dead!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But where is—” Madam pointed a threatening, trembling finger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do it now or receive an aunt's curse!”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36397953" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the doors were shut Lord Snapcase stared at them for some moments, and then pressed the bell for his chief secretary. The man insinuated himself into the room via the private door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone is settling in?” said Snapcase.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, my lord. There are a number of matters for your attention.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am sure people would like to believe there are,” said Snapcase, leaning back in the chair. He shifted his weight from side to side. “Does this thing swivel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe not, sir, but I shall have a skilled swiveller here within the hour.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Now, what was the other thing…oh, yes. Tell me, are there any up-and-coming men in the Guild of Assassins?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am sure there are, my lord. Would you like me to prepare dossiers on, say, three of them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, my lord. My lord, various people are urgently seeking an audience with—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let them wait. Now that we have the Patricianship, we mean to enjoy it.” Snapcase drummed his fingers on the edge of the desk for a moment, still staring at the doors. Then he said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My inaugural speech is prepared? Very sorry hear unexpected death Winder, overwork, new direction, et cetera, keep best of old while embracing best of new, beware dangerous elements, sacrifices must be made, et cetera, pull together, good of city?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Add that I was particularly sad to hear tragic death Sergeant Keel, hope that fitting memorial to him would be the uniting of citizens of all shades of opinion in an effort to, et cetera, et cetera.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The secretary made a few notes. “Quite, sir,” he said. Snapcase smiled at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect you're wondering why I've taken you on even though you worked for my predecessor, eh?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir,” said the secretary, without looking up. He wasn't wondering firstly because he had a pretty good idea and secondly because there were in any case things he found it safest not to wonder about.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is because I recognize talent whenever it presents itself,” said Snapcase.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is good of you to say so, sir,” said the secretary smoothly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Many a rough stone can be polished into a gem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly, my lord,” said the secretary, and he was thinking <em class="calibre8">Exactly, my lord,</em> too, because he'd also found there were things he found it safest not to think, either, and these included phrases like <em class="calibre8">What a little tit</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where is my new Captain of the Guard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe Captain Carcer is in the rear courtyard, my lord, exhorting the men in no uncertain terms.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell him I want to see him here <em class="calibre8">now</em>,” said Snapcase.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly, sir.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36398066" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">The barricade was taking some while to dismantle. Chair legs and planks and bedsteads and doors and baulks of timber had settled into a tangled mass. Since every piece belonged to someone, and Ankh-Morpork people care about that sort of thing, it was being dismantled by collective argument. This was not least because people who had donated a three-legged stool to the common good were trying to take away a set of dining chairs, and similar problems.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then there was the traffic. Carts that had been held up outside the city were trying to make their way to their destinations before eggs hatched or milk got so rotten it could get out and walk the rest of the way. If Ankh-Morpork had a grid, there would have been gridlock. Since it did not it was, in the words of Sergeant Colon, “a case of no one being able to move because of everyone else”. Admittedly, this phrase, while accurate, did not have the same snap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some of the watchmen had joined in the dismantling work, mostly to stop the fights that were breaking out among irate householders. But a group of them had congregated at the end of Heroes Street, where Snouty had set up a mess and a cocoa urn. There wasn't, in fact, much to do. A few hours ago they'd been fighting. Now the streets were so crowded that even patrols were impossible. Every good copper knows that there are times when the wise man keeps out of the way, and the conversation had turned to the kind of questions that follow victory, such as 1) is there going to be any extra money? and 2) are there going to be any medals? With an option on 3) which was never far from the watchmen's thoughts: are we going to get into trouble about this?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An amnesty means we ain't,” said Dickins. “It means everyone pretends nothing really happened.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, then,” said Wiglet. “Are we going to get medals? What I mean is, if we've been…” he concentrated “…val-i-ant defenders of freedom, that sounds like medal time to me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I reckon we should simply have barricaded the whole city,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, Fred,” said Snouty, “but then that'd mean the bad people, hnah, would be in here with us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, but we'd be in charge,” said Fred.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Dickins puffed on his pipe, and said: “Lads, you're just flapping your mouths. There's been fighting, and here you are with all your arms and legs and walking around in the gods' good sunlight. That's winning, that is. You've won, see. The rest is just gravy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No one spoke for a while until young Sam said: “But Nancyball didn't win.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We lost five men in all,” said Dickins. “Two got hit by arrows, one fell off the barricade and one cut his own throat by accident. It happens.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stared at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you thought it didn't?” said Dickins. “You get a lot of worried people and edged weapons and a lot of scurrying, all in one place. You'd be amazed at the casualties you can get even when you're fifty miles from an enemy. People die.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did Nancyball have a mum?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He was brought up by his gran, but she's dead,” said Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one else?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno. He never talked about them. He never talked about anything much,” said Wiglet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What you do is, you have a whip-round,” said Dickins firmly. “Wreath, coffin, the lot. You don't let anyone else do it. And another thing…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat a little way from the men, watching the street. There were groups of former defenders and veterans and watchmen everywhere. He watched a man buy a pie from Dibbler, and shook his head, and grinned. On a day when you couldn't give steak away, some people would still buy a pie from Dibbler. It was a triumph of salesmanship and the city's famously atrophied taste buds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The song began. Whether it was a requiem or a victory chant he didn't know, but Dickins started it and the rest joined in, each man singing as though he was all by himself and unaware of the rest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">see the little angels rise up high…</em>” Others were picking up the tune.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg Shoe was also sitting all alone, on a piece of barricade currently not in dispute, still clutching the flag and looking so miserable that Vimes felt moved to go and speak to him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">do they rise up, rise up, rise up, how do they rise up, rise up high?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It could have been good, sergeant,” said Reg, looking up. “It really could. A city where a man can breathe free.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">they rise ARSE up, arse up, arse up, see the little angels rise up high…</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wheeze free, Reg,” said Vimes, sitting down next to him. “This <em class="calibre8">is</em> Ankh-Morpork.” And they all hit that line together, thought the part of him that was listening with the other ear. Strange that they should do that, or maybe not.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, make a joke of it. Everyone thinks it's funny,” said Reg, looking at his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know if this'll help, Reg, but I didn't even get my hard-boiled egg,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what's going to happen next?” said Reg, far too sunk in misery to sympathize or, for that matter, notice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">All the little angels rise up, rise up</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I really don't know. Things'll get better for a while, I expect. But I don't know what I'm—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped. On the far side of the street, oblivious of the traffic, a little wizened old man was sweeping dust out of a doorway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood up and stared. The little man saw him, and gave him a wave. And at that moment yet another cart rumbled down the road, piled high with former barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes flung himself flat and stared between the legs and wheels. Yes, the slightly bandy legs and the battered sandals were still there, and still there too when the cart had passed, and still there when Vimes started to run across the street, and may have been there when the unregarded following cart almost knocked him over, and were completely not there when he straightened up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood where they had been, in the busy street, on the sunny morning, and felt the night sweep over him. He felt the hairs stand up on his neck. The conversations around him grew louder, became a clamour in his ears. And the light was too bright. There were no shadows, and he was looking for shadows now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He dodged and jinked across the street to the singing men, and waved them into silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get ready,” he growled. “Something's going to happen…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, sarge?” said Sam.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something not good, I think. An attack, maybe.” Vimes scanned the street for…what? Little old men with brooms? If anything, the scene was less menacing than before the troubles, because now the other shoe had dropped. People weren't standing around waiting for it any more. There was a general bustle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No offence, sarge,” said Dickins, “but it all looks peaceful enough to me. There's an <em class="calibre8">amnesty</em>, sarge. No one's fighting anyone.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge! Sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They all turned. Nobby Nobbs was sidling and skipping down the street. They saw his lips shape a message, completely drowned out by the squeals from a wagonload of pigs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lance-Constable Sam Vimes looked at the face of his sergeant. “Something <em class="calibre8">is</em> wrong,” he said. “Look at sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, what?” said Fred Colon. “A giant bird's going to drop out of the sky or something?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a thud, and a gasp from Wiglet. An arrow had hit him in the chest and had gone right through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another one smacked into the wall above Vimes's head, showering dust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In here!” he yelled. The door to the shop behind them was open, and he plunged through. People piled in behind him. He heard the noise of arrows outside, and one or two screams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Amnesty, sergeant?” he said. Outside, the rumbling carts had stopped, blocking out the light to the bullseye panes of the shop windows and temporarily shielding it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then it's got to be some idiots,” said Dickins. “Rebels, maybe.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why? There were never that many rebels, we <em class="calibre8">know</em> that! Anyway, they won!” Now there was shouting outside, beyond the carts. Nothing like a cart for blocking the road…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Counter-revolutionaries, then?” Dickins suggested.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, people who want to put Winder back in charge?” said Vimes. “Well, I don't know about you, but <em class="calibre8">I'd</em> join.” He looked around the shop. It was packed wall to wall. “Who are all these people?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You said ‘in here’, sergeant,” said a soldier.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, and we didn't need telling 'cos it was raining arrows,” said another soldier.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't mean to come but I couldn't swim against the tide,” said Dibbler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want to show solidarity,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge, sarge, it's me, sarge!” said Nobby, waving his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A firm, authoritative voice, thought Vimes. It's amazing the trouble it can get you into. There were about thirty people crowded into the shop, and he didn't recognize half of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can I help any of you gentlemen?” said a thin, querulous little voice behind him. He turned and saw a very small, almost doll-like old lady, all in black, cowering behind her counter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked desperately at the shelves behind her. They were piled with skeins of wool.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, I don't think so,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then do you mind if I finish serving Mrs Soupson? Four ounces of grey two-ply was it, Mrs Soupson?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes please, Ethel!” quavered a tiny, frightened voice somewhere in the middle of the crowd of armed men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'd better get out of here,” muttered Vimes. He turned to the men and waved his hands frantically to suggest that, as far as possible, no one should upset any old ladies. “Do you have a back way, please?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The shopkeeper's innocent old eyes looked up at him. “It helps if people buy something, sergeant,” she said meaningfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, we, um…” Vimes looked around desperately, and inspiration struck. “Ah, right, yes…I'd like a mushroom,” he said. “You know, one of those wooden things for—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant, I know. That will be sixpence, thank you, sergeant. I always like to see a gentleman ready to do it for himself, I must say. Could I interest you in a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm in a big hurry, please!” said Vimes. “I've got to darn all my socks.” He nodded at the men, who responded heroically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me, too—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Full of holes, it's disgusting!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got to patch them up right now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's me, sarge, Nobby, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You could use mine for fishing nets!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lady unhooked a big key ring. “I think it's this one, no, I tell a lie, I think it's, no…wait a moment…ah, yes, this is the one…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, sarge, there's a bunch of men with crossbows in the street,” said Fred Colon, from the window. “About fifty of 'em!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…no, that's the one, dear me, that's for the lock we used to have…does this one look right to you? Let's try this one…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Very carefully, and very slowly, she unlocked and unbolted the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes poked his head out. They were in an alley, filled with trash and old boxes and the horrible smell of alleys everywhere. No one seemed to be around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, everybody out,” he said. “We need a bit of space. Who's got a bow?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just me, sarge,” said Dickins. “It's not like we were expecting trouble, see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One bow against fifty men, that's bad odds,” said Vimes. “Let's get out of here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are they after us, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They shot Wiglet, didn't they? Let's move!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They scuttled along the alleyway. As they crossed a wider one, there was the distant sound of the shop door being kicked open again, and a gleeful shout.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I got you now, Duke!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">An arrow clattered off a wall and pinwheeled end over end along the alley.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had run before. Every watchman knew about running. They called it the Backyard Handicap. Vimes had taken that route many times, ducking through alleys, leaping on wings of terror over the walls from one dog-infested yard to the next, falling into the chicken runs and slipping down privy roofs, looking for safety or his mates or, failing that, somewhere to stand with his back to the wall. Sometimes you had to run.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, like the herd, you stayed together by instinct. In a crowd of thirty or so, you were harder to hit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, Dickins had taken the lead. The old coppers were best at running, having run so much during their lives. As on the battlefield, only the cunning and the fast survived.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And so he didn't bother to stop as the cart appeared at the end of the alley. It was a heggler's wagon, probably trying to take a short cut and escape the “no one being able to move because of everyone else” chaos in the main streets. The man, the back of his wagon piled ten feet high with boxes, his vehicle scraping the walls, looked in horror at the stampede heading for him. No one had any brakes and absolutely no one was going to go backwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes, in the rear, watched the group flow over and under the wagon, to the splintering of boxes and the pop of exploding eggs. The horse danced in the shafts and men dived through its legs or clear over its back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When Vimes reached it he clambered on to the box just as an arrow hit the woodwork. He grinned desperately at the driver.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Jump,” he suggested, and smacked the horse on the flank with the flat of his sword. Both men were thrown back as it reared and sent the remains of the stricken load sliding off the wagon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hauled the driver upright as soon as the debris stopped falling. He was covered in egg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry about that, sir. Watch business. Ask for Sergeant Keel. Got to rush!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind them the wagon rattled up the alley, wheel rims knocking sparks off the walls. There were doorways and side alleys to escape into, but Carcer's crew would certainly be slowed down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rest of <em class="calibre8">his</em> crew had stopped when they heard the noise, but Vimes piled into them and forced them on until they reached a road, blocked with carts and thronged with people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you got your soldiers covered in egg, sarge,” said Sam, with a worried grin. “What's all that about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's some of the Unmentionables,” said Vimes. “Probably want to settle the score.” Well, that was close enough.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I saw watchmen and soldiers with 'em,” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge, it's me, sarge! <em class="calibre8">Please</em>, sarge!” Nobby elbowed his way through the men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this a good time, Nobby?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's men after you, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, Nobby!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carcer, sarge! He's got a job with Snapcase! Captain of the Palace Guard, sarge! And they gonna <em class="calibre8">get</em> you! Snapcase told 'em to, sarge! My mate Scratch'n'Sniff is the under-bootboy at the palace and he was in the yard and heard 'em talking, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I should have known, Vimes thought. Snapcase was a devious devil. And now Carcer's got his feet under another bastard's table. Captain of the Guard…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I haven't been making a lot of friends lately,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, gentlemen, I'm going to run. If you lot melt away into the crowd you'll be fine, I expect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No fear, sarge,” said Sam, and there was a general murmur of agreement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We had an <em class="calibre8">amnesty</em>,” said Dickins. “They can't do this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, they were shooting at everyone,” said one of the soldiers. “Bastards! They need a good going-over!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They've got bows,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So we ambush 'em, sarge,” said Dickins. “Choose your ground and fight up close and a crossbow's just a piece of wood.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did any of you hear me?” said Vimes. “They're after <em class="calibre8">me</em>. Not you. You do <em class="calibre8">not</em> want to mix it with Carcer. You, Snouty, you shouldn't be doing this at your time of life.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The old jailer glared at him through runny eyes. “That's a hell of a thing for you, hnah, to say to me, sarge,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do we know he won't decide to come after us anyway?” said Dickins. “An amnesty's an amnesty, right? They can't do this!” There was a general chorus on the lines of “Yeah, that's right!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It's happening, Vimes thought. They are talking themselves right into it. But what can I do? We've got to face 'em. I've got to face 'em. I've got to face Carcer. The thought of leaving him here, with all he knows…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How about if we head down Cable Street?” said Dickins. “Lots of little alleyways off there. They'll go rushing along, thinking we've bolted for the Watch House, and we'll 'ave 'em! We ain't standing for this, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Okay,' he said. Thank you. You're of one mind?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a cheer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I won't make a speech,” said Vimes. “There isn't time. I'll just say this. If we don't win this, if we don't see them off…well, we've got to, that's all. Otherwise it'll be…very bad for this city. Very bad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right,” Dickins cut in, insistently. “There was an <em class="calibre8">amnesty</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But, look,” said one of the soldiers. “I don't know half the men here. If we're going to close in, we want to know who's on our side…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, hnah,” said Snouty. “I mean, some of them chasing us was <em class="calibre8">watchmen</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised his eyes. The wide alley in front of them, known as Lobsneaks, stretched all the way to Cable Street. It was lined with gardens, and there were purple flowers on the bushes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The morning air smelled of lilac.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I recall a battle once,” said Dickins, looking up at a tree. “In history, it was. And there was this company, see, and they was a ragtag of different squads and all covered in mud in any case, and they found themselves hiding in a field of carrots. So as a badge they all pulled up carrots and stuck them on their helmets, so's they'd know who their friends were and incidentally have a nourishing snack for later, which is never to be sneezed at on a battlefield.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well? So what?” said Dibbler.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So what's wrong with a lilac flower?” said Dickins, reaching up and pulling down a laden branch. “Makes a spanking plume, even if you can't eat it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now, Vimes thought, it ends.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think they are very bad men!” said a high, rather elderly but nevertheless determined voice from somewhere in the crowd, and there was a glimpse of a skinny hand waving a knitting needle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I shall need a volunteer to escort Mrs Soupson home,” he said.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36398742" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer surveyed the length of Lobsneaks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like we just follow the trail of egg,” he said. “Looks like Keel has a yellow streak.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It didn't get quite the laugh he'd expected. A lot of the men he'd been able to collect had a more physical sense of humour. But Carcer had, in his own way, some of Vimes's qualities, only they were inverted. A certain kind of man looks up to someone who's brave enough to be really bad.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are we going to get into trouble for this, captain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And of course, you got those who were just along for the ride. He turned to Sergeant Knock, with Corporal Quirke lurking behind him. He fully shared Vimes's view of them although he approached it, as it were, from the other direction. You couldn't trust either of them. But they hated Keel with that gnawing, nerve-sapping hatred that only the mediocre can really bring to bear, and that was useful.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you think we're going to get into <em class="calibre8">trouble</em>, sergeant?” he said. “We're working for the <em class="calibre8">government</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a devious devil, sir!” said Knock, as if this was a character flaw in a copper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now you lot listen to me, right?” said Carcer. “No mess-ups this time! I want Keel alive, okay? And that kid Vimes. You can do what the hell you like to the rest of them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why d'you want him taken alive?” said a quiet voice behind Carcer. “I thought Snapcase wanted him dead. And what's the kid done that's so wrong?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer turned. To his mild surprise, the watchman behind him didn't flinch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's your name, mister?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Coates.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ned's the one I told you about, sir,” said Knock urgently, leaning over Carcer's shoulder. “Keel gave him the push, sir, after—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up,” said Carcer, without taking his eyes off Coates. There wasn't a hint of fear there, not even a glimmer of bravado. Coates just stared back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you just come along for the ride, Coates?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, captain. I don't like Keel. But Vimesy is just a kid that got dragged along. What're you going to do to him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer leaned forward; Coates did not lean back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were a rebel, weren't you?” he said. “Don't like to do what you're told, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're going to get a big bottle of ginger beer!” said a voice drunk with evil delight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer turned and looked down at the skinny, black-clad Ferret. He was somewhat battered, partly because he'd put up a fight when the watchmen had tried to pry him out of his cell, and mostly because Todzy and Muffer had been waiting outside. But he'd been allowed to live; beating something like Ferret to death was, to the other two, an embarrassing and demeaning waste of fist.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He certainly flinched under Carcer's gaze. His whole body was a flinch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did I ask you to speak, you little dog's tonker?” Carcer enquired.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nosir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Remember that. It could save your life one day.” Carcer turned his attention back to Ned. “Okay, sunshine, this is the bright new dawn you wanted. You asked for it, you got it. We've just got to sweep away a few of yesterday's leftovers. By order of Lord Snapcase, your mate. And it ain't your job to ask why and who, but young Vimesy? Why, I think he's a game lad who'll be a credit to the city if he's kept out of the way of bad company. Now, Knock says you're good at thinking. So now you tell me what you think Keel's gonna do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ned gave him a look that went on for slightly longer than Carcer felt comfortable with.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a defender,” he said, eventually. “He'll be back at the Watch House. He'll set a few traps, get the men tooled up and wait for you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah?” said Carcer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He doesn't like to see his men hurt,” said Ned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is not going to be his day, then,” said Carcer.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36398872" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Halfway down Cable Street was a barricade. It wasn't much. A few doors, a table or two…by the standards of the big one that was even now being turned back into unbelligerent dining-room furniture, it barely existed at all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer's informal crew walked slowly, staring up at buildings and into the mouths of alleys. People in the street fled at their approach. Some men walk in a way that projects bad news ahead of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes crouched behind the makeshift wall and peered through a crack. They'd snatched a few crossbows from aimless soldiers on the way here, but by the look of it Carcer's men had at least fifteen between them. And they outnumbered the lilac lads two to one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If push came to shove, he'd take Carcer out right now. It wasn't the way it ought to go. He wanted people to see the man hang, he wanted <em class="calibre8">the city</em> to execute him. Going back empty-handed would leave a loose end flapping.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard the sound of sobbing from further along the barricade. It wasn't young Sam, he knew, and Nobby Nobbs had probably cried all the tears a body was capable of some time ago. It was Reg. He sat with his back to the makeshift defence, the threadbare flag across his knees, and tears dripping off his chin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Reg, you ought to go,” Vimes hissed. “You don't even have a weapon.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's the good of it, eh?” said Reg. “You were bloody right, sarge! Things just go round and round! You got rid of the bloody Unmentionables and here they are again! What's the point, eh? This city could be such a great place but <em class="calibre8">no</em>, oh no, the bastards always end up on top! Nothing ever bloody changes! They just take their money and mess us around!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer had stopped twenty yards from the barricade, and was watching it carefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Way of the world, Reg,” murmured Vimes, counting enemies under his breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And a big covered cart came around the corner, rocking under its load. It rolled to a halt a little way from Carcer's crew, partly because the way was blocked but mostly, perhaps, because one of the men had walked up to the driver and aimed a crossbow at his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now the bloody bastards have won,” moaned Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Every day of the week, Reg,” said Vimes absently, trying to follow the movements of too many people at once.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other men were spreading out. After all, they had the firepower.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man holding up Mr Dibbler, the cart driver, wasn't paying too much attention. Now Vimes wished he'd put himself in the wagon. Oh, well, someone had to start the rumble—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah? You want to shoot something? Bastards!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They all stared, Carcer too. Reg had stood up, was waving the flag back and forth, was clambering over the barricade…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He held the flag like a banner of defiance. “You can take our lives but you'll never take our freedom!” he screamed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer's men looked at one another, puzzled by what sounded like the most badly thought-out war cry in the history of the universe. Vimes could see their lips moving as they tried to work it out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer raised his crossbow, gestured to his men, and said: “Wrong!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg was hit by five heavy bolts so that he did a little dance before falling to his knees. It happened in seconds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened his mouth to give the order to charge, and shut it when he saw Reg raise his head. In silence, using the flag pole as an aid, Reg got back to his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Three more arrows hit him. He looked down at his skinny chest, bristling with feathers, and took a step forward. And another.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the crossbowmen drew his sword and ran at the stricken man, and was knocked into the air by a blow from Reg that must have felt like it had come from a sledgehammer. And in the ranks of the crew there was a fight. Someone in a copper's uniform had drawn his own sword and taken out two bowmen. And the man at the cart was running back to the action…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get them!” Vimes yelled, and leapt the barricade.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no plan any more. Dickins and his men poured out of the cart. There were still loaded crossbows out there, but a bow is suddenly not the weapon you want to be holding when angry swords are approaching from both directions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">It'll come when you call…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">All plans, all futures, all politics…were elsewhere. Vimes scooped up a fallen sword and with a weapon in either hand screamed wordless defiance and launched himself at the nearest enemy. The man went down headless.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He saw Snouty go down in the melee, and sprang over him to catch his attacker in a windmill of blades. And then he spun around to confront Knock, who dropped his sword and fled. And Vimes ran on, not fighting but hacking, ducking strokes without seeing them, blocking attacks without turning his head, letting the ancient senses do their work. Someone was slicing towards young Sam; Vimes brought a sword down on the arm in true self-defence. He moved on, in the centre of a widening circle. He wasn't an enemy, he was a nemesis.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And as suddenly as it had come the beast withdrew, leaving an angry man with two swords.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer had retreated to the side of the street, with his men—far fewer men now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon was on his knees, throwing up. Dickins was down, and Vimes knew he was dead. Nobby was down too, but that was just because someone had kicked him hard and he'd probably decided that staying down was best. There were a lot of Carcer's men down, more than half. Some more had fled a maniac with two swords. Some had even fled Reg Shoe, who was sitting on the barricade, staring at the sheer weight of arrows in him. As he watched, his brain seemingly decided that he must be dead on this evidence, and he fell backwards. But in a few hours, his brain would be in for a surprise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No one knew why some people became natural zombies, substituting sheer stubborn will power for blind life force. But attitude played a part. For Reg Shoe, life was only just beginning…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Young Sam was upright. He looked as though he'd thrown up, but he'd done well to survive his first real melee. He gave Vimes a weak smile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happening now, sarge?” he managed, taking off his helmet and wiping his forehead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sheathed a sword and quietly slipped one of Mrs Goodbody's little friends out of his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That depends on what happens over there,” he said, nodding towards the other end of the street. Sam obediently turned to look, and fell asleep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pocketed the cosh, and saw Coates looking at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose side are you on, Ned?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did you hit the kid for?” said Ned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So he's out of it. You got anything to say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not much, sarge.” Ned grinned. “We're all learning a lot today, ain't we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">"True enough,' said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's even bigger bastards than you, for a start.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This time Vimes grinned. “But I try harder, Ned.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know Carcer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a murderer. And just about everything else, too. A stone-cold killer. With brains,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is going to go the distance?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep. It's got to. We've got to stop this, Ned. This is the only chance. It stops here or not at all. Can you imagine him loose now he's pally with Snapcase?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. I can,” said Ned. “Just as well I wasn't planning anything this evening, eh? But you can tell me one thing, sarge. How do you know all this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated. But at a time like this, what difference did it make?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm from this city,” said Vimes. “But, oh, there was a hole in time, something like that. You want to know? I travelled here in time, Ned, and that's the truth.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ned Coates looked him up and down. Blood covered Vimes's armour, and his hands, and half his face, and he was holding a bloody sword in his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“From how far back?” he said.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36399136" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Time stopped. Coates froze and faded in colour, into a world made up of shades of grey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nearly there, your grace,” said Sweeper, behind Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ye gods!” yelled Vimes, flinging his sword to the ground. “You are <em class="calibre8">not</em> making any friends here, you know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sword hadn't hit the ground. It hung a few inches from his hands, and had faded to greyness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's just a few things we need to tell you,” said Sweeper, as if a sword in mid-air was a minor consideration.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happened to the bloody sword?” said Vimes, to whom it wasn't.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Time has stopped for everyone but you,” said Sweeper patiently. “Actually that sentence is wrong in every particular, but it's quite a useful lie. It'll just take us a moment to set things up…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now Vimes had time, of some kind, to look around. The whole street was darker, as if the fight had been taking place in the half-light just before dawn. The only colour was in the robes and faces of Sweeper and Qu as they manoeuvred a handcart out of an alley. It held a couple of small stone columns, and the body of John Keel, wrapped in a shroud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have some good news,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You have?” said Vimes weakly. He walked over to the body.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed,” said Qu, unshipping the stone cylinders. “We thought we might have to persuade you to remove all your armour but you will not, I think, need to do this.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's because it will stay here,” said Lu-Tze. “Belongs here, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Vimes, “I don't know what the hell you're talking about.” He touched the body. “So cold,” he said. “That's what I remember. He was so cold.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A morgue does that to people,” said Sweeper, in a matter-of-fact voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now please pay attention, commander,” said Qu. “When we operate the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked up, violence in his eyes. Sweeper laid a hand on Qu's arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've got things to do for a minute or two,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but it's vital that he knows how—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've got <em class="calibre8">things</em> to <em class="calibre8">do</em> for a <em class="calibre8">minute</em> or <em class="calibre8">two</em>,” Sweeper repeated, making a face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? What? Oh. Yes. Er…we've got, er…things. To do. Things to do…er…things.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They wandered away. Out of the corner of his eye Vimes saw them walking back and forth across the street, as if taking measurements.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked back at John Keel. But what could you say? Sorry you're dead? Keel had originally died on the barricades, not in a street fight. But he was just as dead, all the same.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was hazy on religion. He attended Watch funerals and went to such religious events as the proper fulfilling of the office of Commander entailed, but as for the rest…well, you saw things sometimes that made it impossible to believe not only in gods, but also in common humanity and your own eyes. From what he could remember, Keel had felt the same way. You got on with things. If there were any gods, you expected them to get on with things, too, and didn't interrupt them while they were working.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What could you say to a dead copper? What would <em class="calibre8">he</em> want said?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ah…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He leaned closer. “Carcer's going to bloody swing for this,” he said, and stood back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind him, Sweeper coughed theatrically. “Ready, your grace?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ready enough,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were telling you about the armour,” said Sweeper. “It'll—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The thing is, commander,” Qu interrupted, “that you and this fellow Carcer and all the clothes and possessions you arrived with form an elongated trans-time anomaly, which is under considerable tension.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned and looked at Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's very, very hard to move things out of the time where they belong but it takes much less effort to move them back to where they were,” Sweeper translated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes carried on staring.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everything really, really wants to stay where it should be,” Sweeper tried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're right there,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All we do is…grease the way,” said Sweeper. “We give a little push, and it'll all snap back. And away you go. Have you had anything to eat this morning?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shouldn't be too messy, then,” said Sweeper. When Vimes looked puzzled he went on: “Undigested food. It'll stay here, you see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean it'll come tearing out of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no, no,” said Qu, quickly. “You won't notice. But a nourishing meal when you get back would be a good idea.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the armour stays here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Qu beamed. “Yes, your grace. Everything. Eyepatch, socks, everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Boots, too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about my drawers?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, those too. Everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So I'll arrive in the <em class="calibre8">nuddy</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The one costume that's in fashion anywhere,” said Sweeper, grinning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then why did all my armour arrive with me when I came?” said Vimes. “And damn Carcer had his knives, that's for sure!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Qu opened his mouth, but Sweeper answered faster.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It takes a thousand steps to get to the top of a mountain but one little hop'll take you all the way back to the bottom,” he said. “Okay?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I suppose it makes sen—” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That isn't how it works at all, Lu-Tze!” wailed Qu.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” said Sweeper, “but it's another good lie. Look, commander, we don't have a damn great thunderstorm and we don't have enough stored time. This is a field operation. It's the best we can do. We'll get you back, and your prisoner, although you almost certainly won't arrive in the same place, 'cos of quantum. It's hard enough making sure you don't arrive two hundred feet in the air, believe me. Pushing all your clothes as well, when they belong here, that just takes too much power. Now, are you ready? You need to go back to where you were standing. Get to Carcer as soon as you can. You <em class="calibre8">must</em> grab him, otherwise he'll stay behind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, but I've changed lots of things!” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leave that to us,” said Sweeper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about Keel?” said Vimes, walking away with reluctance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't <em class="calibre8">worry</em>. We <em class="calibre8">told</em> you at the temple. We'll put him in your armour. He'll have died in battle.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Make sure nothing happens to young Sam!” said Vimes, as Qu carefully prodded him into position. The little stone columns began to spin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Make sure Reg Shoe gets a decent burial!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not too deep, he'll be wanting to come out again in a few hours!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Qu gave him a last prod.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">Goodbye</em>, commander!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Time came back.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36399444" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ned was looking at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happened just then, sarge? You <em class="calibre8">blurred</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You only get one question, Ned,” said Vimes, fighting the moment of nausea. “Now, let's show Snapcase where the line's drawn, shall we? Let's finish it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They charged, the men falling in behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes remembered in slow motion. Some of Carcer's men ran at the sight of them, some raised their hastily reclaimed weapons, and Carcer stood there and grinned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes headed for him, ducking and weaving through the fight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man's expression changed as Vimes approached. Vimes was speeding up, shoulder-charging and thrusting other bodies away. Carcer raised his sword and took a stance, but there was no room for finesse in the melee and Vimes closed like a bull, knocking the sword up and grabbing Carcer by the throat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're <em class="calibre8">nicked</em>, my ol' chum,” he said. And then it all went black.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36399487" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">He felt, later on, that there should have been more to it. There should have been rushing blue tunnels, or flashes, or the sun should have shot round and round the sky. Even pages tearing off a calendar and fluttering away would have been <em class="calibre8">something</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But it was just the blackness of the deepest sleep, followed by pain as he hit the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt arms reach down and haul him to his feet. He shook them off as soon as he was upright, and focused, through the bleary mist, on the face of Captain Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good to see you, sir. Oh, dear—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm fine,” croaked Vimes, through a throat that felt stuffed with sand. “Where's Carcer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've got a nasty cut on—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? I'm amazed,” growled Vimes. “Now, where the <em class="calibre8">hell</em> is <em class="calibre8">Carcer</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't know, sir. You just appeared in mid-air and landed on the floor. In a lot of blue light, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” muttered Vimes. “Well, he's come back somewhere. Somewhere close, probably.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir, I'll tell the men to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, don't,” said Vimes. “He'll keep. After all, where's he going to go?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wasn't too sure of his legs. They felt as though they belonged to someone with a very poor sense of balance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long was I…away?” he said. Ponder Stibbons stepped forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“About half an hour, your grace. Er, we have, er, hypothesized that there was some temporal disturbance, which, coupled with the lightning stroke and a resonance in the standing wave of the Library, caused a space-time rupture—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, it felt something like that,” said Vimes hurriedly. “Half an hour, did you say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did it feel longer?” said Ponder, taking out a notebook.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit,” Vimes conceded. “Now, has anyone here got a pair of drawers I—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre8">I can see your house from up here…</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">That was Carcer. He liked you to stew, to use your imagination.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vimes had said: where's he going to go?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain, I want you and every man you can spare, every damn man, to get up to my house right now, understand,” he said. “Just do it. Just do it <em class="calibre8">now</em>.” He turned to Ridcully. “Archchancellor, can you get me there faster?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Watch wants <em class="calibre8">magical</em> assistance?” said the Archchancellor, taken aback.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, but you realize that you have no clothes on—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave up. People always wanted <em class="calibre8">explanations</em>. He set off, overruling the jelly in his legs, running out of the octangle and across the lawns until he reached the University's Bridge of Size, where he sped past Nobby and Colon who were drawn into the wake of watchmen running to keep up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the other side of the bridge was the garden known as the Wizard's Pleasaunce. Vimes ploughed through it, twigs whipping at his bare legs, and then he was out and on to the old towpath, mud splashing up over the blood. Then right and a left, past amazed bystanders, and then there were the catshead cobbles of Scoone Avenue under his feet and he found the wind to accelerate a little. He didn't slow until he reached the gravel drive, and almost collapsed at the front door, hanging on to the bell pull.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were hurrying feet, and the door was wrenched open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you're not Willikins,” growled Vimes, focusing, “there's going to be trouble!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your grace! Whatever has happened to you?” said the butler, pulling him into the hall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing!” said Vimes. “Just get me a fresh uniform, nice and quietly, and don't let Sybil know—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He read everything in the way the butler's face changed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">What's happened to Sybil?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Willikins backed away. A bear would have backed away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't go up there, sir! Mrs Content says it's…all rather difficult, sir. Things aren't, um, happening quite right…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is the child born?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No sir, a-apparently not, sir. It's rather…Mrs Content says she's trying everything but maybe we…ought to send for the doctors, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For a <em class="calibre8">childbirth</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Willikins looked down. After twenty unflappable years as butler, he was shaking now. No one deserved a confrontation with Sam Vimes at a time like this.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sir…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!” snapped Vimes. “Don't send for a doctor. I know a doctor! And he knows all about…this sort of thing! He'd better!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ran back outside in time to see a broomstick touch down on the lawn, piloted by the Archchancellor himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought I'd better come along anyway,” said Ridcully. “Is there anything—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes swung himself on to it before the wizard could get off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take me to Twinkle Street. Can you do that?” he said. “It's…important!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hang on, your grace,” said Ridcully, and Vimes's stomach dropped into his legs as the stick climbed vertically. He made a small mental note to promote Buggy Swires and buy him the buzzard he'd always wanted. Anyone prepared to do this every day for the good of the city couldn't be paid too much.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Try my left pocket,” said Ridcully, when they were well aloft. “There's something that belongs to you, I believe.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nervously, well aware of what a wizard's pocket might hold, Vimes pulled out a bunch of paper flowers, a string of flags of all nations…and a silver cigar case.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Landed on the Bursar's head,” said the Archchancellor, steering around a seagull. “I hope it's not damaged.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's…fine,” said Vimes. “Thank you. Er…I'll put it back for now, shall I? Don't seem to have any pockets on me at the moment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It found its way back, Vimes thought. We're home.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And a suit of ornamental armour landed in the High Energy Magic building,” Ridcully went on, “and, I am happy to report, it is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very badly bent out of shape?” said Vimes. Ridcully hesitated. He was aware of Vimes's feelings of gilt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excessively, your grace. Completely bent out of shape because of quantum thingummies, I suspect,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shivered. He was still naked. Even the hated formal uniform would have helped up here. But it didn't matter either way, now. Gilt and feathers and badges and feeling chilly…there were other things that mattered more, and always would.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He jumped off the stick before it had stopped, stumbled in a circle and fell against Dr Lawn's door, hammering on it with his fists.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while it opened a crack and a familiar voice, changed only a little with age, said “Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thrust the door fully open. “Look at me, Doctor Lawn,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn stared. “Keel?” he said. In his other hand he was holding the world's biggest syringe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't be. They buried John Keel. You know they did,” said Vimes. He saw the huge instrument in the man's hand. “What the hell were you going to do with that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Baste a turkey, as a matter of fact. Look, who are you, then, because you look like—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Grab all your midwifing stuff and come with me now,” said Vimes. “All those funny tools you said worked so well. Bring 'em all. Right now. And I'll make you the richest doctor that ever lived,” said Vimes, a man wearing nothing but mud and blood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn gestured weakly towards the kitchen. “I'll just have to take the turkey out—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stuff the turkey!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I already—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The broomstick did not fly well with three on board, but it was faster than walking and Vimes at this point knew he'd be incapable of anything else. He was out of breath and strength by the time he got home the first time. Now merely standing upright was a test of endurance. It was the broomstick or crawling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It lumbered down out of the sky and landed unsteadily on the lawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady upstairs, big bedroom on left,” said Vimes, pushing vaguely at the doctor. “Midwife there, not got a clue. All the money you want. Go on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn hurried off. Vimes, helped by Ridcully, followed rather more stiffly, but as they reached the door the doctor came out walking backwards very slowly. It became apparent, as he emerged, that this was because Detritus's huge crossbow was pressed against his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When Vimes spoke his voice was slightly muffled, because he was lying flat on the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Put the bow <em class="calibre8">down</em>, sergeant,” he managed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He come rushin' in, Mister Vimes,” rumbled Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's because he's the <em class="calibre8">doctor</em>, sergeant. Let him go upstairs. That is an order, thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, Mister Vimes,” said Detritus, stepping aside with reluctance and shouldering the bow. At which point, the bow discharged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the thunder had died away Vimes got up and looked around. He hadn't actually liked the shrubbery very much. That was just as well. Nothing remained but some tree trunks, and they were all stripped of bark down one side. There were a few small fires.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sorry about that, Mister Vimes,” said the troll.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did I tell you about Mister Safety Catch?” said Vimes weakly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When Mister Safety Catch Is Not On, Mister Crossbow Is Not Your Friend,” recited Detritus, saluting. “Sorry, sir, but we all a bit tense at dis time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I certainly am,” said Ridcully, picking himself off the lawn and pulling twigs out of his beard. “I may not walk properly for the rest of the day. I suggest, sergeant, that we pick the doctor up, bring him round under the pump, and take him upstairs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The things that happened next were a waking dream for Vimes. He moved like a ghost through his own house, which was full of watchmen. No one wanted to be anywhere else.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shaved himself very slowly, concentrating on every stroke. He was aware of noises off, which arrived via the pink clouds in his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">he says he wants them boiled, the nasty horrid things! What's that for, to make them softer</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">trolls and dwarfs on tonight, every door and window covered and I mean covered</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">stood over me and said damn well boil them for twenty minutes! Like they were cabbage</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">now he's asked for a small brandy</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">Mrs Content stormed out and he said not to let her in again</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">Igor came and offered to help and Lawn took one look and said only if he's been boiled for twenty minutes</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">pox doctor, when all's said and done</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">old Stoneface'll cover him with gold if it all turns out right</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">yeah, and if it turns out wrong</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes got dressed in his street uniform, moving slowly and willing every limb into position. He brushed his hair. He went out into the hall. He sat down on an uncomfortable chair with his helmet on his knees, while ghosts both living and dead hurried around him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Usually—always—there was a part of Vimes that watched the other parts, because he was at heart a policeman. This time it wasn't there. It was in here with the rest of him, staring at nothing, and waiting</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">someone take up more towels</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">now he's asked for a large brandy!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre8">he wants to see Mister Vimes!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's brain lit up from whatever little pilot light of thought had been operating at the most basic level. He walked up the stairs, helmet under his arm, like a man going to take a statement. He knocked at the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lawn opened it. He was holding a brandy glass in his other hand, and moved aside with a smile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sybil was sitting up. He saw, through the mist of exhaustion, that she was holding something wrapped in a shawl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's called Sam, Sam,” she said. “And no argument.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sun came out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll teach him to walk!” beamed Vimes. “I'm good at teaching people to walk!” And he fell asleep before he hit the carpet.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36399998" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a pleasant stroll in the early evening air. Vimes trailed cigar smoke behind him as he walked down to Pseudopolis Yard, where he acknowledged the cheers and congratulations and thanked people for the lovely flowers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His next stop was at Dr Lawn's house where he sat and spoke for a while, about such things as memory and how tricky it can be, and forgetfulness, and how profitable it could prove.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then, with the doctor, he went to his bank. This institution was, not surprisingly, willing to open outside normal hours for a man who was a Duke, and the richest man in the city, and the Commander of the City Watch and, not least, quite prepared to kick the door down. There he signed over one hundred thousand dollars and the freehold of a large corner site in Goose Gate to one Dr J. Lawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then, alone, he went up to Small Gods. Legitimate First, whatever his private feelings, knew enough not to shut the gates on this night, and he'd filled the lamps.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes strolled over the moss-grown gravel. In the twilight, the lilac blooms seemed to shine. Their scent hung in the air like fog.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He waded through the grass and reached the grave of John Keel, where he sat on the headstone, taking care not to disturb the wreaths; he had a feeling that the sergeant would understand that a copper sometimes needed to take the weight off his feet. And he finished his cigar, and stared into the sunset.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while he was aware of a scraping noise to his left and could just make out the turf starting to sag on one of the graves. A grey hand was thrust out of the ground, clutching a shovel. A few pieces of turf were pushed aside and, with some effort, Reg Shoe rose from the grave. He was halfway out before he noticed Vimes, and nearly fell back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you frightened the life out of me, Mister Vimes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, Reg,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, when I say you frightened the life out of me—” the zombie began, gloomily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Reg, I understood you. Quiet down there, was it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very peaceful, sir, very peaceful. I think I'll have to get myself a new coffin before next year, though. They don't last any time at all these days.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose not that many people look for durability, Reg,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg slowly shovelled the soil back into place. “I know everyone thinks it's a bit odd, but I think I owe it to them really,” he said. “It's only one day a year, but it's like…solidarity.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With the downtrodden masses, eh?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No argument from me, Reg,” said Vimes happily. This was a perfect moment. Not even Reg, fussing around smoothing down earth and patting turf into place, could detract from it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There'll come a time when it'll all be clear, Sweeper had said. A perfect moment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The occupants of these graves had died for something. In the sunset glow, in the rising of the moon, in the taste of the cigar, in the warmth that comes from sheer exhaustion, Vimes saw it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">History finds a way. The nature of events changed, but the nature of the dead had not. It had been a mean, shameful little fight that ended them, a flyspecked footnote of history, but they hadn't been mean or shameful men. They hadn't run, and they could have run with honour. They'd stayed, and he wondered if the path had seemed as clear to them then as it did to him now. They'd stayed not because they wanted to be heroes, but because they chose to think of it as their job, and it was in front of them—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll be off, then, sir,” said Reg, shouldering his shovel. He seemed a long way away. “Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right. Right, Reg. Thank you,” mumbled Vimes, and in the pink glow of the moment watched the corporal march down the darkening path and out into the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">John Keel, Billy Wiglet, Horace Nancyball, Dai Dickins, Cecil “Snouty” Clapman, Ned Coates and, technically, Reg Shoe. Probably there were no more than twenty people in the city now who knew all the names, because there were no statues, no monuments, nothing written down anywhere. You had to have been there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He felt privileged to have been there twice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The night was welling up as the sun set. It unfolded from the shadows where it had hidden from the day, and flowed and joined together. He felt his senses flow with it, spreading out like the whiskers of a dark, giant cat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beyond the gates of the cemetery the city noise died down a little, although Ankh-Morpork never truly slept. It probably didn't dare.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt now, in this strange calm mood, that he could hear everything, <em class="calibre8">everything</em>, just as he had done back in that terrible moment in Heroes Street when history came to claim its own. He heard the tiny sounds in the stone wall as it cooled, the slither of dirt underground as Reg's vacated plot settled, the faint movement of the long grass around the graves…a thousand subtle sounds added up to a richly textured, localized silence. It was the song of the dark and in it, on the edge of detection, was a discord.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Let's see…he'd put a guard on his house and they were core people, ones he could trust not to stand around and get bored but to remain watchful, all night long. He hadn't had to explain how important that was. So the house was safe. And the Watch Houses had double guard, too—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was something wrong with Keel's grave. There was always the egg, every year, a little joke out of history. But now, it looked as though there was nothing down there but bits of eggshell—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he leaned forward to look, the blade went over his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the beast had been ready. The beast didn't think about guards and defences. The beast didn't think at all. But it forever sniffed the air and eyed the shadows and sampled the night and almost before the swish of the sword it had sent Vimes's hand thrusting into his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Crouched, he swivelled and punched Carcer on the kneecap with one of Mrs Goodbody's finest items. He heard things crackle, he launched himself up and forward, he bore Carcer to the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no science to this. The beast was off the chain and looking to kill. It was not often that Vimes was sure that he could make the world a better place, but he was sure now. It was all very clear now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And also very hard. The sword had gone, tumbling into the grass as Carcer went down. But Carcer fought, and was as tough as teak. And it is very hard, with your hands, to kill a man who does not want to be killed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook off the brass knuckles because what he needed to do now was throttle. There was no room, though. Carcer was trying to stick a thumb in his eye.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They rolled across the graves, scrabbling and struggling for advantage. Blood filled Vimes's left eye. His rage needed just one second, and that second was being denied.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He rolled again, and flung out a hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And there was the sword. He rolled again, and again, and staggered up with the blade in his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer had rolled too, and was pulling himself up with remarkable speed for a man with only one good knee. Vimes saw that he was dragging himself upright by one of the lilac trees; blossoms and scent floated down in the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Metal slid. There was the momentary gleam of a knife. And a little chuckle, Carcer's little laugh that said, hey, this is all good fun, eh?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So who's gonna arrest me?” he said, as they both gulped air. “Sergeant Keel or Commander Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who said you were going to be arrested?” said Vimes, trying to fill his lungs. “I'm fighting an attacker, Carcer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you <em class="calibre8">was</em>, Mister Vimes,” said the shadow. “Only now I'm in front of you.” Metal clinked on the gravel path. “And I ain't armed no more, haha. Thrown down my last weapon. Can't kill an unarmed man, Mister Vimes. You got to arrest me now. Drag me in front of Vetinari. Let me have my little say, haha. You can't <em class="calibre8">kill</em> me, just standin' here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one wants to hear anything you've got to say, Carcer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you'd better kill me, Mister Vimes. I got no weapon. I can't run.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've always got an extra knife, Carcer,” said Vimes, above the roar of the beast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not this time, Mister Vimes. Come <em class="calibre8">on</em>, Mister Vimes. Can't blame a man for tryin', eh? A man's got to give it his best shot, right? No hard feelings?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And that was Carcer. No hard feelings. His best shot. Can't blame a man for trying.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Innocent words got dirty in his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a step closer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You got a nice home to go to, Mister Vimes. I mean, what've I got?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the man was <em class="calibre8">convincing</em>. He fooled everybody. You could almost forget the corpses.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whoops, sorry,” said Carcer, “I walked over your grave there. No offence meant, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes said nothing. The beast was howling. It wanted to shut that mouth up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not going to kill me, Mister Vimes. Not you. Not you with a badge. That ain't your way, Mister Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Without looking, Vimes reached up and tore his badge off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, well, I know you want to give me a fright, Mister Vimes, and many would say you've got a right. Look, here's what I'll do, I'll throw away my other knife, haha, you knew I'd got another one, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was the voice. It could make you think that what you <em class="calibre8">knew</em> was wrong.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Okay, okay, I can see you're upset, haha, fair enough, and you <em class="calibre8">know</em> I've always got a third knife, well, I'm dropping it now, see, there it goes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was only a step or two away now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's it, Mister Vimes. No more knives. I can't run. I surrender. No messing about this time. I give in, okay? Just arrest me? For old times' sake?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The beast screamed inside Vimes. It screamed that no one would blame him for doing the hangman out of ten dollars and a free breakfast. Yeah, and you could say a swift stab now was the merciful solution, because every hangman knew you could go the easy way or the hard way and there wasn't one in the country that'd let something like Carcer go the easy way. The gods knew the man deserved it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…but young Sam was watching him, across thirty years.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When we break down, it all breaks down. That's just how it works. You can bend it, and if you make it hot enough you can bend it in a circle, but you can't break it. When you break it, it all breaks down until there's nothing unbroken. It starts here and now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He lowered the sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer looked up, grinning, and said, “Never tastes right, does it, haha, an egg without salt…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt his hand begin to move of its own accord—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And stopped. Red rage froze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was The Beast, all around him. And that's what it was. A beast. Useful, but still a beast. You could hold it on a chain, and make it dance, and juggle balls. It didn't think. It was <em class="calibre8">dumb</em>. What you were, what <em class="calibre8">you</em> were, was not The Beast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You didn't have to do what it wanted. If you did, Carcer won.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He dropped the sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carcer stared at him, the gleam of Vimes's sudden smile more worrying than the rictus of his rage. Then metal gleamed in his hand. But Vimes was already on him, grabbing the hand, slamming it again and again on John Keel's headstone until the fourth knife dropped from bleeding fingers. He dragged the man upright with both hands forced up behind his back and rammed him hard against the stone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See that up in the sky, Carcer?” he said, his mouth by the man's ear. “That's the sunset, that is. That's the stars. And they'll shine all the better on my lad Sam tomorrow night 'cos they won't be shining down on you, Carcer, by reason of the fact that before the dew's off the leaves in the morning I'll drag you in front of Vetinari, and we'll have the witnesses there, lots of 'em, and maybe even a lawyer for you if there's any of 'em who could plead for you with a straight face and then, Carcer, we'll take you to the Tanty, one gallows, no waiting, and you can dance the hemp fandango. And then I'll bleedin' well go home and maybe I'll even have a hard-boiled egg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're hurting!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, you're right there, Carcer!” Vimes managed to get both the man's wrists in a steel grip, and ripped the sleeve off his own shirt. “I'm hurting and I'm <em class="calibre8">still</em> doing it all by the book.” He wrapped the linen around the wrists a couple of times and knotted it firmly. “I'll make sure there's water in your cell, Carcer. I'll make sure you get breakfast, anything you like. I'll make sure the hangman doesn't get sloppy and let you choke to death. I'll even make sure the trapdoor is greased.” He released the pressure. Carcer stumbled, and Vimes kicked his legs from under him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The machine ain't broken, Carcer. The machine is waiting for you,' he said, tearing a sleeve off the man's own shirt and fashioning it into a crude binding for his ankles. The city will kill you dead. The proper wheels'll turn. It'll be fair, I'll make sure of that. Afterwards you won't be able to say you didn't have a fair trial. Won't be able to say a thing, haha. I'll see to that, too…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good evening, your grace,” said Lord Vetinari. Vimes spun around. There was a change of texture in the darkness, which could have been man-shaped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes snatched up his sword and peered into the night. The shape came forward, became recognizable.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long were <em class="calibre8">you</em> there?” he demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh…some little while,” said the Patrician. “Like you, I prefer to come alone and…contemplate.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were very quiet!” said Vimes accusingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that a crime, your grace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you heard—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A very neat arrest,” said Vetinari. “Congratulations, your grace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the unbloodied sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose so,” he said, temporarily derailed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On the birth of your son, I meant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh…yes. Oh. Of course. Yes. Well…thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A healthy lad, I am given to understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'd have been just as happy with a daughter,” said Vimes, quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite so. These are modern times, after all. Oh, I see you have dropped your badge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at the long grass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll come and find it in the morning,” he said. “But <em class="calibre8">this</em>,” he picked up the moaning Carcer and slung him over his shoulder with a grunt, “is going back to Pseudopolis Yard right now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They walked slowly down the gravel path, leaving the scent of lilac behind. Ahead was the everyday stink of the world.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know,” said Lord Vetinari, after a few moments, “it has often crossed my mind that those men deserve a proper memorial of some sort.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh yes?” said Vimes, in a non-committal voice. His heart was still pounding. “In one of the main squares, perhaps?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, that would be a good idea.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps a tableau in bronze?” said Vimes sarcastically. “All seven of them raising the flag, perhaps?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bronze, yes,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? And some sort of inspiring slogan?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, indeed. Something like, perhaps, ‘They Did The Job They Had To Do’?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre8">No</em>,” said Vimes, coming to a halt under a lamp by the crypt entrance. “How <em class="calibre8">dare</em> you? How dare you! At this time! In this place! They did the job they <em class="calibre8">didn't</em> have to do, and they died doing it, and you can't give them anything. Do you understand? They fought for those who'd been abandoned, they fought for one another, and they were betrayed. Men like them always are. What good would a statue be? It'd just inspire new fools to believe they're going to be heroes. They wouldn't want that. Just let them be. <em class="calibre8">Forever.</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They walked in heavy silence, and then Vetinari said, as if there had been no outburst: “Happily, it appears that the new deacon at the temple here has suddenly heard the call.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What call?” said Vimes, his heart still racing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm never very good at religious matters, but apparently he was filled with a burning desire to spread the good word to the benighted heathen,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suggested Ting Ling.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right on the other side of the world!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, a good word can't be spread too far, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, at least it puts—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped at the entrance gates. Overhead, another lamp flickered. He dropped Carcer to the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You knew? You bloody well knew, didn't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not until, oh, one second ago,” said Vetinari. “As one man to another, commander, I must ask you: did you ever wonder why I wore the lilac?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah. I wondered,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you never asked.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I never asked,” said Vimes shortly. “It's a flower. Anyone can wear a flower.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At this time? In this place?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I'll recall the day I was sent on an urgent errand,” said Vetinari. “I had to save the life of a man. Not a usual errand for an Assassin although, in fact, I had already saved it once before.” He gave Vimes a quizzical look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd shot a man who was aiming a crossbow?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An inspired guess, commander! Yes. I have an eye for the…unique. But now I was fighting time. The streets were blocked. Chaos and confusion were everywhere, and it wasn't as if I even knew where he could be found. In the end, I took to the rooftops. And thus I came at last to Cable Street, where there was a different sort of confusion.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me what you saw,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I saw a man called Carcer…vanish. And I saw a man called John Keel die. At least, I saw him dead.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I joined the fight. I snatched up a lilac bloom from a fallen man and, I have to say, held it in my mouth. I'd like to think I made some difference; I certainly killed four men, although I take no particular pride in that. They were thugs, bullies. No real skill. Besides, their leader had apparently fled, and what morale they had had gone with him. The men with the lilac, I have to say, fought like tigers. Not skilfully, I'll admit, but when <em class="calibre8">they</em> saw that <em class="calibre8">their</em> leader was down they took the other side to pieces. Astonishing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then, afterwards, I took a look at John Keel. It <em class="calibre8">was</em> John Keel. How could there be any question about that? Blood on him of course. There was blood everywhere. His wounds looked somewhat old, I thought. And death, as we know, changes people. Yet I remember wondering: this much? So I put it down as half a mystery and today…sergeant…we find the other half of a mystery. It's wonderful, isn't it, how alike men can be? I can imagine that even your Sergeant Colon would not realise anything. After all, he saw Keel die and he watched you grow up—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where is this leading?” Vimes demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nowhere, commander. What could I prove? And to what end would I prove it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I'm saying <em class="calibre8">nothing</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I cannot imagine what you <em class="calibre8">could</em> say,” said Vetinari. “No. I agree. Let us leave the dead alone. But for you, commander, as a little gift on the occasion of the birth of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's nothing I want,” said Vimes quickly. “You can't promote me any further. There's nothing left to bribe me with. I've got more than I deserve. The Watch is working well. We don't even need a new bloody dartboard—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In memory of the late John Keel—” Vetinari began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre8">warned</em> you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—I can give you back Treacle Mine Road.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Only the high-pitched squeak of bats, hunting around the poplars, broke the silence that followed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Vimes muttered: “A dragon burned it years ago. Some dwarfs live in the cellars now…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, commander. But dwarfs…well, dwarfs are so refreshingly open about money. The more money the city offers, the less dwarf there is. The stable's still there, and the old mining tower. Stout stone walls all around. It could all be put back, commander. In memory of John Keel, a man who in a few short days changed the lives of many and, perhaps, saved some sanity in a mad world. Why, in a few months you could light the lamp over the door…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Again, all that could be heard was the bats.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Perhaps they could even bring back the smell, Vimes thought. Perhaps there could be a window above the privy that'd spring open if you thumped it just right. Perhaps they could teach new coppers to learn old tricks—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We could do with the space, it's true,” he conceded, with some effort.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can see you like the sound of it already,” said Vetinari. “And if you care to come along to my office tomorrow, we can settle the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a trial tomorrow,” said Vimes sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes. Of course. And it will be a fair one,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It'd better be,” said Vimes. “I want this bastard to hang, after all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, then,” said Vetinari, “afterwards we could—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Afterwards I'm going home to my family for a while,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good! Well said,” said Vetinari, not missing a beat. “You have a gift, I have noticed, for impressive oratory.” And Vimes heard the gentle note of warning as he added, “At this time, commander, and in this place.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's sergeant-at-arms, thank you,” said Vimes. “For now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He grabbed Carcer's shirt collar, and dragged him to justice.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400779" class="calibre9"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the way back to Scoone Avenue, in the dark of night, Vimes walked along the alley behind Clay Lane and stopped when he reckoned he was at a point halfway between the backs of the pawn shop and the shonky shop, and therefore behind the temple.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He threw his cigar stub over the fence. He heard it land on gravel, which moved a little.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he went home. And the world turned towards morning.</div>
    
  <hr class="calibre4"/><h4 class="calibre12">notes</h4>
    <div id="TOC_id36400800" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn1"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">1. The Igor employed by the Watch as forensic specialist and medical aide was quite young (in so far as you could tell with an Igor, since useful limbs and other organs were passed on among Igors as others might hand on a pocket watch) and very modern in his thinking. He had a DA haircut with extended quiff, wore crepe soles and sometimes forgot to lisp.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400811" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn2"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">2. The Uberwald League of Temperance, made up of former vampires who now wore black ribbons to show that they had completely sworn off the sticky stuff, my vord yes, and much preferred a good singsong and a healthy game of table-tennis.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400822" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn3"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">3. Old Tom, the University's venerable clock, tolled not sounds but silences. They were not simply ordinary silences, but intervals of noise-absorbing nonsound that filled the world with loud soundlessness.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400832" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn4"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">4. Who was an orangutan, changed from his former human shape as a result of a long-forgotten magical accident. It was so forgotten, in fact, that now people were forgetting he was an orangutan. This might seem quite hard to do, given that even a small orangutan is quite capable of filling all immediately available space, but to the wizards and most of the citizens he was now just the Librarian, and that was that. In fact, if someone ever reported that there was an orangutan in the Library, the wizards would probably go and ask the Librarian if he'd seen it.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400845" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn5"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">5. Named after Wallace Sonky, a man without whose experiments with thin rubber the pressure on housing in Ankh-Morpork would have been a good deal more pressing.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400854" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn6"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">6. In the same way that ancient forests become coal, ancient swaths of natural sugar cane can become, under the pressure of millennia, what in various parts of the Disc is known as hokey-pokey, pig treacle or rock molasses. But much boiling and purification was necessary to create the thick golden syrup that was the city dweller's honey, and these days Ankh-Morpork's supplies come from the more accessible toffee beds near Quirm.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400866" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn7"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">7. Like creamed, but it goes on for a lot longer.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400875" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn8"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">8. And this was true. Don't bother with the boots, would have been Trooper Gabitass's advice, had he been inclined to part with it. You need to bribe someone on the baggage carts to build up stock and when all's said and done you'll only make a few dollars. Stick to jewellery. It's portable. Trooper Gabitass had seen too many battlefields up close to use the word “glory” without wincing.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400891" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn9"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">9. The Selachii and the Venturi made a point, on occasions like this, to talk only about things on which there was no possibility of disagreement. Given the history of the two families, this had become a very small number of things.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36400900" class="calibre9"><a id="_ftn10"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">10. Sometimes, admittedly, for a given value of “never”.</div>
    
  </div>

{% endraw %}

