---
layout: page
title: "The White Rose"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/cook-the-white-rose_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216782">Glen Cook</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218249">Chapter One: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218189">Chapter Two: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218606">Chapter Three: STORY FROM YESTERYEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218912">Chapter Four: THE NEAR PAST: CORBIE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218997">Chapter Five: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219206">Chapter Six: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36394487">Chapter Seven: THE SECOND LETTER</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36395024">Chapter Eight: THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36395270">Chapter Nine: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36395704">Chapter Ten: BOMANZ'S STORY</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36396582">Chapter Eleven: THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36396832">Chapter Twelve: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36397042">Chapter Thirteen: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36397212">Chapter Fourteen: THE STORY OF BOMANZ</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36398036">Chapter Fifteen: THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36398180">Chapter Sixteen: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36398412">Chapter Seventeen: RUST</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36398741">Chapter Eighteen: SIEGE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36399082">Chapter Nineteen: BOMANZ'S TALE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36399814">Chapter Twenty: THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36400226">Chapter Twenty-One: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36400359">Chapter Twenty-Two: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36400978">Chapter Twenty-Three: THE PLAIN OF FEAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36401366">Chapter Twenty-Four: THE WIDE WORLD</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36401638">Chapter Twenty-Five: THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36401826">Chapter Twenty-Six: ON THE ROAD</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36401969">Chapter Twenty-Seven: OAR</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36402162">Chapter Twenty-Eight: TO THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36402510">Chapter Twenty-Nine: THE BARROWLAND, BACK WHEN</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36402611">Chapter Thirty: A BARROWLAND NIGHT</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36402765">Chapter Thirty-One: NIGHT IN THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36403197">Chapter Thirty-Two: IMPRISONED IN THE BARROWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36403608">Chapter Thirty-Three: MISSING MAN</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36404025">Chapter Thirty-Four: BOMANZ'S STORY</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36404461">Chapter Thirty-Five: THE BARROWLAND, FROM BAD TO WORSE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36404634">Chapter Thirty-Six: HARD TIMES</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36404985">Chapter Thirty-Seven: THE FOREST AND BEYOND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36405300">Chapter Thirty-Eight: THE FORTRESS AT DEAL</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36405621">Chapter Thirty-Nine: A GUEST AT CHARM</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36406274">Chapter Forty: MAKING UP MY MIND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36406485">Chapter Forty-One: A TOWN CALLED HORSE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36406999">Chapter Forty-Two: HOMECOMING</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36407462">Chapter Forty-Three: PICNIC</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36408076">Chapter Forty-Four: THE QUICKENING</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36408325">Chapter Forty-Five: BARGAIN STRUCK</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36408504">Chapter Forty-Six: SON OF THE TREE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36408742">Chapter Forty-Seven: SHADOWS IN SHADOWLAND</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36408798">Chapter Forty-Eight: FLIGHT WEST</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36409077">Chapter Forty-Nine: THE INVISIBLE MAZE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36409301">Chapter Fifty: GNOMEN?</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36409441">Chapter Fifty-One: THE SIGN</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36409527">Chapter Fifty-Two: NO SURPRISE</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36409703">Chapter Fifty-Three: THE RECOVERY</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36410243">Chapter Fifty-Four: AN EVENING AT HOME</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36410463">Chapter Fifty-Five: OPENING ROUNDS</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36410686">Chapter Fifty-Six: TIME FADING</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36410928">Chapter Fifty-Seven: THE LAST DAY</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36411351">Chapter Fifty-Eight: END OF THE GAME</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36411607">Chapter Fifty-Nine: LAST VOTE</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Glen Cook <br class="calibre6"/>
  The White Rose <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216830" class="calibre7"></div>

   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218249" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218251" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter One:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The still desert air had a lenselike quality. The riders seemed frozen in time, moving without drawing closer. We took turns-counting. I could not get the same number twice running.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A breath of a breeze whined in the coral, stirred the leaves of Old Father Tree. They tinkled off one another with the song of wind chimes. To the north, the glimmer of change lightning limned the horizon like the far clash of warring gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A foot crunched sand. I turned. Silent gawked at a talking menhir. It had appeared in the past few seconds, startling him. Sneaky rocks. Like to play games.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are strangers on the Plain," it said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jumped. It chuckled. Menhirs have the most malevolent laughs this side of fairy stories. Snarling, I ducked into its shadow. "Hot out here already." And: "That's One-Eye and Goblin, back from Tanner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was right and I was wrong. I was too narrowly focused. The patrol had been away a month longer than planned. We were worried. Lately the Lady's troops have been more active along the bounds of the Plain of Fear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another chuckle from the block of stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It towered over me, thirteen feet tall. A middle-sized one. Those over fifteen feet-seldom move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The riders were closer, yet seemed no nearer. Blame nerves. Times are desperate for the Black Company. We cannot afford casualties. Any man lost would be a friend of many years. I counted again. Seemed right this time. But there was a riderless mount… I shivered despite the heat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were on the downtrail leading to a creek three hundred yards from where we watched, concealed within a great reef. The walking trees beside the ford stirred, though the breeze had failed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The riders urged their mounts to hurry. The animals were tired. They were reluctant, though they knew they were almost home. Into the creek. Water splashing. I grinned, pounded Silent's back. They were all there. Every man, and another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent shed his customary cool, returned a smile. Elmo slipped out of the coral and went to meet our brethren. Otto, Silent, and I hurried after him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind us, the morning sun was a great seething ball of blood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men piled off horses, grinning. But they looked bad. Goblin and One-Eye worst of all. But they had come back to territory where their wizards' powers were useless. This near Darling they are no greater than the rest of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced back. Darling had come to the head of the tunnel, stood like a phantom in its shadow, all in white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men hugged men; then old habit took charge. Everybody pretended it was just another day. "Rough out there?" I asked One-Eye. I considered the man accompanying them. He was not familiar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." The dried-up little black man was more diminished than first I had thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Took an arrow." He rubbed his side. "Flesh wound."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From behind One-Eye, Goblin squeaked, "They almost got us. Been chasing us a month. We couldn't shake them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's get you down in the Hole," I told One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not infected. I cleared it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I still want a look." He has been my assistant since I enlisted as Company physician. His judgment is sound. Yet health is my responsibility, ultimately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They were waiting for us, Croaker." Darling was gone from the mouth of the tunnel, back to the stomach of our subterranean fastness. The sun remained bloody in the east, legacy of the change storm's passing. Something big drifted across its face. Windwhale?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ambush?" I glanced back at the patrol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not us specifically. For trouble. They were on the ball." The patrol had had a double mission: to contact our sympathizers in Tanner to find out if the Lady's people were coming alive after a long hiatus, and to raid the garrison there in order to prove we could hurt an empire that bestrides half a world. As we passed it the menhir said, "There are strangers on the Plain, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Why do these things happen to me? The big stones talk to me more than to anyone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twice a charm? I paid attention. For a menhir to repeat itself meant it considered its message critical. "The men hunting you?" I asked One-Eye. He shrugged. "They wouldn't give up." "What's happening out there?" Hiding on the Plain, I might as well be buried alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye's face remained unreadable. "Corder will tell it." "Corder? That the guy you brought in?" I knew the name though not the man. One of our best informants. "Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No good news, eh?" "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We slipped into the tunnel which leads down to our warren, our stinking, moldering, damp, tight little rabbit-hole fortress. It is disgusting, but it is the heart and soul of the New White Rose Rebellion. The New Hope, as it is whispered among the captive nations. The Joke Hope to those of us who live here. It is as bad as any rat-infested dungeon-though a man can leave. If he does not mind a venture into a world where all the might of an empire is turned upon him.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218189" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218191" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Two:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Corder was our eyes and ears in Tanner. He had contacts everywhere. His work against the Lady goes back decades. He is one of the few who escaped her wrath at Charm, where she obliterated the Rebel of old. In great part, the Company was responsible. In those days we were her strong right arm. We piloted her enemies into the trap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A quarter million men died at Charm. Never was there a battle so vast or grim, nor of outcome so definitive. Even the Dominator's bloody failure in the Old Forest consumed but half as many lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fate compelled us to switch sides-once there was no one left to help us in our fight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye's wound was as clean as he claimed. I cut him loose, ambled off to my quarters. Word was, Darling wanted the patrol rested before she accepted its report. I shivered with premonition, afraid to hear their tidings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An old, tired man. That is what I am. What became of the old fire, drive, ambition? There were dreams once upon a time, dreams now all but forgotten. On sad days I dust them off and fondle them nostalgically, with a patronizing wonder at the naivete of the youth who dreamed them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Old infests my quarters. My great project. Eighty pounds of ancient documents, captured from the general Whisper when we served the Lady and she the Rebel. They are supposed to contain the key to breaking the Lady and the Taken. I have had them six years. And in six years I have found nothing. So much failure. Depressing. Nowadays, more often than not I merely shuffle them, then turn to these Annals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Since our escape from Juniper they have been little more than a personal journal. The remnant of the Company generates little excitement. What outside news we get is so slim and unreliable I seldom bother recording it. Moreover, since her victory over her husband in Juniper, the Lady seems to be in stasis even more than we, running on inertia.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Appearances deceive, of course. And the Lady's essence is illusion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up from a page of Old TelleKurre already studied a hundred times. Goblin stood in the doorway. He looked like an old toad. "Yeah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something happening up top. Grab a sword."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grabbed my bow and a leather cuirass. I am too ancient for hand-to-hand. I'd rather stand off and plink if I have to fight at all. I considered the bow as I followed Goblin. It had been given me by the Lady herself, during the battle at Charm. Oh, the memories. With it I helped slay Soulcatcher, the Taken who brought the Company into the Lady's service. Those days now seemed almost prehistoric.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We galloped into sunlight. Others came out with us, dispersed amidst cactus and coral. The rider coming down the trail-the only path in here-would not see us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rode alone, on a moth-eaten mule. He was not armed. "All this for an old man on a mule?" I asked. Men scooted through coral and between cacti, making one hell of a racket. The old-timer had to know we were there. "We'd better work on getting out here more quietly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Startled, I whirled. Elmo was behind me, one hand shading his eyes. He looked as old and tired as I felt. Each day something reminds me that none of us are young anymore. Hell, none of us were young when we came north, over the Sea of Torments. "We need new blood, Elmo." He sneered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. We will be a lot older before this is done. If we last. For we are buying time. Decades, hopefully. The rider crossed the creek, stopped. He raised his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men materialized, weapons held negligently. One old man alone, at the heart of Darling's null, presented no danger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo, Goblin, and I strolled down. As we went I asked Goblin, "You and One-Eye have fun while you were gone?" They have been feuding for ages. But here, where Darling's presence forbids it, they cannot play sorcerous tricks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin grinned. When he grins, his mouth spreads from ear to ear. "I loosened him up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We reached the rider. "Tell me later." Goblin giggled, a squeaking noise like water bubbling in a teakettle. "Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you?" Elmo asked the mule rider. "Tokens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was not a name. It was a password for a courier from the far west. We had not heard it for a long time. Western messengers had to reach the Plain through the Lady's most tamed provinces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" Elmo said. "How about that? Want to step down?" The old man eased off his mount, presented his bonafides. Elmo found them acceptable. Then he announced, "I've got twenty pounds of stuff here." He tapped a case behind his saddle. "Every damn town added to the load." "Make the whole trip yourself?" I asked. "Every foot from Oar." "Oar? That's…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More than a thousand miles. I hadn't known we had anyone up there. But there, is a lot I do not know about the organization Darling has assembled. I spend my time trying to get those damned papers to tell me something that may not be there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old man looked at me as though subjecting my soul to an accounting. "You the physician? Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got something for you. Personal." He opened his courier case. For a moment everyone was alert. You never know. But he brought out an oilskin packet wrapped to protect something against the end of the world. '"Rains all the time up there," he explained. He gave me the packet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I weighed it. Not that heavy, oilskin aside. "Who's it from?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old man shrugged. "Where'd you get it?" "From my cell captain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course. Darling has built with care, structuring her organization so that it is almost impossible for the Lady to break more than a fraction. The child is a genius.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo accepted the rest, told Otto, "Take him down and find him a bunk. Get some rest, old-timer. The White Rose will question you later."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An interesting afternoon upcoming, maybe, what with this guy and Corder both to report. I hefted the mystery packet, told Elmo, "I'll go give this a look." Who could have sent it? I knew no one outside the Plain. Well… But the Lady would not inject a letter into the underground. Would she?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twinge of fear. It had been a while, but she had promised to keep in touch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The talking menhir that had forewarned us about the messenger remained rooted beside the path. As I passed, it said, "There are strangers on the Plain, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I halted. "What? More of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reverted to character, would say no more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Never will I comprehend those old stones. Hell, I still don't understand why they are on our side. They hate all outsiders separately but equally. They and every one of the weird sentiences out here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped into my quarters, unstrung my bow, left it leaning against the earth wall. I settled at my worktable and opened the packet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not recognize the hand. I found the ending was not signed. I began to read.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218606" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218608" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Three:
STORY FROM YESTERYEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman was bitching again. Bomanz massaged his temples. The throbbing did not slacken. He covered his eyes. "Saita, sayta, suta," he murmured, his sibilants angry and ophidian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bit his tongue. One did not make a sending upon one's wife. One endured with humbled dignity the consequences of youthful folly. Ah, but what temptation! What provocation!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enough, fool! Study the damned chart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither Jasmine nor the headache relented.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloody hell!" He slapped the weights off the corners of the chart, rolled the thin silk around a wisp of glass rod. He slipped the rod inside the shaft of a fake antique spear. That shaft was shiny with handling. "Besand would spot it in a minute," he grumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ground his teeth as his ulcer took a bite of gut. The closer the end drew, the greater was the danger. His nerves were shot. He was afraid he might crack at the last barrier, that cowardice would devour him and he would have lived in vain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thirty-seven years was a long time to live in the shadow of the headsman's axe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jasmine," he muttered. "And call a sow Beauty." He flung the door-hanging aside, shouted downstairs, "What is it now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was what it always was. Nagging unconnected with the root of her dissatisfaction. An interruption of his studies as a payback for what she fancied was his having misspent their lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could have become a man of consequence in Oar. He could have given her a great house overstuffed with fawning servants. He could have draped her in cloth-of-gold. He could have fed her tumble-down fat with meat at every meal. Instead, he had chosen a scholar's life, disguising his name and profession, dragging her to this bleak, haunted break in the Old Forest. He had given her nothing but squalor, icy winters, and indignities perpetrated by the Eternal Guard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz stamped down the narrow, squeaky, treacherous stairway. He cursed the woman, spat on the floor, thrust silver into her desiccated paw, drove her away with a plea that supper, for once, be a decent meal. Indignity? he thought. I'll tell you about indignity, you old crow. I'll tell you what it's like to live with a perpetual whiner, a hideous old bag of vapid, juvenile dreams…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop it, Bomanz," he muttered. "She's the mother of your son. Give her her due. She hasn't betrayed you." If nothing else, they still shared the hope represented by the map on silk. It was hard for her, waiting, unaware of his progress, knowing only that nearly four decades had yielded no tangible result.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bell on the shop door tinkled. Bomanz clutched at his shopkeeper persona. He scuttled forward, a fat, bald little man with blue-veined hands folded before his chest. "Tokar." He bowed slightly. "I didn't expect you so soon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar was a trader from Oar, a friend of Bomanz's son Stancil. He had a bluff, honest, irreverent manner Bomanz deluded himself into seeing as the ghost of his own at a younger age.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't plan to be back so soon. Bo. But antiques are the rage. It surpasses comprehension."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want another lot? Already? You'll clean me out." Unsaid, the silent complaint: Bomanz, this means replenishment work. Time lost from research.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Domination is hot this year. Stop pottering around, Bo. Make hay, and all that. Next year the market could be as dead as the Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not… Maybe I'm getting too old, Tokar. I don't enjoy the rows with Besand anymore. Hell. Ten years ago I went looking for him. A good squabble killed boredom. The digging grinds me down, too. I'm used up. I just want to sit on the stoop and watch life go by." While he chattered, Bomanz set out his best antique swords, pieces of armor, soldiers' amulets, and an almost perfectly preserved shield. A box of arrowheads with roses engraved. A pair of broad-bladed thrusting spears, ancient, heads mounted on replica shafts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can send you some men. Show them where to dig. I'll pay you commission. You won't have to do anything. That's a damned fine axe, Bo. TelleKurre? I could sell a bargeload of TelleKurre weaponry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"UchiTelle, actually." A twinge from his ulcer. "No No helpers." That was all he needed. A bunch of young hotshots hanging over his shoulder while he made his field calculations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just a suggestion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry. Don't mind me. Jasmine was on me this morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Softly, Tokar asked, "Found anything connected with the Taken?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With the ease of decades, Bomanz dissembled, feigning horror. "The Taken? Am I a fool? I wouldn't touch it if I could get it past the Monitor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar smiled conspiratorily. "Sure. We don't want to offend the Eternal Guard. Nevertheless… There's one man in Oar who would pay well for something that could be ascribed to one of the Taken. He'd sell his soul for something that belonged to the Lady. He's in love with her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She was known for that." Bomanz avoided the younger man's gaze. How much had Stance revealed? Was this one of Besand's fishing expeditions? The older Bomanz became, the less he enjoyed the game. His nerves could not take this double life. He was tempted to confess just for the relief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, damnit! He had too much invested. Thirty-seven years. Digging and scratching every minute. Sneaking and pretending. The most abject poverty. No. He would not give up. Not now. Not when he was this close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In my way, I love her, too," he admitted. "But I haven't abandoned good sense. I'd scream for Besand if I found anything. So loud you'd hear me in Oar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. Whatever you say." Tokar grinned. "Enough suspense." He produced a leather wallet. "Letters from Stancil."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz seized the wallet. "Haven't heard from him since last time you were here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I start loading, Bo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Go ahead." Absently, Bomanz took his current inventory list from a pigeonhole. "Mark off whatever you take."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar laughed gently. "All of it this time, Bo. Just quote me a price."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything? Half is junk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you, the Domination is hot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You saw Stance? How is he?" He was halfway through the first letter. His son had nothing substantial to relate. His missives were filled with daily trivia. Duty letters. Letters from a son to his parents, unable to span the timeless chasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sickeningly healthy. Bored with the university. Read on. There's a surprise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tokar was here," Bomanz said. He grinned, danced from foot to foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That thief?" Jasmine scowled. "Did you remember to get paid?" Her fat, sagging face was set in perpetual disapproval. Generally her mouth was open in the same vein.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He brought letters from Stance. Here." He offered the packet. He could not contain himself. "Stance is coming home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Home? He can't. He has his position at the university." "He's taking a sabbatical. He's coming for the summer." "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To see us. To help with the shop. To get away so he can finish a thesis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine grumbled. She did not read the letters. She had not forgiven her son for sharing his father's interest in the Domination. "What he's doing is coming here to help you poke around where you're not supposed to poke, isn't he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz darted furtive glances at the shop's windows. His was an existence of justifiable paranoia. "It's the Year of the Comet. The ghosts of the Taken will rise to mourn the passing of the Domination."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This summer would mark the tenth return of the comet which had appeared at the hour of the Dominator's fall. The Ten Who Were Taken would manifest strongly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had witnessed one passage the summer he had come to the Old Forest, long before Stancil's birth. The Barrowland had been impressive with ghosts walking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Excitement tightened his belly. Jasmine would not appreciate it, but this was the summer. End of the long quest. He lacked only one key. Find it and he could make contact, could begin drawing out instead of putting in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine sneered. "Why did I get into this? My mother warned me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Stancil we're talking about, woman. Our only."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah, Bo, don't call me a cruel old lady. Of course I'll welcome him. Don't I cherish him, too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't hurt to show it." Bomanz examined the remnants of his inventory. "Nothing left but the worst junk. These old bones ache just thinking of the digging I'll have to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His bones ached, but his spirit was eager. Restocking was a plausible excuse for wandering the edges of the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No time like now to start."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You trying to get me out of the house?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That wouldn't hurt my feelings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sighing, Bomanz surveyed his shop. A few pieces of time-rotted gear, broken weapons, a skull that could not be attributed because it lacked the triangular inset characteristic of Domination officers. Collectors were not interested in the bones of kerns or in those of followers of the White Rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Curious, he thought. Why are we so intrigued by evil? The White Rose was more heroic than the Dominator or Taken. She has been forgotten by everybody but the Monitor's men. Any peasant can name half the Taken. The Barrowland, where evil lies restless, is guarded, and the grave of the White Rose is lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither here nor there," Bomanz grumbled. "Time to hit the field. Here. Here. Spade. Divining wand. Bags… Maybe Tokar was right. Maybe I should get a helper. Brushes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Help carry that stuff around. Transit. Maps. Can't forget those. What else? Claim ribbons. Of course. That wretched Men fu."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stuffed things into a pack and hung equipment all about himself. He gathered spade and rake and transit. "Jasmine. Jasmine! Open the damned door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She peeped through the curtains masking their living quarters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should've opened it first, dimwit." She stalked across the shop. "One of these days, Bo, you're going to get organized.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Probably the day after my funeral." He stumbled down the street grumbling, "I'll get organized the day you die. Damned well better believe. I want you in the ground before you change your mind."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218912" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218914" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Four:
THE NEAR PAST: CORBIE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Barrowland lies far north of Charm, in the Old Forest so storied in the legends of the White Rose. Corbie came to the town there the summer after the Dominator failed to escape his grave through Juniper. He found the Lady's minions in high morale. The grand evil in the Great Barrow was no longer to be feared. The dregs of the Rebel had been routed. The empire had no more enemies of consequence. The Great Comet, harbinger of all catastrophes, would not return for decades.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One lone focus of resistance remained, a child claimed to be the reincarnation of the White Rose. But she was a fugitive, running with the remnants of the traitorous Black Company. Nothing to fear there. The Lady's overwhelming resources would swamp them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie came limping up the road from Oar, alone, a pack on his back, a staff gripped tightly. He claimed to be a disabled veteran of the Limper's Forsberg campaigns. He wanted work. There was work aplenty for a man not too proud. The Eternal Guard were well-paid. Many hired drudgework taken off their duties.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At that time a regiment garrisoned the Barrowland. Countless civilians orbited its compound. Corbie vanished among those. When companies and battalions transferred out, he was an established part of the landscape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He washed dishes, curried horses, cleaned stables, carried messages, mopped floors, peeled vegetables, assumed any burden for which he might earn a few coppers. He was a quiet, tall, dusky, brooding sort who made no special friends, but made no enemies either. Seldom did he socialize.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few months he asked for and received permission to occupy a ramshackle house long shunned because once it belonged to a sorcerer from Oar. As time and resources permitted, he restored the place. And like the sorcerer before him, he pursued the mission that had brought him north.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten, twelve, fourteen hours a day Corbie worked around town, then went home and worked some more. People wondered when he rested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If there was anything that detracted from Corbie, it was that he refused to assume his role completely. Most scutboys had to endure a lot of personal abuse. Corbie would not accept it. Victimize him and his eyes went cold as winter steel. Only one man ever pressed Corbie once he got that look. Corbie beat him with ruthless, relentless efficiency.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one suspected him of leading a double life. Outside his home he was Corbie the swamper, nothing more. He lived the role to his heart. When he was home, in the more public hours, he was Corbie the renovator, creating a new home from an old. Only in the wee hours, while all but the night patrol slept, did he become Corbie the man with a mission.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie the renovator found a treasure in a wall of the wizard's kitchen. He took it upstairs, where Corbie the driven came up from the deeps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scrap of paper bore a dozen words scribbled in a shaky hand. A cipher key.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That lean, dusky, long-unsmiling face shed its ice. Dark eyes sparkled, Fingers turned up a lamp. Corbie sat, and for an hour stared at nothing. Then, still smiling, he went downstairs and out into the night. He raised a hand in gentle greeting whenever he encountered the night patrol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was known now. No one challenged his right to limp about and watch the constellations wheel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He went home when his nerves settled. There would be no sleep for him. He scattered papers, began to study, to decipher, to translate, to write a story-letter that would not reach its destination for years.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218997" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218999" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Five:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye stopped by to tell me Darling was about to interview Corder and the messenger. "She's looking peaked, Croaker. You been watching her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I watch. I advise. She ignores. What can I do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We got twenty-some years till the comet shows. No point her working herself to death, is there?" "Tell her that. She just tells me this mess will be settled long before the comet comes around again. That it's a race against time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She believes that. But the rest of us cannot catch her fire. Isolated in the Plain of Fear, cut off from the world, the struggle with the Lady sometimes slips in importance. The Plain itself too often preoccupies us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught myself outdistancing One-Eye. This premature burial has not been good for him. Without his skills he has weakened physically. He is beginning to show his age. I let him catch up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You and Goblin enjoy your adventure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could not choose between a smirk or scowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got you again, eh?" Their battle has been on since the dawn. One-Eye starts each skirmish. Goblin usually finishes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grumbled something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo!" someone shouted. "Everybody up top! Alert! Alert!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye spat. "Twice in one day? What the hell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew what he meant. We have not had twenty alerts our whole two years out here. Now two in one day? Improbable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dashed back for my bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time we went out with less clatter. Elmo had made his displeasure painfully apparent in a few private conversations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sunlight again. Like a blow. The entrance to the Hole faces westward. The sun was in our eyes when we emerged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You damned fool!" Elmo was yelling. "What the hell you doing?" A young soldier stood in the open, pointing. I let my gaze follow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, damn," I whispered. "Oh, double bloody damn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye saw it too. "Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The airborne dot drifted higher, circling our hideout, spiral-ing inward. It wobbled suddenly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Taken. Whisper or Journey?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good to see old friends," Goblin said as he joined us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had not seen the Taken since reaching the Plain. Before that they had been in our hair constantly, having pursued us all the four years it had taken us to get here from Juniper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They are the Lady's satraps, her understudies in terror. Once there were ten. In the time of the Domination, the Lady and her husband enslaved the greatest of their contemporaries, making them their instruments: the Ten Who Were Taken. The Taken went into the ground with their masters when the White Rose defeated the Dominator four centuries ago. And they arose with the Lady, two turns of the comet back. And in fighting among themselves-for some remained loyal to the Dominator-most perished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the Lady obtained new slaves. Feather. Whisper. Journey. Feather and the last of the old ones, the Limper, went down at Juniper, when we overcame the Dominator's bid for his own resurrection. Two are left. Whisper. Journey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The flying carpet wobbled because it had reached the boundary where Darling's null was enough to overpower its buoyancy. The Taken turned away, falling outward, got far enough to recover complete control. "Pity it didn't come straight in," I said. "And come down like a rock."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not stupid," Goblin said. "They're just scouting us now." He shook his head, shuddered. He knew something I did not. Probably something learned during his venture outside the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Campaign heating up?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep. What're you doing, bat-breath?" he snapped at One-Eye. "Pay attention."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little black man was ignoring the Taken. He stared at the wild wind-carved bluffs south of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our job is to stay alive," One-Eye said, so smug you knew he had something to get Goblin's goat. "That means don't get distracted by the first flashy show you see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell does that mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Means while the rest of you are eyeballing that clown up there another one sneaked up behind the bluffs and put somebody down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and I glared at the red cliffs. We saw nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too late," One-Eye said. "It's gone. But I reckon somebody should go collect the spy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I believed One-Eye. "Elmo! Get over here." I explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Beginning to move," he murmured. "Just when I was hoping they'd forgotten us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, they haven't," Goblin said. "They most certainly haven't." Again I felt he had something on his mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo scanned the ground between us and the bluffs. He knew it well. We all do. One day our lives may depend on our knowing it better than someone hunting us. "Okay," he told himself. "I see it. I'll take four men. After I see the Lieutenant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant does not come up for alerts. He and two other men camp in the doorway to Darling's quarters. If ever the enemy reaches Darling, it will be over their bodies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The flying carpet went away westward. I wondered why it had gone unchallenged by the creatures of the Plain. I went to the menhir that had spoken to me earlier. I asked. Instead of answering, it said, "It begins, Croaker. Mark this day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Right." And I do call that day the beginning, though parts of it started years before. That was the day of the first letter, the day of the Taken, and the day of Tracker and Toadkiller Dog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhir had a final remark. "There are strangers on the Plain." It would not defend the various flyers for not resisting the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo returned. I said, "The menhir says we might have more visitors."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo raised an eyebrow. "You and Silent have the next two watches?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be careful. Goblin. One-Eye. Come here." They put their heads together. Then Elmo picked four youngsters and went hunting.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219206" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36219208" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Six:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I went up top for my watch. There was no sign of Elmo and his men. The sun was low. The menhir was gone. There was no sound but the voice of the wind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent sat in shadow inside a reef of thousand-coral, dappled by sunlight come through twisted branches. Coral makes good cover. Few of the Plain's denizens dare its poisons. The watch is always in more danger from native exotica than from our enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I twisted and ducked between deadly spines, joined Silent. He is a long, lean, aging man. His dark eyes seemed focused on dreams that had died. I deposited my weapons. "Anything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, a single miniscule negative. I arranged the pads I had brought. The coral twisted around us, branches and fans climbing twenty feet high. We could see little but the creek crossing and a few dead menhirs, and the walking trees on the far slope. One tree stood beside the brook, taproot in the water. As though sensing my attention, it began a slow retreat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The visible Plain is barren. The usual desert life-lichens and scrub brush, snakes and lizards, scorpions and spiders, wild dogs and ground squirrels-is present but scarce. You encounter it mainly when that is inconvenient. Which sums up Plain life generally. You encounter the real strangeness only when that is most inopportune. The Lieutenant claims a man trying to commit suicide here could spend years without becoming uncomfortable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The predominant colors are reds and browns, rust, ochre, blood- and wine-shaded sandstones like the bluffs, with here and there the random stratum of orange. The corals lay down scattered white and pink reefs. True verdance is absent. Both walking trees and scrub plants have leaves a dusty grey-green, in which green exists mainly by acclamation. The menhirs, living and dead, are a stark grey-brown unlike any stone native to the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bloated shadow drifted across the wild scree skirting the cliffs. It covered many acres, was too dark to be the shadow of a cloud. "Windwhale?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It cruised the upper air between us and the sun, but I could not spot it. I had not seen one in years. Last time Elmo and I were crossing the Plain with Whisper, on the Lady's behalf… That long ago? Time does flee, and with little fun in it. "Strange waters under the bridge, my friend. Strange waters under."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, but he did not speak. He is Silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He has not spoken in all the years I have known him. Nor in the years he has been with the Company. Yet both One-Eye and my predecessor as Annalist say he is quite capable of speech. From hints accumulated over the years, it has become my firm conviction that in his youth, before he signed on, he swore a great oath never to speak. It being the iron law of the Company not to pry into a man's life before he enlisted, I have been unable to learn anything about the circumstances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I have seen him come close to speaking, when he was angry enough, or amused enough, but always he caught himself at the last instant. For a long time men made a game of baiting him, trying to get him to break his vow, but most abandoned the effort quickly. Silent had a hundred little ways of discouraging a man, like filling his bedroll with ticks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shadows lengthened. Stains of darkness spread. At last Silent rose, stepped over me, returned to the Hole, a darkly clad shadow moving through darkness. A strange man, Silent. Not only does he not talk; he does not gossip. How can you get a handle on a guy like that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yet he is one of my oldest and closest friends. Go explain that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Croaker." The voice was as hollow as a ghost's. I started. Malicious laughter rattled through the coral reef. A menhir had slipped up on me. I turned slightly. It stood square on the path Silent had taken, twelve feet tall and ugly. A runt of its kind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hello, rock."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Having amused itself at my expense, it now ignored me. Stayed as silent as a stone. Ha-ha.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs are our principal allies upon the Plain. They interlocute for the other sentient species. They let us know what is happening only when it suits them, however.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening with Elmo?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Are they magic? I guess not. Otherwise they would not survive inside the nullity Darling radiates. But what are they? Mysteries. Like most of the bizarre creatures out here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are strangers on the Plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. I know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Night creatures came out. Dots of luminescence fluttered and swooped above. The windwhale whose shadow I saw came far enough eastward to show me its glimmering underbelly. It would descend soon, trailing tendrils to trap whatever came its way. A breeze rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sagey scents trickled across my nostrils. Air chuckled and whispered and murmured and whistled in the coral. From farther away came the wind-chimes tinkle of Old Father Tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He is unique. First or last of his kind, I do not know. There he stands, twenty feet tall and ten thick, brooding beside the creek, radiating something akin to dread, his roots planted on the geographical center of the Plain. Silent, Goblin, and One-Eye have all tried to unravel his significance. They have gotten nowhere. The scarce wild human tribesmen of the Plain worship him. They say he has been here since the dawn. He does have that timeless feel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon rose. While it lay torpid and pregnant on the horizon I thought I saw something cross it. Taken? Or one of the Plain creatures?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A racket rose round the mouth of the Hole. I groaned. I did not need this. Goblin and One-Eye. For half a minute, uncharitably, I wished they had not come back. "Knock it off. I don't want to hear that crap."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin scooted up outside the coral, grinned, dared me to do something. He looked rested, recuperated. One-Eye asked, "Feeling cranky, Croaker?" "Damned straight. What're you doing out here?" "Needed some fresh air." He cocked his head, stared at the line of cliffs. So. Worried about Elmo. "He'll be all right," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know." One-Eye added, "I lied. Darling sent us. She felt something stir at the west edge of the null." "Ah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know what it was, Croaker." Suddenly he was defensive. Pained. He would have known but for Darling. He stands where I would were I stripped of my medical gear. Helpless to do what he has trained at all his life. "What're you going to do?" "Build a fire." "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That fire roared. One-Eye got so ambitious he dragged in enough deadwood to serve half a legion. The flames beat back the darkness till I could see fifty yards beyond the creek. The last walking trees had departed. Probably smelled One-Eye coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He and Goblin dragged in a fallen tree of the ordinary sort. We leave the walkers alone, except to right clumsies that trip on their own roots. Not that that happens often. They do not travel much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were bickering about who was dogging his share of work. They dropped the tree. "Fade," Goblin said, and in a moment there was no sign of them. Baffled, I surveyed the darkness. I saw nothing, heard nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found myself having trouble remaining awake. I broke up the dead tree for something to do. Then I felt the oddness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped in midbreak. How long had the menhirs been gathering? I counted fourteen on the verges of the light. They cast long, deep shadows. "What's up?" I asked, my nerves a bit frayed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are strangers on the Plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hell of a tune they played. I settled near the fire, back to it, tossed wood over my shoulder, building the flames. The light spread. I counted another ten menhirs. After a time I said, "That's not exactly news."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One comes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was new. And spoken with passion, something I had not witnessed before. Once, twice, I thought I caught a flicker of motion, but I could not be sure. Firelight is tricky. I piled on more wood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Movement for sure. Beyond the creek. Manshape coming toward me, slowly. Wearily. I settled in pretended boredom. He came nearer. Across his right shoulder he carried a saddle and blanket held with his left hand. In his right he carried a long wooden case, its polish gleaming in the firelight. It was seven feet long and four inches by eight. Curious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I noticed the dog as they crossed the creek. A mongrel, ragged, mangy, mostly a dirty white but with a black circle around one eye and a few daubs of black on its flanks. It limped, carrying one forepaw off the ground. The fire caught its eyes. They burned bright red.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man was over six feet, maybe thirty. He moved lithely even in his weariness. He had muscles on muscles. His tattered shirt revealed arms and chest crisscrossed with scars. His face was empty of emotion. He met my gaze as he approached the fire, neither smiling nor betraying unfriendly intent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chill touched me, lightly. He looked tough, but not tough enough to negotiate the Plain of Fear alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">First order of business would be to stall. Otto was due out to relieve me soon. The fire would alert him. He would see the stranger, then duck down and rouse the Hole. "Hello," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He halted, exchanged glances with his mongrel. The dog came forward slowly, sniffing the air, searching the surrounding night. It stopped a few feet away, shook as though wet, settled on its belly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stranger came forward just that far. "Take a load off," I invited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swung his saddle down, lowered his case, sat. He was stiff. He had trouble crossing his legs. "Lose your horse?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Broke a leg. West of here, five, six miles. I lost the trail."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are trails through the Plain. Some of them the Plain honors as safe. Sometimes. According to a formula known only to its denizens. Only someone desperate or stupid hazards them alone, though. This fellow did not look like an idiot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dog made a whuffling sound. The man scratched its ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where you headed?" "Place called the Fastness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That is the legend-name, the propaganda name, for the Hole. A calculated bit of glamor for the troops in faraway places. "Name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tracker. This is Toadkiller Dog." "Pleased to meet you, Tracker. Toadkiller." The dog grumbled. Tracker said, "You have to use his whole name. Toadkiller Dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept a straight face only because he was such a big, grim, tough-looking man. "What's this Fastness?" I asked. "I never heard of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lifted hard, dark eyes from the mutt, smiled. "I've heard it lies near Tokens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twice in one day? Was it the day of twos? No. Not bloody likely. I did not like the look of the man, either. Reminded me too much of our one-time brother Raven. Ice and iron. I donned my baffled face. It is a good one. "Tokens? That's a new one on me. Must be somewhere way the hell out east. What are you headed there for, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled again. His dog opened one eye, gave me a baleful look. They did not believe me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Carrying messages."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mainly a packet. Addressed to somebody named Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sucked spittle between teeth, slowly scanned the surrounding darkness. The circle of light had shrunk, but the number of menhirs remained undiminished. I wondered about One-Eye and Goblin. "Now there's a name I've heard," I said. "Some kind of sawbones." Again the dog gave me that look. This time, I decided, it was sarcastic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye stepped out of the darkness behind Tracker, sword ready to do the dirty deed. Damn, but he came quiet. Witchery or no.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave him away with a flicker of surprise. Tracker and his dog looked back. Both were startled to see someone there. The dog rose. Its hackles lifted. Then it sank to the ground again, having twisted till it could keep us both in sight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But then Goblin appeared, just as quietly. I smiled. Tracker glanced over. His eyes narrowed. He looked thoughtful, like a man discovering he was in a card game with rogues sharper than he had expected. Goblin chuckled. "He wants in, Croaker. I say we take him down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker's hand twitched toward the case he had carried. His animal growled. Tracker closed his eyes. When they opened, he was in control. His smile returned. "Croaker, eh? Then I've found the Fastness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've found it, friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slowly, so as not to alarm anyone, Tracker took an oilskin packet from his saddlebag. It was the twin of that I had received only half a day before. He offered it to me. I tucked it inside my shirt. "Where'd you get it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oar." He told the same story as the other messenger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "You've come that far, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We should take him in, then," I told One-Eye. He caught my meaning. We would let this messenger come face to face with the other. See if sparks flew. One-Eye grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Goblin. He approved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">None of us felt quite right about Tracker. I am not sure why.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go," I said. I hoisted myself off the ground with my bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker eyed the stave. He started to say something, shut up. As though he recognized it. I smiled as I turned away. Maybe he thought he had fallen foul of the Lady. "Follow me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did. And Goblin and One-Eye followed him, neither helping with his gear. His dog limped beside him, nose to the ground. Before we went inside, I glanced southward, concerned. When would Elmo come home?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We put Tracker and mutt into a guarded cell. They did not protest. I went to my quarters after wakening Otto, who was overdue. I tried to sleep, but that damned packet lay on the table screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was not sure I wanted to read its contents.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It won the battle.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36394487" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36394490" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Seven:
THE SECOND LETTER <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz peered through his transit, sighting on the prow of the Great Barrow. He stepped back, noted the angle, opened one of his crude field maps. This was where he had unearthed the TelleKurre axe. "Wish Occules' descriptions weren't so vague. This must have been the flank of their formation. The axis of their line should have paralleled the others, so. Shifter and the knights would have bunched up over there. I'll be damned."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground there humped slightly. Good. Less ground water to damage buried artifacts. But the overgrowth was dense. Scrub oak. Wild roses. Poison ivy. Especially poison ivy. Bomanz hated that pestilential weed. He started scratching just thinking about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" He whirled, raising his rake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whoa! Take it easy, Bo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter with you? Sneaking up like that. Ain't funny, Besand. Want me to rake that idiot grin off your face?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ooh! Nasty today, aren't we?" Besand was a lean old man approximately Bomanz's age. His shoulders slumped, following his head, which thrust forward as though he was sniffing a trail. Great blue veins humped the backs of his hands. Liver spots dotted his skin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell do you expect? Come jumping out of the bushes at a man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bushes? What bushes? Your conscience bothering you, Bo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besand, you've been trying to trap me since the moon was green. Why don't you give up? First Jasmine gives me a hard way to go, then Tokar buys me out so I have to go digging fresh stock, and now I have to dance with you? Go away. I'm not in the mood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand grinned a big, lopsided grin, revealing pickets of rotten teeth. "I haven't caught you, Bo, but that don't mean you're innocent. It just means I never caught you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I'm not innocent, you must be damned stupid not to catch me in forty years. Damn, man, why the hell can't you make life easy for both of us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand laughed. "Real soon now I'll be out of your hair for good. They're putting me out to pasture."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz leaned on his rake, considered the Guardsman. Besand exuded a sour odor of pain. "Really? I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bet you are. My replacement might be smart enough to catch you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give it a rest. You want to know what I'm doing? Figuring where the TelleKurre knights went down. Tokar wants spectacular stuff. That's the best I can do. Short of going over there and giving you an excuse to hang me. Hand me that dowser."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand passed the divining rod. "Mound robbing, eh? Tokar suggest that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Icy needles burrowed into Bomanz's spine. This was more than a casual question. "We have to do this constantly? Haven't we known each other long enough to do without the cat-and-mouse?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I enjoy it, Bo." Besand trailed him to the overgrown hummock. "Going to have to clear this out. Just can't keep up anymore. No; enough men, not enough money."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could you get it right away? That's where I want to dig, I think. Poison ivy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, 'ware poison ivy, Bo." Besand snickered. Each summer Bomanz cursed his way through numerous botanical afflictions. "About Tokar…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't deal with people who want to break the law. That's been my rule forever. Nobody bothers me anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oblique but acceptable."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz's wand twitched. "I'll be dipped in sheep shit. Right in the middle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at it jump. Must've buried them in one big hole."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About Tokar…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about him, dammit? You want to hang him, go ahead. Just give me time to hook up with somebody else who can handle my business as good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want to hang anybody, Bo. I just want to warn you. There's a rumor out of Oar that says he's a Resurrectionist. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz dropped his rod. He gobbled air. "Really? A Resurrectionist?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Monitor scrutinized him intently. "Just a rumor. I hear all kinds. Thought you might want to know. We're as close as two men get around here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz accepted the olive branch. "Yeah. Honestly, he's never dropped a hint. Whew! That's a load to drop on a man." A load which deserved some heavy thinking. "Don't tell anybody what I found. That thief Men fu…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand laughed yet again. His mirth had a sephulchral quality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You enjoy your work, don't you? I mean, harassing people who don't dare fight back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Careful, Bo. I could drag you in for questioning." Besand spun, stalked away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sneered at his back. Of course Besand enjoyed his job. It let him play dictator. He could do anything to anyone without having to answer for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once the Dominator and his minions fell and were buried in their mounds behind barriers wrought of the finest magicks of their day, the White Rose decreed that an eternal guard be posted. A guard beholden to none, charged with preventing the resurrection of the undead evil beneath the mounds. The White Rose understood human nature. Always there would be those who would see profit in using or following the Dominator. Always there would be worshippers of evil who wished their champion freed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Resurrectionists appeared almost before the grass sprouted on the barrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar a Resurrectionist? Bomanz thought. Don't I have enough trouble? Besand will pitch his tent in my pocket now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had no interest in reviving the old evils. He merely wanted to make contact with one of them so as to illuminate several ancient mysteries.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand was out of sight. He should stomp all the way back to his quarters. There would be time for a few forbidden observations. Bomanz realigned his transit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Barrowland did not have the look of great evil, only of neglect. Four hundred years of vegetation and weather had restructured that once marvelous work. The barrows and mystical landscaping were all but lost amidst the brush covering them. The Eternal Guard no longer had the wherewithal to perform adequate upkeep. Monitor Besand was fighting a desperate rearguard action against time itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing grew well on the Barrowland. The vegetation was twisted and stunted. Still, the shapes of the mounds, and the menhirs and fetishes which bound the Taken, were often concealed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had spent a lifetime sorting out which mound was which, who lay where, and where each menhir and fetish stood. His master chart, his silken treasure, was nearly complete. He could, almost, thread the maze. He was so close he was tempted to try before he was truly ready. But he was no fool. He meant to try nursing sweet milk from the blackest of cows. He dared make no mistake. He had Besand on the one hand, the poisonous old wickedness on the other. But if he succeeded… Ah, if he succeeded. If he made contact and nursed away the secrets… Man's knowledge would be extended dramatically. He would become the mightiest of living mages. His fame would course with the wind. Jasmine would have everything she quarreled about sacrificing. If he made contact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He would, by damn! Neither fear nor the infirmity of age would stay him now. A few months and he would have the last key.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had lived his lies so long he often lied to himself. Even in his honest moments he never confessed his most powerful motive, his intellectual affair with the Lady. It was she who had intrigued him from the beginning, she whom he was trying to contact, she who made the literature endlessly fascinating. Of all the lords of the Domination she was the most shadowed, the most surrounded by myth, the least encumbered by historical fact. Some scholars called her the greatest beauty ever to have lived, claiming that simply to have seen her was to have fallen into her thrall. Some called her the true motive force of the Domination. A few admitted that their documentaries were really little more than romantic fantasies. Others admitted nothing while demonstrably embellishing. Bomanz had become perpetually bemused while still a student.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Back in his attic, he spread his silken chart. His day had not been a complete waste. He had located a previously unknown menhir and had identified the spells it anchored. And he had found the TelleKurre site. That would buy the mutton and beans.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glared at the chart, as if pure will might conjure the information he needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two diagrams. The upper was a five-pointed star within a slightly larger circle. Such had been the shape of the Barrowland when newly constructed. The star had stood a fathom above the surrounding terrain, retained by limestone walls. The circle represented the outer bank of a moat, the earth from which had been used to build the barrows, the star, and a pentagon within the star. Today the moat was little more than boggy ground. Besand's predecessors had been unable to keep up with Nature.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Within the star, drawn off the points where the arms met, was a pentagon another fathom high. It, too, had been retained, but the walls had fallen and become overgrown. Central to the pentagon, on a north-south axis, lay the Great Barrow where the Dominator slept.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the points of his chart star, clockwise from the top, Bomanz had penned the odd numbers from one to nine. Accompanying each was a name: Soulcatcher, Shapeshifter. Nightcrawler, Stormbringer, Bonegnasher. The occupants of the five outer barrows had been identified. The five inner points were numbered evenly, beginning at the right foot of the arm of the star pointing northward. At four was the Howler, at eight the Limper. The graves of three of the Ten Who Were Taken remained unidentified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's in that damned six spot?" Bomanz muttered. He slammed a fist against the table. "Dammit!" Four years and he was no closer to that name. The mask concealing that identity was the one remaining substantial barrier. Everything else was plain technical application, a matter of negating wardspells, then of contacting the great one in the central mound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wizards of the White Rose had left volumes bragging about their performances of their art, but not one word of where their victims lay. Such was human nature. Besand bragged about the fish he caught, the bait he used, and seldom produced the veritable piscine trophy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Below his star chart Bomanz had drawn a second portraying the central mound. It was a rectangle on a north-south axis surrounded by and filled with ranks of symbols. Outside each corner was a representation of a menhir which, on the Barrowland, was a twelve-foot pillar topped by a two-faced owl's head. One face glared inward, the other out. The menhirs formed the corner posts anchoring the first line of spells warding the Great Barrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Along the sides were the line posts, little circles representing wooden fetish poles. Most had rotted and fallen, their spells drooping with them. The Eternal Guard had no staff wizard capable of restoring or replacing them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Within the mound proper there were symbols ranked in three rectangles of declining size. The outermost resembled pawns, the next knights, and the inner, elephants. The crypt of the Dominator was surrounded by men who had given their lives to bring him down. Ghosts were the middle line between old evil and a world capable of recalling it. Bomanz anticipated no difficulty getting past them. The ghosts were there, in his opinion, to discourage common grave robbers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Within the three rectangles Bomanz had drawn a dragon with its tail in its mouth. Legend said a great dragon lay curled round the crypt, more alive than the Lady or Dominator, catnapping the centuries away while awaiting an attempt to recall the trapped evil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had no way of coping with the dragon, but he had no need, either. He meant to communicate with the crypt, not to open it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn! If he could only lay hands on an old Guardsman's amulet… The early Guards had worn amulets which had allowed them to go into the Barrowland to keep it up. The amulets still existed, though they were no longer used. Besand wore one. The others he kept squirreled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand. That madman. That sadist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz considered the Monitor his closest acquaintance- but a friend, never. No, never a friend. Sad commentary on his life, that the man nearest him would be one who would jump at a chance to torture or hang him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was that about retirement? Someone outside this forsaken forest had recalled the Barrowland?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz! Are you going to eat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz muttered imprecations and rolled his chart.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
     
    
   
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dream came that night. Something sirenic called him. He was young again, single, strolling the lane that passed his house. A woman waved. Who was she? He didn't know. He didn't care. He loved her. Laughing, he ran toward her… Floating steps. Effort took him no nearer. Her face saddened. She faded… "Don't go!" he called. "Please!" But she disappeared, and took with her his sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A vast starless night devoured his dream. He floated in a clearing within a forest unseen. Slowly, slowly, a diffuse silver something limned the trees. A big star with a long silver mane. He watched it grow till its tail spanned the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twinge of uncertainty. Shadow of fear. "It's coming right at me!" He cringed, threw his arm across his face. The silver ball filled the sky. It had a face. The woman's face…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bo! Stop it!" Jasmine punched him again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat up. "Uhn? What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were yelling. That nightmare again?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He listened to his heart hammer, sighed. Could it take much more? He was an old man. "The same one." It recurred at unpredictable intervals. "It was stronger this time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe you ought to see a dream doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Out here?" He snorted disgustedly. "I don't need a dream doctor anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Probably just your conscience. Nagging you for luring Stancil back from Oar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't lure… Go to sleep." To his amazement, she rolled over, for once unwilling to pursue their squabble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared into the darkness. It had been so much clearer. Almost too crisp and obvious. Was there a meaning hidden behind the dream's warning against tampering?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slowly, slowly, the mood of the beginning of the dream returned. That sense of being summoned, of being but one intuitive step from heart's desire. It felt good. His tension drained away. He fell asleep smiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand and Bomanz stood watching Guardsmen clear the brush from Bomanz's site. Bomanz suddenly spat, "Don't bum it, you idiot! Stop him, Besand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand shook his head. A Guard with a torch backed away from the brush pile. "Son, you don't burn poison ivy. The smoke spreads the poison."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz was scratching. And wondering why his companion was being so reasonable. Besand smirked. "Get itchy just thinking about it, don't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's your other itch." He pointed. Bomanz saw his competitor Men fu observing from a safe distance. He growled, "I never hated anybody, but he tempts me. He has no ethics, no scruples, and no conscience. He's a thief and a liar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know him, Bo. And lucky for you I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me ask you something, Besand. Monitor Besand. How come you don't aggravate him the way you do me? What do you mean, lucky?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He accused you of Resurrectionist tendencies. I don't shadow him because his many virtues include cowardice. He doesn't have the hair to recover proscribed artifacts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I do? That little wart libeled me? With capital crimes? If I weren't an old man…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'll get his, Bo. And you do have the guts. I've just never caught you with the inclination."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz rolled his eyes. "Here we go. The veiled accusations…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not so veiled, my friend. There's a moral laxness in you, an unwillingness to accept the existence of evil, that stinks like an old corpse. Give it its head and I'll catch you, Bo. The wicked are cunning, but they always betray themselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For an instant Bomanz thought his world was falling apart. Then he realized Besand was fishing. A dedicated fisherman, the Monitor. Shaken, he countered, "I'm sick of your sadism. If you really suspected anything, you'd be on me like a snake on shit. Legalities never meant anything to you Guards. You're probably lying about Men fu. You'd haul your own mother in on the word of a sorrier villain than him. You're sick, Besand. You know that? Diseased. Right here." He tapped his temple. "You can't relate without cruelty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're pushing your luck again. Bo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz backed down. Fright and temper had been talking. In his own odd way Besand had shown him special tolerance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was as though he were necessary to the Monitor's emotional health. Besand needed one person, outside the Guard, whom he did not victimize. Someone whose immunity repaid him in a sort of validation… I'm symbolic of the people he defends? Bomanz snorted. That was rich.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That business about being retired. Did he say more than I heard? Is he calling off all bets because he's leaving? Maybe he does have a sense for scofflaws. Maybe he wants to go out with a flash.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What about the new man? Another monster, unblinkered by the gossamer I've spun across Besand's eyes? Maybe someone who will come in like the bull into the corrida? And Tokar, the possible Resurrectionist… How does he fit?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter?" Besand asked. Concern colored his words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ulcer's bothering me." Bomanz massaged his temples, hoping the headache would not come too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Plant your markers. Men fu might jump you right here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." Bomanz took a half dozen stakes from his pack. Each trailed a strip of yellow cloth. He planted them. Custom dictated that the ground so circumscribed was his to exploit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men fu could make night raids, or whatever, and Bomanz would have no legal recourse. Claims had no standing in law, only in private treaty. The antique miners exercised their own sanctions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men fu was under every sanction but violence. Nothing altered his thieving ways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wish Stancil was here," Bomanz said. "He could watch at night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll growl at him. That's always good for a few days. I heard Stance was coming home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. For the summer. We're excited. We haven't seen him in four years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Friend of Tokar, isn't he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz whirled. "Damn you! You never let up, do you?" He spoke softly, in genuine rage, without the shouts and curses and dramatic gestures of his habitual semi-rage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, Bo. I'll drop it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd better. You'd damned well better. I won't have you crawling all over him all summer. Won't have it, you hear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said I'd drop it."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36395024" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36395026" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eight:
THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie came and went at will around the Guard compound. The walls inside the headquarters building boasted several dozen old paintings of the Barrowland. He studied those often while he cleaned, shivering. His reaction was not unique. The Dominator's attempt to escape through Juniper had rocked the Lady's empire. Stories of his cruelties had fed upon themselves and grown fat in the centuries since the White Rose laid him down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Barrowland remained quiet. Those who watched saw nothing untoward. Morale rose. The old evil had shot its bolt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would wait throughout eternity if need be. It could not die. Its apparent last hope was no hope. The Lady was immortal, too. She would allow nothing to open her husband's grave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The paintings recorded progressive decay. The latest dated from shortly after the Lady's resurrection. Even then the Barrowland had been much more whole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes Corbie went to the edge of town, stared at the Great Barrow, shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once there had been amulets which permitted Guards safely within the spells making the Barrowland lethal, to allow for upkeep. But those had disappeared. The Guard could but watch and wait now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time ambled. Slow and grey and limping, Corbie became a town fixture. He spoke seldom, but occasionally enlivened the lie sessions at Blue Willy with a wooly anecdote from the Forsberg campaigns. The fire blazed in his eyes then. No one doubted he had been there, even if he saw those days a little walleyed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made no true friends. Rumor said he did share the occasional private chess game with the Monitor, Colonel Sweet, for whom he had done some special small services. And of course, there was the recruit Case, who devoured his tales and accompanied him on his hobbling walks. Rumor said Corbie could read. Case hoped to learn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one ever visited the second floor of Corbie's home. There, in the heart of the night, he slowly unravelled the treacherous mare's nest of a tale that time and dishonesty had distorted out of any parallel with truth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only parts were encrypted. Most was hastily scribbled in TelleKurre, the principal language of the Domination era. But scattered passages were in UchiTelle, a TelleKurre regional vulgate. Times were, when battling those passages, Corbie smiled grimly. He might be the only man alive able to puzzle through those sometimes fragmentary sentences. "Benefit of a classical education," he would murmur with a certain sarcasm. I Then he would become reflective, introspective. He would take one of his late night walks to shake revenant memory. One's own yesterday is a ghost that will not be laid. Death is the only exorcism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He saw himself as a craftsman, did Corbie. A smith. An armorer cautiously forging a lethal sword. Like his predecessor in that house, he had dedicated his life to the search for a fragment of knowledge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The winter was astonishing. The first snows came early, after an early and unusually damp autumn. It snowed often and heavily. Spring came late.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the forests north of the Barrowland, where only scattered clans dwelt, life was harsh. Tribesmen appeared bearing furs to trade for food. Factors for the furriers of Oar were ecstatic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Old folks called the winter a harbinger of worse to come. But old folks always see today's weather as more harsh than that of yore. Or milder. Never, never the same.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Spring sprung. A swift thaw set the creeks and rivers raging. The Great Tragic, which looped within three miles of the Barrowland, spread miles beyond its banks. It abducted tens and hundreds of thousands of trees. The flood was so spectacular that scores from town wandered out to watch it from a hilltop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For most, the novelty faded. But Corbie limped out any day Case could accompany him. Case was yet possessed of dreams. Corbie indulged him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why so interested in the river, Corbie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Maybe because of its grand statement."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie swung an encompassing hand. "The vastness. The ongoing rage. See how significant we are?" Brown water gnawed at the hill, furious, fumbling forests of driftwood. Less turbulent arms hugged the hill, probed the woods behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case nodded. "Like the feeling I get when I look at the stars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Yes. But this is more personal. Closer to home. Not so?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess." Case sounded baffled. Corbie smiled. Legacy of a farm youth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go back. It's peaked. But I don't trust it with those clouds rolling in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rain did threaten. Were the river to rise much more, the hill would become an island.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case helped Corbie cross the boggy parts and up to the crest of the low rise which kept the flood from reaching cleared land. Much of that was a lake now, shallow enough to be waded if some fool dared. Under grey skies the Great Barrow stood out poorly, reflecting off the water as a dark lump. Corbie shuddered. "Case. He's still there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The youth leaned on his spear, interested only because Corbie was interested. He wanted to get out of the drizzle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Dominator, lad. Whatever else did not escape. Waiting. Filling with ever more hatred for the living."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case looked at Corbie. The older man was taut with tension. He seemed frightened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he gets loose, pity the world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But didn't the Lady finish him in Juniper?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She stopped him. She didn't destroy him. That may not be possible… Well, it must be. He has to be vulnerable somehow. But if the White Rose couldn't harm him…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Rose wasn't so strong, Corbie. She couldn't even hurt the Taken. Or even their minions. All she could do was bind and bury them. It took the Lady and the Rebel…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Rebel? I doubt that. She did it." Corbie lunged forward, forcing his leg. He marched along the edge of the lake. His gaze remained fixed on the Great Barrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case feared Corbie was obsessed with the Barrowland. As a Guard, he had to be concerned. Though the Lady had exterminated the Resurrectionists in his grandfather's time, still that mound exerted its dark attraction. Monitor Sweet remained frightened someone would revive that idiocy. He wanted to caution Corbie, could think of no polite way to phrase himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wind stirred the lake. Ripples ran from the Barrow toward them. Both shivered. "Wish this weather would break," Corbie muttered. "Time for tea?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The weather continued chill and wet. Summer came late. Autumn arrived early. When the Great Tragic did at last recede, it left a mud plain strewn with the wrecks of grand trees. Its channel had shifted a half mile westward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woodland tribes continued selling furs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Serendipity. Corbie was near done renovating. He was restoring a closet. In removing a wooden clothes rod he fumbled. The rod separated into parts when it hit the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knelt. He stared. His heart hammered. A slim spindle of white silk lay exposed… Gently, gently, he put the rod back together, carried it upstairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Carefully, carefully, he removed the silk, unrolled it. His stomach knotted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Bomanz's chart of the Barrowland, complete with notes about which Taken lay where, where fetishes were located and why, the puissance of protective spells, and a scatter of known resting places of minions of the Taken who had gone into the ground with their captains. A cluttered chart indeed. Mostly annotated in TelleKurre.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Also noted were burial sites outside the Barrowland proper. Most of the ordinary fallen had gone into mass graves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The battle fired Corbie's imagination. For a moment he saw the Dominator's forces standing firm, dying to the last man. He saw wave after wave of the White Rose horde give themselves up to contain the shadow within the trap. Overhead, the Great Comet seared the sky, a vast flaming scimitar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could only imagine, though. There were no reliable histories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He commiserated with Bomanz. Poor foolish little man, dreaming, seeking the truth. He had not earned his dark legend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie remained fixed over the chart all night, letting it seep into bone and soul. It did little to help him translate, but it did illuminate the Barrowland some. And even more, it illuminated a wizard so dedicated he had spent his entire adult life studying the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dawn's light stirred Corbie. For a moment he doubted himself. Could he become prey to the same fatal passion?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36395270" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36395273" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Nine:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant himself stirred me out. "Elmo's back, Croaker. Eat some breakfast, then report to the conference room." He was a sour man getting sourer every day. Sometimes I regret having voted for him after the Captain died in Juniper. But the Captain wished it. It was his dying request.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be there soonest," I said, piling out without my customary growl. I grabbed clothing, stirred papers, silently mocked myself. How often did I doubt voting for the Captain himself? Yet when he wanted to resign, we did not let him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My quarters look nothing like a physician's den. The walls are floor to ceiling with old books. I have read most, after having studied the languages in which they are written. Some are as old as the Company itself, recounting ancient histories. Some are noble genealogies, stolen from widely dispersed old temples and civil offices. The rarest, and most interesting, chronicle the rise and growth of the Domination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rarest of all are those in TelleKurre. The followers of the White Rose were not gentle victors. They burned books and cities, transported women and children, profaned ancient works of art and famous shrines. The customary afterglow of a great conflagration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So there is little left to key one into the languages and thinking and history of the losers. Some of the most plainly written documents I possess remain totally inaccessible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How I wish Raven were with us still, instead of dwelling among the dead men. He had a passing familiarity with written TelleKurre. Few outside the Lady's intimate circle do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin stuck his head in. "You coming or not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I cried on his shoulder. It was the old lament. No progress. He laughed. "Go blow in your girlfriend's ear. She might help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When will you guys let up?" It had been fifteen years since I wrote my last simpleminded romance about the Lady. That was before the long retreat which led the Rebel to his doom before the Tower at Charm. They do not let you forget.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never, Croaker. Never. Who else has spent the night with her? Who else goes carpet-flying with her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I would rather forget. Those were times of terror, not romance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She became aware of my annalistic endeavors and asked me to show her side. More or less. She did not censor or dictate, but did insist I remain factual and impartial. I recall thinking she expected defeat, wanted an unbiased history set down somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin glanced at the mound of documents. "You can't get any handle on it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think there is a handle. Everything I do translate turns out a big nothing. Somebody's expense record. An appointment calendar. A promotions list. A letter from some officer to a friend at court. Everything way older than what I'm looking for."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin raised an eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll keep on trying." There was something there. We took them from Whisper, when she was a Rebel. They meant a lot to her. And our mentor then, Soulcatcher, thought them of empire-toppling significance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thoughtfully, Goblin remarked, "Sometimes the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Maybe you should look for what ties it all together."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thought had occurred to me. A name here, there, elsewhere, revealing the wake of someone through his or her earlier days. Maybe I would find it. The comet would not return for a long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I had my doubts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling is a young thing yet, just into her middle twenties. But the bloom of youth has abandoned her. Hard years have piled on hard years. There is little feminine about her. She had no chance to develop in that direction. Even after two years on the Plain none of us think of her as Woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She is tall, maybe two inches under six feet. Her eyes are a washed-out blue that often seems vacant, but they become swords of ice when she is thwarted. Her hair is blonde, as from much exposure to the sun. Without continuous attention it hangs in straggles and strings. Not vain, she keeps it shorter than is stylish. In dress, too, she leans toward the utilitarian. Some first-time visitors are offended because she dresses so masculine. But she leaves them with no doubts that she can handle business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her role came to her unwanted, but she has made peace with it, has assumed it with stubborn determination. She shows a wisdom remarkable for her age, and for one handicapped as she is. Raven taught her well during those few years he was her guardian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was pacing when I arrived. The conference room is earth-sided, smokey, crowded even when empty. It smells of long occupation by too many unclean men. The old messenger from Oar was there. So were Tracker and Corder and several other outsiders. Most of the Company were present. I finger-signed a greeting. Darling gave me a sisterly hug, asked if I had any progress to report.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke for the group and signed for her. "I am sure we don't have all the documents we found in the Forest of Cloud. Not just because I can't identify what I'm looking for, either. Everything I do have is too old."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling's features are regular. Nothing stands out. Yet you sense character, will, that this woman cannot be broken. She has been to Hell already. It did not touch her as a child. She will not be touched now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was not pleased. She signed, "We will not have the time we thought."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My attention was half elsewhere. I had hoped for sparks between Tracker and the other westerner. On a gut level I had responded negatively to Tracker. I found myself with an irrational hope for evidence to sustain that reaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not surprising. The cell structure of the movement keeps our sympathizers insulated from one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling wanted to hear from Goblin and One-Eye next. Goblin used his squeakiest voice. "Everything we heard is true. They are reinforcing their garrisons. But Corder can tell you better. For us, the mission was a bust. They were ready. They chased us all over the Plain. We were lucky to get away. We didn't get no help, either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs and their weird pals are on our side, supposedly. Sometimes I wonder. They are unpredictable. They help or don't according to a formula only they understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling was little interested in details of the failed raid. She moved on to Corder. He said, "Armies are gathering on both sides of the Plain. Under command of the Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Taken?" I asked. I knew of only the two. He sounded like he meant many.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A chill then. There is a longtime rumor that the Lady has been quiet so long because she is raising a new crop of Taken. I had not believed it. The age is sorrowfully short of characters of the magnificently villainous vitality of those the Dominator took in olden times: Soulcatcher, the Hanged Man, Nightcrawler, Shapeshifter, the Limper, and such. Those were nastymen of the grand scope, nearly as wild and hairy in their wickedness as the Lady and Dominator themselves. This is the era of the weak sister, excepting only Darling and Whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corder responded shyly. "The rumors are true, Lord."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lord. Me. Because I stand near the heart of the dream. I hate it, yet eat it up. "Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They may not be Stormbringers or Howlers, these new Taken." He smiled feebly. "Sir Tucker observed that the old Taken were wild devils as unpredictable as the lightning, and the new ones are the predictable tame thunder of bureaucracy. If you follow my meaning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do. Go on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is believed that there are six new ones, Lord. Sir Tucker believes they are about to be unleashed. Thus the great buildup around the Plain. Sir Tucker believes the Lady has made a competition of our destruction."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tucker. Our most dedicated agent. One of the few survivors of the long siege of Rust. His hatred knows no bounds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corder had a strange look. A green-around-the-edges look. A look that said there was more, and all bad. "Well?" I said. "Spit it out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The names of the Taken have been enscribed on stellae raised in their respective demenses. At Rust the army commander is named Benefice. His Stella appeared after a carpet arrived by night. He has not actually been seen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That bore investigation. Only the Taken can manage a carpet. But no carpet can reach Rust without crossing the Plain of Fear. The menhirs have reported no such passage. "Benefice? Interesting name. The others?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In Thud the Stella bears the name Blister."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chuckles. I said, "I liked it better when the names were descriptive. Like the Limper, Moonbiter, the Faceless Man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At Frost we have one called the Creeper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's better." Darling gave me a cautionary look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At Rue there is one called Learned. And at Hull, one called Scorn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Scorn. I like that, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The western bounds of the Plain are held by Whisper and Journey, both operating from a village called Spit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being a natural mathematical phenom, I summed and said, "That's five new ones and two old. Where is the other new one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. The only other is the commander over all. His Stella stands in the military compound outside Rust."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The way he said that abraded my nerves. He was pale. He started shaking. A premonition gripped me. I knew I would not like what he said next. But, "Well?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That Stella bears the sigil of the Limper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Right. So right. I did not like it at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The feeling was universal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh!" Goblin shrieked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye said, "Holy shit," in a soft awed tone that was all the more meaningful for its reserve.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat down. Right there. Right in the middle of the floor. I folded my head in my hands. I wanted to cry. "Impossible," I said. "I killed him. With my own hands." And saying it, I did not believe it anymore, though I had had faith in that fact for years. "But how?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't keep a good man down," Elmo chided. That he was shaken was evidenced by the smart remark. Elmo says nothing gratuitously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The feud between the Limper and the Company dates to our arrival north of the Sea of Torments, for it was then that we enlisted Raven, a mysterious native of Opal, a man of former high estate who had been done out of his titles and livings by minions of the Limper. Raven was as tough as they come, and utterly fearless. The robbery sanctioned by Taken or not, he struck back. He slew the villains, among them the Limper's most competent people. Then our path kept crossing the Limper's. Each time something worsened the weather between us…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the confusion after Juniper, Limper thought to settle with us. I engineered an ambush. He charged in. "I would have bet anything I killed him." I tell you, at that moment I was as rattled as ever I have been. I was on the precipice of panic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye noticed. "Don't get hysterical, Croaker. We survived him before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's one of the old ones, idiot! One of the real Taken. From times when they had real wizards. And he's never really been allowed to go full speed at us before. And with all that help." Eight Taken and five armies to assault the Plain of Fear. Seldom were there more than seventy of us here in the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My head filled with terrible visions. Those Taken might be second-rate, but they were so many. Their fury would fire the Plain. Whisper and the Limper have campaigned here before. They are not ignorant of the Plain's perils. In fact, Whisper battled here both as a Rebel and as Taken. She won most of the most famous battles of the eastern war.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reason reasserted itself but did little to brighten tomorrow. Once I thought, I reached the inescapeable conclusion that Whisper knows the Plain too well. Might even have allies out here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling touched my shoulder. That was more calming than any words from friends. Her confidence is contagious. She signed, "Now we know," and smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, time has become a hanging hammer about to fall. The long wait for the comet has been rendered irrelevant. We have to survive right now. Trying for a bright side, I said, "The Limper's true name is somewhere in my document collection."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But that recalled my problem. "Darling, the specific document I want is not there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She raised an eyebrow. Unable to speak, she has developed one of the most expressive faces I've ever seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have to have a sit-down. When you have time. To go over exactly what happened to those papers while Raven had them. Some are missing. They were there when I turned them over to Soulcatcher. They were there when I got them back from her. I am sure they were there when Raven took them. What happened to them later?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tonight," she signed. "I will make time." She seemed distracted suddenly. Because I mentioned Raven? He meant a lot to her, but you'd think the edge would be off by now. Unless there was more to the story than I knew. And that was plenty possible. I really have no idea what their relationship became in the years after Raven left the Company. His death certainly bothers her still. Because it was so pointless. I mean, after surviving everything the shadow threw his way, he drowned in a public bath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant says there are nights she cries herself to sleep. He does not know why, but he suspects Raven is at the root.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I have asked her about those years when they were on their own, but she will not tell the tale. The emotional impression I get is one of sorrow and grave disappointment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pushed her troubles away now, turned to Tracker and his mutt. Behind them, the men Elmo caught on the bluff squirmed. Their turn was coming. They knew the reputation of the Black Company.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But we did not get to them. Nor even to Tracker and Toadkiller Dog. For the watch above shrieked another alert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was getting tiresome.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
     
    
   
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The rider crossed the stream as I entered the coral. Water splashed. His mount staggered. It was covered with foam. Never again would it run well. It hurt me to see an animal so broken. But its rider had cause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Taken darted about just beyond the bound of the null. One flung a violet bolt. It perished long before it reached us. One-Eye cackled and raised a middle finger. "Always wanted to do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, wonder of wonders," Goblin squeaked, looking the other way. A number of mantas, big blue-blacks, soared off the rosy bluffs, caught updrafts. Must have been a dozen, though they were hard to count, maneuvering as they did to avoid stealing one another's wind. These were giants of their kind. Their wings spanned almost a hundred feet. When they were high enough, they dove at the Taken in pairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rider halted, fell. He had an arrow in his back. He remained conscious just long enough to gasp, "Tokens!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first manta pair, seeming to move with slow stately grace, though actually they streaked ten times faster than a man can run, ripped past the nearer Taken just inside Darling's null. Each loosed a brilliant lightning bolt. Lightning could speed where Taken witchery would not survive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One bolt hit. Taken and carpet reeled, glowed briefly. Smoke appeared. The carpet twisted and spun earthward. We sent up a ragged cheer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Taken regained control, rose clumsily, drifted away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knelt by the messenger. He was little more than a boy. He was alive. He had a chance if I got to work. "A little help here! One-Eye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Manta pairs ripped along the boundary of the null, blasting away at the second Taken. This one evaded effortlessly, did nothing to fight back. "That's Whisper," Elmo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said. She knows her way around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye grumbled, "You going to help this kid or not, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. All right." I hated to miss the show. It was the first I had seen so many mantas, the first I had seen them support us. I wanted to see more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," said Elmo, while calming the boy's horse and going through his saddlebags, "another missive for our esteemed annalist." He proffered another oilskin packet. Baffled, I tucked it under my arm, then helped One-Eye carry the messenger down into the Hole.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36395704" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36395706" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Ten:
BOMANZ'S STORY <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine's squeal rattled the windows and doors. "Bomanz! You come down here! Come down right now, you hear me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sighed. A man couldn't get five minutes alone. What the hell did he get married for? Why did any man? You spent the rest of your life doing hard time, doing what other people wanted, not what you wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm coming, dammit! Damned woman can't blow her nose without me there to hold her hand," he added sotto voce. He did a lot of talking under his breath. He had feelings to vent, and peace to maintain. He compromised. Always, he compromised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stamped downstairs, each footfall a declaration of irritation. He mocked himself as he went: You know you're getting old when everything aggravates you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want? Where are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the shop." There was an odd note in her voice. Suppressed excitement, he decided. He entered the shop warily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Surprise!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His world came alive. Grouchiness deserted him. "Stance!" He flung himself at his son. Powerful arms crushed him. "Here already? We didn't expect you till next week."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got away early. You're getting pudgy, Pop." Stancil opened his arms to include Jasmine in a three-way hug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's your mother's cooking. Times are good. We're eating regular. Tokar's been…" He glimpsed a faded, ugly shadow. "So how are you? Back up. Let me look at you. You were still a boy when you left."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Jasmine: "Doesn't he look great? So tall and healthy. And such nice clothes." Mock concern. "You haven't been up to any funny business, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mother! What could a junior instructor get up to?" He met his father's eye, smiled a smile that said "Same old Mom."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil was four inches taller than his father, in his middle twenties, and looked athletic despite his profession. More like an adventurer than a would-be don, Bomanz thought. Of course, times changed. It had been eons since his own university days. Maybe standards had changed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He recalled the laughter and pranks and all-night, dreadfully serious debates on the meaning of it all, and was bitten by an imp of nostalgia. What had become of that mentally quick, foxy young Bomanz? Some silent, unseen Guardsman of the mind had interred him in a barrow in the back of his brain, and there he lay dreaming, while a bald, jowly, potbellied gnome gradually usurped him… They steal our yesterdays and leave us no youth but that of our children…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, come on. Tell us about your studies." Get out of that self-pitying mindset, Bomanz, you old fool. "Four years and nothing but letters about doing laundry and debates at the Stranded Dolphin. Stranded he would be in Oar. Before I die I want to see the sea. I never have." Old fool. Dream out loud and that's the best you can do? Would they really laugh if you told them the youth is still alive in there somewhere?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His mind wanders," Jasmine explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you calling senile?" Bomanz snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop. Mom. Give me a break. I just got here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bpmanz gobbled air. "He's right. Peace. Truce. Armistice. You referee, Stance. Two old warhorses like us are set in their ways."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine said, "Stance promised me a surprise before you came down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" Bomanz asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm engaged. To be married."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How can this be? This is my son. My baby. I was changing his diapers last week… Time, thou unspeakable assassin, I feel thy cold breath. I hear thine iron-shod hooves…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmph. Young fool. Sorry. Tell us about her, since you won't tell us about anything else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would if I could get a word in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz, be quiet. Tell us about her, Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You probably know something already. She's Tokar's sister, Glory."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz's stomach plunged to the level of his heels. Tokar's sister. Tokar, who might be a Resurrectionist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter now, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tokar's sister, eh? What do you know about that family?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong with them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't say anything was. I asked you what you know about them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough to know I want to marry Glory. Enough to know Tokar is my best friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough to know if they're Resurrectionists?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence slammed into the shop. Bomanz stared at his son. Stancil stared back. Twice he started to respond, changed his mind. Tension rasped the air. "Pop…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what Besand thinks. The Guard is watching Tokar. And me, now. It's the time of the comet, Stance. The tenth passage. Besand smells some big Resurrectionist plot. He's making life hard. This thing about Tokar will make it worse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil sucked spittle between his teeth. He sighed. "Maybe it was a mistake, coming home. I won't get anything done wasting time ducking Besand and fighting with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Stance," Jasmine said. "Your father won't start anything. Bo, you weren't starting a fight. You're not going to start one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm." My son engaged to a Resurrectionist? He turned away, took a deep breath, quietly berated himself. Jumping to conclusions. On word no better than Besand's. "Son, I'm sorry. He's been riding me." He glanced at Jasmine. Besand wasn't his only persecutor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Pop. How's the research coming?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine grumbled and muttered. Bomanz said, "This conversation is crazy. We're all asking questions and nobody is answering."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give me some money, Bo," Jasmine said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You two won't say hello before you start your plotting. I might as well go marketing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz waited. She eschewed her arsenal of pointed remarks about Woman's lot. He shrugged, dribbled coins into her palm. "Let's go upstairs, Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's mellowed," Stancil said as they entered the attic room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hadn't noticed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So have you. But the house hasn't changed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz lighted the lamp. "Cluttered as ever," he admitted. He grabbed his hiding spear. "Got to make a new one of these. It's getting worn." He spread his chart on the little table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not much improvement, Pop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get rid of Besand." He tapped the sixth barrow. "Right there. The only thing standing in my way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That route the only option, Pop? Could you get the top two? Or even one. That would leave you a fifty-fifty chance of guessing the other two."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't guess. This isn't a card game. You can't deal a new hand if you play your first one wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil took the one chair, stared at the chart. He drummed the tabletop with his fingers. Bomanz fidgeted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A week passed. The family settled into new rhythms, including living with the Monitor's intensified surveillance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz was cleaning a weapon from the TelleKurre site. A trove, that was. A veritable trove. A mass burial, with weapons and armor almost perfectly preserved. Stancil entered the shop. Bomanz looked up. "Rough night?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not bad. He's ready to give up. Only came round once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Men fu or Besand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Men fu. Besand was there a half dozen times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were working shifts. Men fu was the public excuse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In reality, Bomanz hoped to wear Besand down before the comet's return. It was not working.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your mother has breakfast ready." Bomanz began assembling his pack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait up, Pop. I'll go too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need to rest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's all right. I feel like digging."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay." Something was bothering the boy. Maybe he was ready to talk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd never done much of that. Their pre-university relationship had been one of confrontation, with Stance always on the defensive… He had grown, these four years, but the boy was still there inside. He was not yet ready to face his father man-to-man. And Bomanz had not grown enough to forget that Stancil was his little boy. Those growths sometimes never come. One day the son is looking back at his own son, wondering what happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz resumed rubbing flakes off a mace. He sneered at himself. Thinking about relationships. This isn't like you, you old coot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Pop," Stance called from the kitchen. "Almost forgot. I spotted the comet last night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A claw reached in and grabbed a handful of Bomanz's guts. The comet! Couldn't be. Not already. He was not ready for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nervy little bastard," Bomanz spat. He and Stancil knelt in the brush, watching Men fu toss artifacts from their diggings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ought to break his leg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait here a minute. I'll circle around and cut him off when he runs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz snorted. "Not worth the trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's worth it to me, Pop. Just to keep the balance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right." Bomanz watched Men fu pop up to look around, ugly little head jerking like that of a nervous pigeon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dropped back into the excavation. Bomanz stalked forward. He drew close enough to hear the thief talking to himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Lovely. Lovely. A stone fortune. Stone fortune. That fat little ape don't deserve it. All the time sucking up to Besand. That creep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fat little ape? You asked for it." Bomanz shed his pack and tools, got a firm grip on his spade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men fu came up out of the pit, his arms filled. His eyes grew huge. His mouth worked soundlessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz wound up. "Now Bo, don't be…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz swung. Men fu danced, took the blow on his hip, squawked, dropped his burden, flailed the air, and toppled into the pit. He scrambled out the far side, squealing like a wounded hog. Bomanz wobbled after him, landed a mighty stroke across his behind. Men fu ran. Bomanz charged after him, spade high, yelling, "Stand still, you thieving son-of-a-bitch! Take it like a man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a last mighty swing. It missed. It flung him around. He fell, bounced back up, continued the chase sans avenging spade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil threw himself into Men fu's way. The thief put his head down and bulled through. Bomanz ploughed into Stancil. Father and son rolled in a tangle of limbs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz gasped, "What the hell? He's gone now." He sprawled on his back, panted. Stancil started laughing. "What's so damned funny?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The look on his face."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sniggered. "You weren't much help." They guffawed. Finally, Bomanz gasped, "I'd better find my spade."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil helped his father stand. "Pop, I wish you could have seen yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glad I didn't. Lucky I didn't have a stroke." He lapsed into a fit of giggles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Just can't laugh and catch my breath at the same time. Oh. Oh, my. I won't be able to move again if I sit down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go dig. That'll keep you loose. You dropped the spade around here, didn't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The giggles haunted Bomanz all morning. He would recall Men fu's flailing retreat and his self-control would go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop?" Stancil was working the far side of the pit. "Look here. This may be why he didn't notice you coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz limped over, watched Stancil brush loose soil off a perfectly preserved breastplate. It was as black and shiny as rubbed ebony. An ornate ornament in silver bossed its center. "Uhm." Bomanz popped out of the pit. "Nobody around. That half-man, half-beast design. That's Shapeshifter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He led the TelleKurre."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He wouldn't be buried here, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's his armor, Pop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see that, dammit." He popped up like a curious groundhog. No one in sight. "Sit up here and keep watch. I'll dig it out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sit, Pop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were up all night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a lot younger than you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm feeling just fine, thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What color is the sky, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blue. What kind of question…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallelujah. We agree on something. You're the most contrary old goat…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stancil!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Pop. We'll take turns. Flip a coin to see who goes first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz lost. He settled down with his pack as a backrest. "Going to have to spread the dig out. Going straight down like this, it'll cave in first heavy rain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Be a lot of mud. Ought to think about a drainage trench. Hey, Pop, there's nobody in this thing. Looks like the rest of his armor, too." Stancil had recovered a gauntlet and uncovered part of a greave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? I hate to turn it in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Turn it in? Why? Tokar could get a fortune for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe so. But what if friend Men fu did spot it? He'll tell Besand out of spite. We've got to stay on his good side. We don't need this stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not to mention he might have planted it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It shouldn't be here, right? And no body inside the armor. And the soil is loose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz grunted. Besand was capable of a frame. "Leave everything the way it is. I'll go get him."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
     
    
   
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sour-faced old fart," Stancil muttered as the Monitor departed. "I bet he did plant it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No sense cussing. We can't do anything." Bomanz settled against his pack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Loafing. I don't feel like digging anymore." He ached all over. It had been a busy morning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We should get what we can while the weather is good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go ahead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop…" Stancil thought better of it. "How come you and Mom fight all the time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz let his thoughts drift. The truth was elusive. Stance would not remember the good years. "I guess because people change and we don't want them to." He could find no better words. "You start out with a woman; she's magical and mysterious and marvelous, the way they sing it. Then you get to know each other. The excitement goes away. It gets comfortable. Then even that fades. She starts to sag and turn grey and get lined and you feel cheated. You remember the fey, shy one you met and talked with till her father threatened to plant a boot in your ass. You resent this stranger. So you take a poke. I guess it's the same for your mother. Inside, I'm still twenty. Stance. Only if I pass a mirror, or if my body won't do what I want, do I realize that I'm an old man. I don't see the potbelly and the varicose veins and the grey hair where I've got any left. She has to live with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Every time I see a mirror I'm amazed. I end up wondering who's taken over the outside of me. A disgusting old goat, from the look of him. The kind I used to snicker at when I was twenty. He scares me, Stance. He looks like a dying man. I'm trapped inside him, and I'm not ready to go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil sat down. His father never talked about his feelings. "Does it have to be that way?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe not, but it always is… "Thinking about Glory, Stance? I don't know. You can't get out of getting old. You can't get out of having a relationship change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe none of it has to be. If we manage this…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me about maybes, Stance. I've been living on maybes for thirty years." His ulcer took a sample nibble from his gut. "Maybe Besand is right. For the wrong reasons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop! What are you talking about? You've given your whole life to this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What I'm saying, Stance, is that I'm scared. It's one thing to chase a dream. It's another to catch it. You never get what you expect. I have a premonition of disaster. The dream might be stillborn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil's expression ran through a series of changes. "But you've got to…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have to do anything but be Bomanz the antiquary. Your mother and I don't have much longer. This dig should yield enough to keep us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you went ahead, you'd have a lot more years and a lot more…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm scared, Stance. Of going either way. That happens when you get older. Change is threatening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm talking about the death of dreams, son. About losing the big, wild make-believes that keep you going. The impossible dreams. That kind of jolly pretend is dead. For me. All I can see is rotten teeth in a killer's smile."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil hoisted himself out of the pit. He plucked a strand of sweetgrass, sucked it while gazing into the sky. "Pop, how did you feel right before you married Mom?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Numb."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil laughed. "Okay, how about when you went to ask her father? On the way there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought I was going to dribble down my leg. You never met your grandfather. He's the one who got them started telling troll stories."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like you feel now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something. Yes. But it's not the same. I was younger, and I had a reward to look forward to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you don't now? Aren't the stakes bigger?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Both ways. Win or lose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Know what? You're having what they call a crisis of self-confidence. That's all. Couple of days and you'll be raring to go again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That evening, after Stancil had gone out, Bomanz told Jasmine, "That's a wise boy we've got. We talked today. Really talked, for the first time. He surprised me." "Why? He's your son, isn't he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dream came stronger than ever before, more quickly than ever. It wakened Bomanz twice in one night. He gave up trying to sleep. He went and sat on the front stoop, taking in the moonlight. The night was bright. He could make out rude buildings along the dirty street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some town, he thought, remembering the glories of Oar. The Guard, us antiquaries, and a few people who scratch a living serving us and the pilgrims. Hardly any of those anymore, even with the Domination fashionable. The Barrowland is so disreputable nobody wants to look at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard footsteps. A shadow approached. "Bo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm." The Monitor settled on the next step down. "What're you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Couldn't sleep. Been thinking about how the Barrowland has gotten so blighted even self-respecting Resurrectionists don't come here anymore. You? You're not taking the night patrol yourself, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Couldn't sleep either. That damned comet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz searched the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't see it from here. Have to go around back. You're right. Nobody knows we're here anymore. Us or those things in the ground over there. I don't know what's worse. Neglect or plain stupidity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm?" Something was gnawing at the Monitor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bo, they're not replacing me because I'm old or incompetent, though I guess I'm enough of both. They're moving me out so somebody's nephew can have a post. An exile for a black sheep. That hurts, Bo. That really hurts. They've forgotten what this place is. They're telling me I wasted my whole life doing a job any idiot can sleep his way through."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The world is full of fools."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fools die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They laugh when I talk about the comet or about Resurrectionists striking this summer. They can't believe that I believe. They don't believe there's anything under those mounds. Not anything still alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bring them out here. Walk them through the Barrowland after dark."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried. They told me to quit whining if I wanted a pension."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've done all you can, then. It's on their heads."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I took an oath, Bo. I was serious about it then, and I'm serious now. This job is all I have. You've got Jasmine and Stance. I might as well have been a monk. Now they're discarding me for some young…" He began making strange noises.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sobs? Bomanz thought. From the Monitor? From this man with a heart of flint and all the mercy of a shark? He took Besand's elbow. "Let's go look at the comet. I haven't seen it yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand got hold of himself. "You haven't? That's hard to believe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why? I haven't been up late. Stancil has done the night work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never mind. Slipping into my antagonistic character again. We should've been lawyers, you and I. We've got the argumentative turn of mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could be right. Spent a lot of time lately wondering what I'm doing out here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing here, Bo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was going to get rich. I was going to study the old books, open a few rich graves, go back to Oar and buy into my uncle's drayage business." Idly, Bomanz wondered how much of his faked past Besand accepted. He had lived it so long that he now remembered some fraudulent anecdotes as factual unless he thought hard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Laziness. Plain old-fashioned laziness. I found out there's a big difference between dreaming and getting in there and doing. It was easier to dig just enough to get by and spend the rest of the time loafing." Bomanz made a sour face. He was striking near the truth. His researches were, in fact, partly an excuse for not competing. He simply did not have the drive of a Tokar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You haven't had too bad a life. One or two hard winters when Stancil was a pup. But we all went through those. A helping hand here or there and we all survived. There she is." Besand indicated the sky over the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz gasped. It was exactly what he had seen in his dreams. "Showy, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait till it gets close. It'll fill half the sky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pretty, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stunning, I'd say. But also a harbinger. An ill omen. The old writers say it'll keep returning till the Dominator is freed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've lived with that stuff most of my life, Besand, and even I find it hard to believe there's anything to it. Wait! I get that spooky feeling around the Barrowland, too. But I just can't believe those creatures could rise again after four hundred years in the ground."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bo, maybe you are honest. If you are, take a hint. When I leave, you leave. Take the TelleKurre stuff and head for Oar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're starting to sound like Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean it. Some idiot unbeliever kid takes over here, all Hell is going to break loose. Literally. Get out while you can."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could be right. I'm thinking about going back. But what would I do? I don't know Oar anymore. The way Stance tells it, I'd get lost.-Hell, this is home now. I never really realized that. This dump is home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know what you mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz looked at that great silver blade in the sky. Soon now…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's going on out there? Who is that?" came from Bomanz's back door. "You clear off, hear? I'll have the Guard after you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's me, Jasmine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand laughed. "And the Monitor, mistress. The Guard is here already."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bo, what're you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talking. Looking at the stars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be getting along," Besand said. "See you tomorrow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From his tone Bomanz knew tomorrow would be a day of normal harassments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take care." He settled on the dewy back step, let the cool night wash over him. Birds called in the Old Forest, their voices lonely. A cricket chirruped optimistically. Humid air barely stirred the remnants of his hair. Jasmine came out and sat beside him. "Couldn't sleep," he told her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Must be going around." He glanced at the comet, was startled by an instant of deja vu. "Remember the summer we came here? When we stayed up to see the comet? It was a night like this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took his hand, entwined her fingers with his. "You're reading my mind. Our first month anniversary. Those were fool kids, those two."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They still are, inside."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36396582" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36396584" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eleven:
THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">For Corbie the unravelling came quickly now. When he kept his mind on business. But more and more he became distracted by that old silk map. Those strange old names. In TelleKurre they had a ring absent in modern tongues. Soulcatcher. Stormbringer. Moonbiter. The Hanged Man. They seemed so much more potent in the old tongue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But they were dead. The only great ones left were the Lady and the monster who started it all, out there under the earth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Often he went to a small window and stared toward the Barrowland. The devil in the earth. Calling, perhaps. Surrounded by lesser champions, few of them recalled in the legends and few the old wizard identified. Bomanz had been interested only in the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So many fetishes. And a dragon. And fallen champions of the White Rose, their shades set to eternal guard duty. It seemed so much more dramatic than the struggle today.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie laughed. The past was always more interesting than the present. For those who lived through the first great struggle it must have seemed deadly slow, too. Only in the final battle were the legends and legacies created. A few days out of decades.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He worked less now, now that he had a sound place to live and a little saved. He spent more time wandering, especially by night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case came calling one morning, before Corbie was fully wakened. He allowed the youth inside. "Tea?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're nervous. What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Colonel Sweet wants you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Chess again? Or work?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither. He's worried about your wandering around at night. I told him I go with you and all you do is look at the stars and stuff. Guess he's getting paranoid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie smiled a smile he did not feel. "Just doing his job. Guess my life looks odd. Getting past it. Lost in my own mind. Do I act senile sometimes? Here. Sugar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please." Sugar was a treat. The Guard could not provide it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any rush? I haven't eaten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He didn't put it that way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good." More time to prepare. Fool. He should have guessed his walks would attract attention. The Guard was paranoid by design.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie prepared oats and bacon, which he shared with Case. For all they were well paid, the Guard ate poorly. Because of ongoing foul weather the Oar road was all but impassable. The army quartermasters strove valiantly but often could not get through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, let's see the man," Corbie said. And: "That's the last bacon. The Colonel better think about farming here, just in case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They talked about it." Corbie had befriended Case partly because he served at headquarters. Colonel Sweet would play chess and talk old times, but he never revealed any plans.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not enough land. Not enough fodder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pigs. They get fat on acorns."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Need herdsmen. Else the tribemen would get them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel ushered Corbie into his private quarters. Corbie joked, "Don't you ever work? Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The operation runs itself. Been rolling four centuries, that's the way it goes. I have a problem. Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie grimaced. "Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Appearances, Corbie. This is a world that lives by perceptions. You aren't presenting a proper appearance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had a visitor last month. From Charm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither did anyone else. Except me. What you might call a prolonged surprise inspection. They happen occasionally." Sweet settled behind his worktable, pushed aside the chess set over which they had contested so often. He drew a long sheet of southern paper from a cubby at his right knee. Corbie glimpsed printing in a crabbed hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Taken? Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie never sirred anyone except as an afterthought. The habit disturbed Sweet. "Yes. With the Lady's carte blanche. He did not abuse it. But he did make recommendations. And he did mention people whose behavior he found unacceptable. Your name was first on the list. What the hell are you doing, wandering around all night?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thinking. I can't sleep. The war did something. The things I saw… The guerrillas. You don't want to go to sleep because they might attack. If you do sleep, you dream about the blood. Homes and fields burning. Animals and children screaming. That was the worst. The babies crying. I still hear the babies crying." He exaggerated very little. Each time he went to bed he had to get past the crying of babes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He told most of the truth and wound it into an imaginative lie. Babies crying. The babies who haunted him were his own, innocents abandoned in a moment of fear of commitment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," Sweet replied. "I know. At Rust they killed their children rather than let us capture them. The hardest men in the regiment wept when they saw the mothers hurling their infants down from the walls, then jumping after them. I never married. I have no children. But I know what you mean. Did you have any?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A son," Corbie said, in a voice both soft and strained, from a body almost shaking with pain. "And a daughter. Twins, they were. Long ago and far away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what became of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I would hope they're living still. They would be about Case's age."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet raised an eyebrow but let the remark slide past. "And their mother?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie's eyes became iron. Hot iron, like a brand. "Dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie did not respond. His expression suggested he was not sorry himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You understand what I'm saying, Corbie?" Sweet asked. "You were noticed by one of the Taken. That's never healthy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I get the message. Which was it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't say. Which of the Taken are where when could be of interest to the Rebel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie snorted. "What Rebel? We wiped them out at Charm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps. But there is that White Rose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought they were going to get her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. The stories you hear. Going to have her in chains before the month is out. Been saying that since first we heard of her. She's light on her feet. Maybe light enough." Sweet's smile faded. "At least I won't be around next time the comet comes. Brandy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Chess? Or do you have a job?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not right away. I'll go you one game."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Halfway through, Sweet said, "Remember what I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eh? The Taken claimed he was leaving. But there's no guarantee. Could be behind a bush someplace watching." "I'll pay more attention to what I'm doing." He would. The last thing he wanted was a Taken interested in him. He had come too far to waste himself now.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36396832" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36396834" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twelve:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the watch. My belly gnawed, weighted by lead. All day dots had traversed the sky, high up. A pair were there now, patroling. The continuous presence of Taken was not a good omen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Closer, two manta pairs planed the afternoon air. They would ride the updrafts up, then circle down, taunting the Taken, trying to lure them across the boundary. They resented outsiders. The more so these, because these would crush them but for Darling-another intruder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walking trees were on the move beyond the creek. The dead menhirs glistened, somehow changed from their usual dullness. Things were happening on the Plain. No outsider could comprehend their import fully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One great shadow clung to the desert. Way up there, daring the Taken, a lone windwhale hovered. An occasional, barely perceptible bass roar tumbled down. I'd never heard one talk before. They do so only when enraged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A breeze muttered and whimpered in the coral. Old Father Tree sang counterpoint to the windwhale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A menhir spoke behind me. "Your enemies come soon." I shivered. It recalled the flavor of a nightmare I have been having lately. I can recall no specifics afterward, only that it is filled with terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I refused to be unsettled by the sneaky stone. Much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What are they? Where did they come from? Why are they different from normal stones? For that matter, why is the Plain ridiculously different? Why so bellicose? We are here on sufferance only, allied against a greater enemy. Shatter the Lady and see how our friendship prospers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How soon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When they are ready."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brilliant, old stone. Positively illuminating."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My sarcasm did not go unnoticed, just unremarked. The menhirs have their own flare for sarcasm and the sharp-edged tongue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Five armies," said the voice. "They will not wait long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I indicated the sky. "The Taken cruise at will. Unchallenged."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They have not challenged." True. But a weak excuse. Allies should be allies. More, windwhales and mantas usually consider appearance on the Plain sufficient challenge. It occurred to me the Taken might have bought them off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not so." The menhir had moved. Its shadow now fell across my toes. I finally looked. This one was just ten feet tall. A real runt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had guessed my thought. Damn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It continued telling me what I already knew. "It is not possible to deal from a position of strength always. Take care. There has been a call to the Peoples to reassess your acceptance on the Plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So. This overtalkative hunk was an emissary. The natives were scared. Some thought they could save themselves trouble by booting us out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Peoples" doesn't properly describe the parliament of species that makes decisions here, but I know no better title.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If the menhirs are to be believed-and they lie only by omission or indirection-over forty intelligent species inhabit the Plain of Fear. Those I know include menhirs, walking trees, windwhales and mantas, a handful of humans (both primitives and hermits), two kinds of lizard, a bird like a buzzard, a giant white bat, and an extremely scarce critter that looks like a camel-centaur put together backward. I mean, the humanoid half is behind. The creature runs toward what most would take as its fanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No doubt I have encountered others without recognizing them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin says there is a tiny rock monkey that lives in the hearts of the great coral reefs. He claims it looks like a miniature One-Eye. But Goblin is not to be trusted where One-Eye is concerned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am charged with delivering a warning," the menhir said. "There are strangers on the Plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I asked questions. When it did not answer I turned irritably. It was gone. "Damned stone…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker and his mutt stood in the mouth of the Hole, watching the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling interviewed Tracker thoroughly, I'm told. I missed that. She was satisfied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had an argument with Elmo. Elmo liked Tracker. "Reminds me of Raven," he said. "We could use a few hundred Ravens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Reminds me of Raven, too. And that's what I don't like." But what good arguing? We cannot always like everyone. Darling thinks he is all right. Elmo thinks so. The Lieutenant accepts him. Why should I be different? Hell, if he is from the same mold as Raven, the Lady is in trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He will be tested soon enough. Darling has something in mind. Something preemptive, I suspect. Possibly toward Rust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rust. Where the Limper had raised his Stella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Limper. Back from the dead. I did everything but burn the body. Should have done that, I guess. Bloody hell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scary part is wondering if he is the only one. Did others survive apparent certain death? Are they hidden away now, waiting to astound the world? "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow fell across my feet. I returned to the living. Tracker stood beside me. "You look distressed," he said. He did show one every courtesy, I must admit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked toward those patroling reminders of the struggle. I said, "I am a soldier, grown old and tired and confused. I have been fighting since before you were born. And I have yet to see anything gained."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled a thin, almost secretive smile. It made me uncomfortable. Everything he did made me uncomfortable. Even his damned dog made me uncomfortable, and it did nothing but sleep. Much as it loafed, how had it managed the journey from Oar? Too much like work. I swear, that dog won't even get in a hurry to eat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be of good faith, Croaker," Tracker said. "She will fall." He spoke with absolute conviction. "She hasn't the strength to tame the world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was that scariness again. True or not, the way he expressed the sentiment was disturbing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll bring them all down." He indicated the Taken. "They aren't real, like those of old."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog sneezed on Tracker's boot. He looked down. I thought he would kick the mutt. But instead he bent to scratch the dog's ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Toadkiller Dog. What kind of name is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, it's an old joke. From when we were both a lot younger. He took a shine to it. Insists on it now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker seemed only half there. His eyes were vacant, his gaze far away, though he continued to watch the Taken. Weird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least he admitted to having been young. There was a hint of human vulnerability in that. It is the apparent invulnerability of characters like Tracker and Raven that rattles me.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36397042" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36397044" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirteen:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yo! Croaker!" The Lieutenant had come outside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let Tracker cover you." I had only minutes left in my watch. "Darling wants you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Tracker. He shrugged. "Go ahead." He assumed a stance facing westward. I swear, it was like he turned the vigilance on. As though on the instant he became the ultimate sentinel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even Toadkiller Dog opened an eye and went to watching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I brushed the dog's scalp with my fingers as I left, what I thought a friendly gesture. He growled. "Be like that," I said, and joined the Lieutenant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He seemed disturbed. Generally, he is a cold customer. "What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's got one of her wild hairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, boy. "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rust."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh yeah! Brilliant! Get it all over with fast! I thought that was just talk. I trust you tried to argue her out of it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You would think a man would grow accustomed to stench after having lived with it for years. But as we descended into the Hole my nose wrinkled and tightened. You just can't keep a bunch of people stuffed in a pit without ventilation. We have precious little.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried. She says, 'Load the wagon. Let me worry about the mule being blind.'"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's right most of the time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a damned military genius. But that don't mean she can pull off any cockamamie scheme she dreams up. Some dreams are nightmares. Hell, Croaker. The Limper is out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which is where we started when we reached the conference room. Silent and I bore the brunt because we are Darling's favorites. Seldom do I see such unanimity among my brethren. Even Goblin and One-Eye spoke with a single voice, and those two will fight over whether it is night or day with the sun at high noon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling prowled like a caged beast. She had doubts. They nagged her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two Taken in Rust," I argued. "That's what Corder said. One of them our oldest and nastiest enemy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Break them and we will shatter their entire plan of campaign," she countered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Break them? Girl, you're talking about the Limper. I proved he is invincible before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. You proved that he will survive unless you are thorough. You might have burned him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yeah. Or cut him into pieces and fed him to the fish, or given him a swim in a vat of acid or a dust bath in quicklime. But those things take time. We had the Lady herself coming down on us. We barely got away as it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Assuming we can get there undetected-which I do not believe for a moment-and manage total surprise, how long before all the Taken get on us?" I signed vigorously, more angry than frightened. I never refuse Darling, ever. But this time I was ready.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes flashed. For the first time ever I saw her battle her temper. She signed, "If you will not accept orders you should not be here. I am not the Lady. I do not sacrifice pawns for small gain. I agree, there is great risk in this operation. But far less than you argue. With potential impact far greater than you suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Convince me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That I cannot do. If you are captured, you must not know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was primed. "You just telling me that is enough for the Taken to get on a trail." Maybe I was more scared than I could admit. Or maybe it was just an all-time case of the contraries.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she signed. There was something more, but she held it back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent dropped a hand on my shoulder. He had given up. The Lieutenant joined him. "You're overstepping yourself, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling repeated, "If you will not accept orders. Croaker, leave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She meant it. Really! I stood with mouth open, stunned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right!" I stamped out. I went to my quarters, shuffled those obstinate old papers and, of course, found not a damned thing new.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They left me alone for a while. Then Elmo came. He did not announce himself. I just glanced up and found him leaning against the door frame. By then I was half ashamed of my performance. "Yeah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mail call," he said, and tossed me another of those oilskin packets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I snapped it out of the air. He departed without explaining its appearance. I placed it on my worktable, wondered. Who? I knew no one in Oar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Was it some sort of trick?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady is patient and clever. I would not put past her some grand maneuver using me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I guess I must have thought about it an hour before, reluctantly, I opened the packet.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36397212" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36397214" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fourteen:
THE STORY OF BOMANZ <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz and Tokar stood in one corner of the shop. "What do you think?" Bomanz asked. "Bring a good price?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar stared at the piece de resistance of Bomanz's new TelleKurre collection, a skeleton in perfectly restored armor. "It's marvelous, Bo. How did you do it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wired the joints together. See the forehead jewel? I'm not up on Domination heraldry, but wouldn't a ruby mean somebody important?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A king. That would be the skull of King Broke."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His bones, too. And armor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're rich, Bo. I'll just take a commission on this one. A wedding present to the family. You took me serious when I said come up with something good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Monitor confiscated the best. We had Shapeshifter's armor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar had brought helpers this trip, a pair of hulking gorilla teamsters. They were carrying antiques to wagons outside. Their back-and-forth made Bomanz nervous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really? Damn! I'd give my left arm for that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz spread his hands apologetically. "What could I do? Besand keeps me on a short leash. Anyway, you know my policy. I'm stretching it to deal with a future daughter-in-law's brother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How's that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stuck my foot in it now, Bomanz thought. He ploughed ahead. "Besand has heard you're a Resurrectionist. Stance and I are getting a hard time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now that's sick. I'm sorry, Bo. Resurrectionist! I shot my mouth off once, years ago, and said even the Dominator would be better for Oar than our clown Mayor. One stupid remark! They never let you forget. It's not enough that they hounded my father into an early grave. Now they have to torment me and my friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had no idea what Tokar was talking about. He would have to ask Stance. But it reassured him; which was all he really wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tokar, keep the profits from this lot. For Stance and Glory. As my wedding present. Have they set a date?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing definite. After his sabbatical and thesis. Come winter, I guess. Thinking about coming down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thinking about moving back to Oar. I don't have enough fight left to break in a new Monitor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar chuckled. "Probably won't be much call for Domination artifacts after this summer anyway. I'll see if I can find you a place. You do work like the king here, you won't have trouble making a living."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You really like it? I was thinking about doing his horse, too." Bomanz felt a surge of pride in his craftsmanship.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Horse? Really? They buried his horse with him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Armor and all. I don't know who put the TelleKurre in the ground, but they didn't loot. We've got a whole box of coins and jewelry and badges."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Domination coinage? That's hotter than hot. Most of it was melted down. A Domination coin in good shape can bring fifty times its metal value."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Leave King Whosis here. I'll put his horse together for him. Pick him up next trip."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't be long, either. I'll unload and zip right back. Where's Stance, anyway? I wanted to say hello." Tokar waved one of those leather wallets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glory?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glory. She ought to write romances. Going to break me, buying paper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's out to the dig. Let's go. Jasmine! I'm taking Tokar out to the dig."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">During the walk Bomanz kept glancing over his shoulder. The comet was now so bright it could be seen, barely, by day. "Going to be one hell of a sight when it peaks out," he predicted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect so." Tokar's smile made Bomanz nervous. I'm imagining, he told himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil used his back to open the shop door. He dumped a load of weapons. "We're getting mined out, Pop. Pretty much all common junk last night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz twisted a strand of copper wire, wriggled out of the framework supporting the horse skeleton. "Then let Men fu take over. Not much more room here anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shop was almost impassable. Bomanz would not have to dig for years, were that his inclination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looking good," Stance said of the horse, tarrying before going for another armful from a borrowed cart. "You'll have to show me how to get the king on top so I can put them together when I go back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I may do it myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thought you'd decided to stay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. I don't know. When are we going to start that thesis?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm working on it. Making notes. Once I get organized I can write it up like that." He snapped his fingers. "Don't worry. I've got plenty of time." He went outside again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine brought tea. "I thought I heard Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz jerked his head. "Outside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked for a place to set teapot and cups. "You're going to have to get this mess organized."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I keep telling myself that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil returned. "Enough odds and ends here to make a suit of armor. Long as nobody tries to wear it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tea?" his mother asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Pop, I came past headquarters. That new Monitor is here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Already?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to love him. He brought a coach and three wagons filled with clothing for his mistress. And a platoon of servants."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Ha! He'll die when Besand shows him his quarters." The Monitor lived in a cell more fit for a monk than for the most powerful man in the province.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He deserves it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By reputation. Polite people call him the Jackal. If I'd known it was him… What could I have done? Nothing. He's lucky his family got him sent here. Somebody would have killed him if he'd stayed around the city."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not popular, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll find out if you stay. Come back, Pop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a job to do, Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How much longer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A couple of days. Or forever. You know. I've got to get that name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop, we could try now. While things are confused."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No experiments, Stance. I want it cold. I won't take chances with the Ten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil wanted to argue but sipped tea instead. He went out to the cart again. When he returned, he said, "Tokar should be turned around by now. Maybe he'll bring more than two wagons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz chuckled. "Maybe he'll bring more than wagons, you mean? Like maybe a sister?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was thinking that, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are you going to get a thesis written?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always a spare moment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz ran a dust cloth over the jewel in the brow of his dead king's horse. "Enough for now, Dobbin. Going out to the dig."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Swing by and check the excitement," Stancil suggested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't miss it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand came to the dig that afternoon. He caught Bomanz napping. "What is this?" he demanded. "Sleeping on the job?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sat up. "You know me. Just getting out of the house. I hear the new man showed up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand spat. "Don't mention him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bad?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Worse than I expected. Mark me, Bo. Today writes the end of an era. Those fools will rue it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You decide what you're going to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go fishing. Bloody go fishing. As far from here as I can get. Take a day to break him in, then head south."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always wanted to retire to one of the Jewel Cities. I've never seen the sea. So you're headed out right away, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to sound so damned cheerful about it. You and your Resurrectionist friends have won, but I'll go knowing you didn't beat me on my own ground."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We haven't fought much lately. That's no reason to make up for lost time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Yeah. That was uncalled for. Sorry. It's frustration. I'm helpless, and everything is going under."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be that bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can. I have my sources, Bo. I'm not some lone crazy. There are knowledgeable men in Oar who fear the same things I do. They say the Resurrectionists are going to try something. You'll see, too. Unless you get out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I probably will. Stancil knows this guy. But I can't go before we finish the dig."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand gave him a narrow-eyed look. "Bo, I ought to make you clean up before I go. Looks like Hell puked here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz was not a fastidious worker. For a hundred feet around his pit the earth was littered with bones, useless scraps of old gear, and miscellaneous trash. A gruesome sight. Bomanz did not notice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why bother? It'll be overgrown in a year. Besides, I don't want to make Men fu work any harder than he has to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're all heart, Bo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I work at it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See you around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right." And Bomanz tried to puzzle out what he had done wrong, what Besand had come for and not found. He shrugged, snuggled into the grass, closed his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman beckoned. Never had the dream been so clear. And never so successful. He went to her and took her hand, and she led him along a cool green tree-lined path. Thin shafts of sunlight stabbed through the foliage. Golden dust danced in the beams. She spoke, but he could not decipher her words. He did not mind. He was content.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gold became silver. Silver became a great blunt blade stabbing a nighttime sky, obscuring the weaker stars. The comet came down, came down… and a great female face opened upon him. It was shouting. Shouting angrily. And he could not hear…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The comet vanished. A full moon rode the diamond-studded sky. A great shadow crossed the stars, obscuring the Milky Way. A head, Bomanz realized. A head of darkness. A wolf's head, snapping at the moon… Then it was gone. He was with the woman again, walking that forest path, tripping over sunbeams. She was promising him something…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wakened. Jasmine was shaking him. "Bo! You're dreaming again. Wake up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm all right," he mumbled. "It wasn't that bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to stop eating so many onions. A man your age, and with an ulcer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sat up, patted his paunch. The ulcer had not bothered him lately. Maybe he had too much else on his mind. He swung his feet to the floor and stared into the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thinking about going out to see Stance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need your rest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bull. Old as I am? Old people don't need to rest. Can't afford to. Don't have the time left to waste." He felt for his boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine muttered something typical. He ignored her. He had that down to a fine art. She added, "Take care out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be careful. I don't feel comfortable now that Besand is gone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He only left this morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz left the house muttering about superstitious old women who could not stand change.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a random roundabout route, occasionally pausing to watch the comet. It was spectacular. A great mane of glory. He wondered if his dream had been trying to tell him something. A shadow devouring the moon. Not solid enough, he decided.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nearing the edge of town, he heard voices. He softened his step. People were not usually out at this time of night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were inside an abandoned shack. A candle flickered inside. Pilgrims, he supposed. He found a peephole, but he could see nothing save a man's back. Something about those slumped shoulders… Besand? Of course not. Too wide. More like that one ape of Tokar's…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could not identify the voices, which were mostly whispers. One did sound a lot like Men fu's habitual whine. The words were distinct enough, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, we did everything we could to get him out of here. You take a man's job and home, he ought to realize he's not wanted. But he won't go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A second voice: "Then it's time for heroic measures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whiny voice: "That's going too far."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Short of disgust. "Yellow. I'll do it. Where is he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Holed up in the old stable. The loft. Fixed himself a pallet, like an old dog in a comer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A grunt as someone rose. Feet moving. Bomanz grabbed his belly, mouse-stepped away and hid in a shadow. A hulking figure crossed the road. Comet light glittered upon a naked blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz scuttled to a more distant shadow and stopped to think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What did it mean? Murder, surely. But who? Why? Who had moved into the abandoned stable? Pilgrims and transients used the empty places all the time… Who were those men?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Possibilities occurred. He banished them. They were too grim. When his nerves returned, he hurried to the dig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil's lantern was there, but he was nowhere in sight. "Stance?" No answer. "Stancil? Where are you?" Still no answer. Almost in panic, he shouted, "Stancil!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That you, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Taking a crap."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sighed, sat down. His son appeared a moment later, brushing sweat off his forehead. Why? It was a cool night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stance, did Besand change his mind? I saw him leave this morning. A while ago I heard men plotting to kill somebody. Sounded like they meant him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Kill? Who?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. One of them might have been Men fu. There were three or four of them. Did he come back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so. You didn't dream something, did you? What are you doing out in the middle of the night, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That nightmare again. I couldn't sleep. I didn't imagine it. Those men were going to kill somebody because he wouldn't leave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That doesn't make sense, Pop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't care…" Bomanz whirled. He heard the strange noise again. A figure staggered into the light. It took three steps and fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besand! It is Besand. What did I tell you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The former Monitor had a bloody wound across his chest. "I'm okay," he said. "I'll be okay. Just shock. It's not as bad as it looks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tried to kill me. Told you all hell would break loose. Told you they'd make a play. Beat them this round, though. Got their assassin instead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you left. I saw you leave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I changed my mind. Couldn't go. I took an oath. Bo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They took away my job but not my conscience. I've got to stop them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz met his son's gaze. Stancil shook his head. "Pop, look at his wrist."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz looked. "I don't see anything." "That's the point. His amulet is gone." "He turned it in when he left. Didn't you?" "No," Besand said. "Lost it in the fight. Couldn't find it in the dark." He made that funny sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop, he's bad hurt. I better go to the barracks." "Stance," Besand gasped. "Don't tell him. Get Corporal Husky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." Stancil hurried off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The light of the comet filled the night with ghosts. The Barrowland seemed to twist and crawl. Momentary shapes drifted amongst the brush. Bomanz shuddered and tried to convince himself that his imagination was acting up now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dawn was approaching. Besand was over his shock, sipping broth Jasmine had sent. Corporal Husky came to report the result of his investigation. "Couldn't find anything, sir. Not no body, not no amulet. Not even no sign of no fight. It's like it never happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I sure as hell didn't try to kill myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz became thoughtful. Had he not overheard the conspirators, he would have doubted Besand. The man was capable of staging an assault for sympathy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you, sir. I was just saying what I found."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They blew their best chance. We're warned now. Keep alert."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better not forget who's in charge now," Bomanz interjected. "Don't get anybody in trouble with our new leader."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That rockbrain. Do what you can, Husky. Don't crawl out on a limb."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir." The corporal departed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil said, "Pop, you ought to get back to the house. You're looking grey."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz rose. "You all right now?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besand replied, "I'll be fine. Don't worry about me. The sun is up. That kind don't try anything in broad daylight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Don't bet on it, Bomanz thought. Not if they're devotees of the Domination. They'll bring the darkness to high noon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out of earshot, Stancil said, "I was thinking last night, Pop. Before this got started. About our name problem. And suddenly it hit me. There's an old stone in Oar. A big one with runic carvings and pictographs. Been around forever. Nobody knows what it is or where it came from. Nobody really cares."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me show you what's carved on it." Stancil picked up a twig, brushed a dusty area clear of debris. He started drawing. "There's a crude star in a circle at the top. Then some lines of runes nobody can read. I can't remember those. Then some pictures." He sketched rapidly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's pretty rough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So is the original. But look. This one. Stick figure with a broken leg. Here. A worm? Here, a man superimposed over an animal. Here, a man with a lightning bolt. You see? The Limper. Nightcrawler. Shifter. Stormbringer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. And maybe you're reaching."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil kept drawing. "Okay. That's the way they are on the rock. The four I named. In the same order as on your chart. Look here. At your empty spots. They could be the Taken whose graves we haven't identified." He tapped what looked like a simple circle, a stick figure with its head cocked, and a beast head with a circle in its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The positions match," Bomanz admitted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're being intentionally thick, Pop. A circle is a zero, maybe. Maybe a sign for the one called the Faceless Man or Nameless man. And here the Hanged Man. And here Moondog or Moonbiter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see it. Stance. I'm just not sure I want to." He told Stance about having dreamed of a great wolf's head snapping at the moon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see? Your own mind is trying to tell you. Go check the evidence. See if it don't fit this way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know it by heart. It fits."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what's the matter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure I want to do it anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop… Pop, if you won't, I will. I mean it. I'm not going to let you throw away thirty-seven years. What's changed, anyway? You gave up a hell of a future to come out here. Can you just write that off?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm used to this life. I don't mind it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop… I've met people who knew you back when. They all say you could have been a great wizard. They wonder what happened to you. They know that you had some great secret plan and went off to chase it. They figure you're dead now, 'cause anybody with your talent would've been heard from. Right now I'm wondering if they're not right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sighed. Stancil would never understand. Not without getting old under the threat of the noose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean it, Pop. I'll do it myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you won't. You have neither the knowledge nor the skill. I'll do it. I guess it's fated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not so eager. This isn't a tea party. It'll be dangerous. I need rest and time to get into the right frame of mind. I have to assemble my equipment and prepare the stage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stancil, who is the expert? Who is going to do this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then shut your mouth and keep it shut. The quickest I could try is tomorrow night. Assuming I stay comfortable with those names."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil looked pained and impatient.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the hurry? What's your stake in it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just… I think Tokar is bringing Glory. I wanted everything out of the way when she got here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz raised a despairing eyebrow. "Let's go to the house. I'm exhausted." He glanced back at Besand, who was staring into the Barrowland. The man was stiff with defiance. "Keep him out of my hair."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He won't be getting around too good for a while."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Later Bomanz muttered, "I wonder what it was all about, anyway? Really Resurrectionists?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancii said, "The Resurrectionists are a myth Besand's bunch use to keep themselves employed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz recalled some university acquaintances. "Don't be too sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When they reached the house, Stance trudged upstairs to study the chart. Bomanz ate a small meal. Before lying down, he told Jasmine, "Keep an eye on Stance. He's acting funny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny? How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Just funny. Pushy about the Barrowland. Don't let him find my gear. He might try to open the path himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He wouldn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hope not. But watch him."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36398036" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36398038" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifteen:
THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Case heard Corbie was back at last. He ran to the old man's home. Corbie greeted him with a hug. "How you been, lad?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We thought you were gone for good." Corbie had been away eight months.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried to get back. There's damned near no roads anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. The Colonel asked the Taken to fly supplies in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard. The military government in Oar got off their butts when that hit. Sent a whole regiment to start a new road. It's about a third of the way built. I came up on part of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case donned his serious face. "Was it really your daughter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Corbie said. On departing he had announced that he was off to meet a woman who might be his daughter. He claimed to have given over his savings to a man who would find his children and bring them to Oar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sound disappointed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was. His researches had not worked out well. Too many records were missing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What sort of winter was it, Case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was bad down there, too. I worried for you all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had trouble with the tribes. That was the worst part. You can always stay inside and throw another log on. But you can't eat if thieves steal your stores."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought it might come to that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We watched your house. They broke in some of the empty places."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you." Corbie's eyes narrowed. His home had been violated? How thoroughly? A careful searcher might have found enough to hang him. He glanced out a window. "Looks like rain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It always looks like rain. When it don't look like snow. It got twelve feet deep last winter. People are worried. What's happened to the weather?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Old folks say it goes this way, after the Great Comet. The winters turn bad for a few years. Down in Oar it never got that cold. Plenty of snow, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wasn't that cold here. Just snowed so much you couldn't get out. I like to went crazy. The whole Barrowland looked like a frozen lake. You could hardly tell where the Great Barrow was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm? I have to unpack yet. If you don't mind? Let everyone know I'm back. I'm near broke. I'll need work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will do, Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie watched from a window as Case ambled back to the Guard compound, taking an elevated walkway built since his departure. The mud below explained it. That and Colonel Sweet's penchant for keeping his men occupied. Once Case vanished he went to the second floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing had been disturbed. Good. He peeped out a window, toward the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How it had changed in just a few years. A few more and you would not be able to find it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grunted, stared the harder. Then he retrieved the silken map from its hiding place, studied it, then the Barrowland again. After a time he fished sweat-stained papers from inside his shirt, where he had carried them since stealing them from the university in Oar. He spread them over the map.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Late that afternoon he rose, donned a cloak, gathered the cane he now carried, and went out. He limped through the water and mud and drizzle till he reached a point overlooking the Great Tragic River.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was in flood, as always. Its bed had continued to shift. After a time he cursed, smote an old oak with his cane, and turned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The day had gone grey with the hour. It would be dark before he got home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damned complications," he muttered. "I never counted on this. What the hell am I going to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Take the high risk. The one chance he wished most to avoid, though its possible necessity was his real reason for having wintered in Oar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For the first time in years he wondered if the game were worth the candle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever his course, it would be dark before he got home.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36398180" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36398183" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Sixteen:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">You get mad and walk out on Darling, you can miss a lot. Elmo, One-Eye, Goblin, Otto, those guys like to bait me. They were not about to clue me in. They got everybody else to go along. Even Tracker, who seemed to be taking a shine to me and chattered at me more than everybody else combined, would not drop a hint. So when the day came, I went topside in total ignorance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd packed the usual field gear. Our traditions are heavy infantry, though mostly we ride these days. All of us are too old to lug eighty pounds of gear. I dragged mine to the cavern that serves as a stable and smells like the grandfather of them all-and found that not one animal was saddled. Well, one. Darling's.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stable boy just grinned when I asked what was going on. "Go on up," he said. "Sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Rotten bastards. They play games with me? I'll get them. They damned well better start remembering who keeps the Annals around here." I bitched and moaned all the way into the pre-moonset shadows that lurked around the tunnel mouth. There I found the rest of the outfit, all already up, with light gear. Each man carried his weapons and a sack of dried food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What you doing, Croaker?" One-Eye asked with suppressed laughter. "Look like you're taking everything you own. You a turtle? Carry your house on your back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Elmo: "We ain't moving, boy. Just going on a raid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a bunch of sadists, you know that?" I stepped into the wan light. The moon was half an hour from setting. Far, Taken drifted on the night. Those son-of-a-bitches were determined to keep a close watch. Nearer, a whole; horde of menhirs had gathered. They looked like a graveyard out on the desert, there were so many of them. There were a lot of walking trees, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More, though there was no breeze, I could hear Old Father Tree tinkling. No doubt that meant something. A menhir might have explained. But the stones remain close-mouthed about themselves and their fellow species. Especially about Father Tree. Most of them won't admit he exists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better lighten your load, Croaker," the Lieutenant said. He would not explain either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You going too?" I asked, surprised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep. Move it. We don't have long. Weapons and field medical kit should do it. Scoot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I met Darling going down. She smiled. Grouchy as I was, I smiled back. I can't stay mad at her. I have known her since she was so high. Since Raven rescued her from the Limper's thugs long ago, in the Forsberg campaigns. I cannot see the woman that is without recalling the child that was. I get all sentimental and soft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They tell me I suffer from a crippling romantic streak. Looking back, I'm almost inclined to agree. AH those silly stories I wrote about the Lady…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon was on the rim of the world when I returned topside. A whisper of excitement coursed among the men. Darling was up there with them, astride her flashy white mare, moving around, gesturing at those who understood sign. Above, the spots of luminescence that are characteristic of windwhale tentacles drifted lower than I'd ever heard tell of. Except in horror stories about starved whales dropping down to drag their tentacles on the ground, ripping up every plant and animal in their path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey!" I said. "We'd better look out. That sucker is coming down." A vast shadow blotted out thousands of stars. And it was expanding. Manias swarmed around it. Big ones, little ones, in-between ones-more than I'd ever seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My expostulation drew laughter. I turned surly again. I moved among the men, harassing them about the medical kits I expect them to carry on a mission. I was in a better mood when I finished. They all had them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale kept coming down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon disappeared. The instant it did the menhirs began to move. Moments later they began to glow on the side toward us. The side away from the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling rode along the pathway they marked. When she passed a menhir its light went out. I suspect it moved to the far end of the line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had no time to check. Elmo and the Lieutenant herded us into a line of our own. Above, the night filled with the squeaks and flutter of manias squabbling for flying room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale settled astride the creek.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My god, it was big. Big! I had no idea… It stretched from the coral over the creek another two hundred yards. Four, five hundred yards long, all total. And seventy to a hundred wide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A menhir spoke. I could not make out its words. But the men began moving forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a minute my worst suspicions were confirmed. They were climbing the creature's flank, onto its back, where mantas normally nested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It smelled. Smelled unlike anything I've ever smelled before, and strongly. Richly, you might say. Not necessarily a bad smell, but overpowering. And it felt strange to the touch. Not hairy, scaly, horny. Not exactly slimy, but still spongy and slick, like a full, exposed intestine. There were plenty of handholds. Our fingers and boots did not bother it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhir mumbled and grumbled like an old first sergeant, both issuing orders and relaying complaints from the windwhale. I got the impression the windwhale was a naturally grouchy sort. He did not like this any more than did I. Can't say I blame him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Up top there were more menhirs, each balanced precariously. As I arrived, one menhir told me to go to another of its kind. That one told me to sit about twenty feet away. The last men climbed aboard only moments later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I began to feel odd. At first blush I thought that was because the whale was lifting off. When I flew with the Lady or Whisper or Soulcatcher, my stomach was in continual rebellion. But this was a different malaise. It took a while to understand it as an absence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling's null was fading. It had been with me so long it had become part of my life…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was happening?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were going up. I felt the breeze shift. The stars turned ponderously. Then, suddenly, the whole north lighted up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mantas were attacking the Taken. A whole mess of them. The stroke was a complete surprise, for all the Taken must have sensed their presence. But the mantas were not doing that sort of thing…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, hell, I thought. They're pushing them our way…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grinned. Not our way at all. Toward Darling and her null, in a place unexpected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the thought occurred I saw the flash of vain sorceries, saw a carpet stagger, flutter earthward. A score of mantas swarmed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe Darling was not as dumb as I thought. Maybe these Taken could be taken out. A profit, for sure, if nothing else went right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what were we doing? The lightning illuminated my companions. Nearest me were Tracker and Toadkiller Dog. Tracker seemed bored. But Toadkiller Dog was as alert as I had seen him. He was sitting up, watching the display. The only time I ever saw him not on his belly was at mealtime.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His tongue was out. He panted. Had he been human, I would have said he was grinning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The second Taken tried to impress the mantas with his power. He was too immensely outnumbered. And below, Darling was moving. That second Taken suddenly entered her null. Down he went. The manta swarm pursued.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Both would survive landing. But then they would be afoot at the heart of the Plain, which tonight had taken a stand. Their chances of walking out looked grim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale was up a couple thousand feet now, moving northeast, gaining speed. How far to the edge of the Plain nearest Rust? Two hundred miles? Fine. We might make it before dawn. But what about the last thirty miles, beyond the Plain?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker started singing. His voice was soft at first. His song was old. Soldiers of the north countries had sung it for generations. It was a dirge, a song-before-death sung in memory of those about to die. I heard it in Forsberg, sung on both sides. Another voice took it up. Then another and another. Perhaps fifteen men knew it, of forty or so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale glided northward. Far, far below, the Plain of Fear slid away, utterly invisible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I began to sweat, though the upper air was cold.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_18" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36398412" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36398414" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Seventeen:
RUST <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">My first false assumption was that the Limper would be home when we called. Darling's maneuver against the Taken obviated that. I should have recalled that the Taken touch one another over long distances, mind to mind. Limper and Benefice passed nearby as we moved north.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Down!" Goblin squealed when we were fifty miles short of the edge of the Plain. "Taken. Nobody move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As always, old Croaker considered himself the exception to the rule. For the Annals, of course. I crept nearer the side of our monster mount, peered out into the night. Way below, two shadows raced down our backtrack. Once they were past I took a cussing from Elmo, the Lieutenant, Goblin, One-Eye, and anybody else who wanted a piece. I settled back beside Tracker. He just grinned and shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He came ever more to life as action approached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My second false assumption was that the windwhale would drop us at the edge of the Plain. I was up again as that drew near, ignoring naughty remarks directed my way. But the windwhale did not go down. It did not descend for many minutes yet. I began to babble sillinesses when I resumed my place by Tracker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had his till-now mysterious case open. It contained a small arsenal. He checked his weapons. One long-bladed knife did not please him. He began applying a whetstone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How many times had Raven done the same in the brief year he spent with the Company?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whale's descent was sudden. Elmo and the Lieutenant passed among us, telling us to get off in a hurry. Elmo told me, "Stick close to me, Croaker. You too, Tracker. One-Eye. You feel anything down there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing. Goblin has his sleeping spell ready. Their sentries will be snoring when we touch down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unless they aren't and raise the alarm," I muttered. Damn, but didn't I have it for the dark side?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No problems. We grounded. Men poured over the side. They spread out as if this part had been rehearsed. Parts may have been while I was sulking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could do nothing but what Elmo told me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The early going reminded me of another barracks raid, long ago, south of the Sea of Torments, ere we enlisted with the Lady. We had slaughtered the Urban Cohorts of the Jewel City Beryl, our wizards keeping them snoozing while we murdered them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not work I enjoy, I'll tell you. Most of them were just kids who enlisted for want of something better to do. But they were the enemy, and we were making a grand gesture. A grander gesture than I had supposed Darling could order, or had in mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sky began to lighten. Not one man of an entire regiment, save perhaps a few AWOL for the night, survived. Out on the main parade of the compound, which stood well outside Rust proper, Elmo and the Lieutenant began to yell. Hurry, hurry. More to do. This squad to wreck the stellae of the Taken. That squad to plunder regimental headquarters. Another to set out stuff to fire the barracks buildings. Still another to search the Limper's quarters for documents. Hurry, hurry. Got to get gone before the Taken return. Darling cannot distract them forever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somebody screwed up. Naturally. It always happens. Somebody fired one barracks early. Smoke rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Over in Rust, we soon learned, there was another regiment. In minutes a squadron of horse were galloping our way. And again, someone had screwed up. The gates were not secured. Almost without warning the horsemen were among us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men shouted. Weapons clanged. Arrows flew. Horses shrieked. The Lady's men got out, leaving half their number behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now Elmo and the Lieutenant were in a hurry for sure. Those boys were going for help.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While we were scattering the imperials the windwhale lifted off. Maybe half a dozen men managed to scramble aboard. It rose just enough to clear the rooftops, then headed south. There was not yet enough light to betray it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You can imagine the cussing and shouting. Even Toadkiller Dog found the energy to snarl. I slumped in defeat, dropped my butt onto a hitching rail, sat there shaking my head. A few men sped arrows after the monster. It did not notice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker leaned on the rail beside me. I grumped, "You wouldn't think something that big would be chicken." I mean, a windwhale can destroy a city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do not impart motives to a creature you do not understand. You have to see its reasoning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not reasoning. I don't know the right word." He reminded me of a four-year-old struggling with a difficult concept. "It's outside the lands it knows. Beyond bounds its enemies believe it can breech. It runs for fear it will be seen and a secret betrayed. It has never worked with men. How can it remember them in a desperate moment?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was right, probably. But at the moment I was more interested in him than in his theory. That I would have stumbled across after I settled down. He made it seem one huge and incredibly difficult piece of thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered about his mind. Was he just slightly more than a half-wit? Was his Ravenlike act not a product of personality but of simpleness?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant stood on the parade ground, hands on hips, watching the windwhale leave us in the enemy's palm. After a minute he shouted, "Officers! Assemble!" After we gathered, he said, "We're in for it. As I see it, we have one hope. That that big bastard gets in touch with the menhirs when it gets back. And that they decide we're worth saving. So what we do is hold out till nightfall. And hope."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye made an obscene noise. "I think we better run for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? And let the imperials track us? We're how far from home? You think we can make it with the Limper and his pals after us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll be after us here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. And maybe they'll keep them busy out there. At least, if we're here, they'll know where to find us. Elmo, survey the walls. See if we can hold them. Goblin, Silent, get those fires put out. The rest of you, clean out the Taken's documents. Elmo! Post sentries. One-Eye. Your job is to figure out how we can get help from Rust. Croaker, give him a hand. You know who we have where. Come on. Move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A good man, the Lieutenant. He kept his cool when, like all of us, what he wanted to do was run in circles and scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We didn't have a chance, really. This was the end of it. Even if we held off the troops from the city, there was Benefice and the Limper. Goblin, One-Eye, and Silent would be of no value against them. The Lieutenant knew that, too. He did not have them put their heads together to plot a surprise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We could not get the fire controlled. The barracks had to burn itself out. While I tended two wounded men the others made the compound as defensible as thirty men could. Finished doctoring, I went poking through the Limper's documents. I found nothing immediately interesting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About a hundred men coming out of Rust!" someone shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant snapped, "Make this place look abandoned!" Men scurried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I popped up to the wall top for a quick peek at the scrub woods north of us. One-Eye was out there, creeping toward the city, hoping to get to Corder's friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even after having been triply decimated in the great sieges and occupied for years, Rust remained adamant in its hatred for the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The imperials were careful. They sent scouts around the wall. They sent a few men up close to draw fire. Only after an hour of cautious maneuver did they rush the half-open gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant let fifteen get inside before tripping the portcullus. Those went down in a storm of arrows. Then we hustled to the wall and let fly at those milling around outside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another dozen fell. The others retreated beyond bowshot. There they milled and grumbled and tried to decide what next.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker remained nearby all that time. I saw him loose only four arrows. Each ripped right through an imperial. He might not be bright, but he could use a bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If they're smart," I told him, "they'll set a picket line and wait for the Limper. No point them getting hurt when he can handle us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker grunted. Toadkiller Dog opened one eye, grumbled deep in his throat. Down the way, Goblin and Silent crouched with heads together, alternately popping up to look outside. I figured they were plotting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker stood up, grunted again. I looked myself. More imperials were leaving Rust. Hundreds more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing happened for an hour, except that more and more troops appeared. They surrounded us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and Silent unleashed their wizardry. It took the form of a cloud of moths. I could not discern their provenance. They just gathered around the two. When they were maybe a thousand strong, they fluttered away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a while there was a lot of screaming outside. When that died I ambled over and asked a grim-faced Goblin, "What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Somebody with a touch of talent," he squeaked. "Almost as good as us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We in trouble?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In trouble? Us? We got it whipped, Croaker. We got them on the run. They just don't know it yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I meant…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He won't hit back. He don't want to give himself away. There's two of us and only one of him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The imperials began assembling artillery pieces. The compound had not been built to withstand bombardment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time passed. The sun climbed. We watched the sky. When would doom come riding in on a carpet?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Certain the imperials would not immediately attack, the Lieutenant had some of us gather our plunder on the parade ground, ready to board a windwhale. Whether he believed it or not, he insisted we would be evacuated after sunset. He would not entertain the possibility that the Taken would arrive first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did keep morale up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first missile fell an hour after noon. A ball of fire smacked down a dozen feet short of the wall. Another arced after it. It fell on the parade ground, sputtered, fizzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Going to burn us out," I muttered to Tracker. A third missile came. It burned cheerfully, but also upon the parade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker and Toadkiller Dog stood and stared over the ramparts, the dog stretching on his hind legs. After a while Tracker sat down, opened his wooden case, withdrew a half dozen overly long arrows. He stood again, stared toward the artillery engines, arrow across his bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a long flight, but reachable even with my weapon. But I could have plinked all day and not come close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker fell into a state of concentration almost trancelike. He lifted and bent his bow, pulled it to the head of his arrow, let fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cry rolled up the slope. The artillerymen gathered around one of their number.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker loosed shafts smoothly and quickly. I'd guess he put four in the air at one time. Each found a target. Then he sat down. "That's that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Say what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No more good arrows."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe that's enough to discourage them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was. For a while. About long enough for them to move back and put up some protective mantlets. Then the missiles came again. One found a building. The heat was vicious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant prowled the wall restlessly. I joined his silent prayer that the imperials would not get worked up and rush us. There would be no way to stop them.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_19" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36398741" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36398744" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eighteen:
SIEGE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was settling. We were alive still. No Taken carpet had come swooping out of the Plain. We had begun to believe there was a chance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something hammered on the gate, a great loud pounding, like the hammer of doom. One-Eye roared up, "Let me in, damnit!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somebody scooted down and opened up. He came to the ramparts. "Well?" Goblin demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Too many imperials. Not enough Rebels. They wanted to argue it out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you get through?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Walked," he snapped. Then, less belligerently, "Trade secret, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sorcery. Of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant paused to hear One-Eye's report, resumed his ceaseless prowl. I watched the imperials. There were indications they were out of patience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye evidently supported my suspicion with direct evidence. He, Goblin, and Silent started plotting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I am not certain what they did. Not moths, but the results were similar. A big outcry, soon stifled. But now we had three spook doctors to work the mine. The extra man sought the imperial who negated the spell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man ran toward the city, aflame. Goblin and One-Eye howled victoriously. Not two minutes later an artillery engine burst into flames. Then another. I watched our wizards closely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent remained all business. But Goblin and One-Eye were getting carried away, having a good time. I feared they would go too far, that the imperials would attack in hope of overwhelming them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They came, but later than I expected. They waited till nightfall. And then they were more cautious than the situation demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Meantime, smoke began to waft up over the ruined walls of Rust. One-Eye's mission had succeeded. Somebody was doing something. Some of the imperials pulled out and hurried back to deal with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the stars came out I told Tracker, "Guess we'll soon know if the Lieutenant was right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just looked puzzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Imperial horns sounded signals. Companies moved toward the wall. He and I stood to our bows, seeking targets that were difficult in the darkness, though there was a bit of moon. Out of the nowhere, he asked, "What's she like, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Who?" I let fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Lady. They say you met her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. A long time ago."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well? What's she like?" He loosed. A cry answered the twang of his bowstring. He seemed perfectly calm. Seemed unaware that he might die in minutes. That disturbed me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About what you'd expect," I replied. What could I say? My contacts with her were but sketchy memories now. "Hard and beautiful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The answer did not satisfy him. It never satisfies anyone. But it is the best I can give.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did she look like?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Tracker. I was scared shitless. And she did things to my mind. I saw a young, beautiful woman. But you can see those anywhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His bow twanged, was answered by another cry. He shrugged. "I sort of wondered." He began loosing more quickly. The imperials were close now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I swear, he never missed. I loosed when I saw something, but… He has eyes like an owl. All I saw was shadows among shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin, One-Eye, and Silent did what they could. Their witcheries painted the field with short-lived little flares and screams. What they could do was not enough. Ladders slapped against the wall. Most went right back over again. But men came up a few. Then there were a dozen more. I scattered arrows into the darkness, almost randomly, as quickly as I could, then drew my sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rest of the men did likewise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant shouted, "It's here!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I flicked a glance at the stars. Yes. A vast shape had appeared overhead. It was settling. The Lieutenant had guessed right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now all we had to do was get aboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some of the young men broke for the parade ground. The Lieutenant's curses did not slow them. Neither did Elmo's snarls and threats. The Lieutenant yelled for the rest of us to follow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye loosed something nasty. For a moment I thought it was some cruel conjured demon. It looked vile enough. And it did stall the imperials. But like much of their magic, it was illusion, not substance. The enemy soon caught on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But we had us a head start. The men reached the parade before the imperials recollected themselves. They roared, certain they had us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I reached the windwhale as it touched down. Silent snagged my arm as I started to scramble aboard. He indicated the documents we had scrounged. "Oh, damn! There isn't time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men scrambled past me during my moment of indecision. Then I tossed sword and bow topside and began pitching bundles up to Silent, who got somebody to relay them to the top.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A gang of imperials charged toward us. I started for an abandoned sword, saw I could not reach it in time, thought: Oh, shit-not now; not here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker stepped between me and them. His blade was like something out of legend. He killed three men in the blink of an eye, wounded another two before the imperials decided they faced someone preternatural. He took the offensive, though still outnumbered. Never have I seen a sword used with such skill, style, economy, and grace. It was a part of him, an extension of his will. Nothing could stand before it. For that moment I could believe old tales about magic swords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent kicked me in the back, signed at me, "Quit gawking and get moving." I tossed up the last two bundles, began scaling the monster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men Tracker faced received reinforcements. He retreated. From up top someone sped arrows down. But I did not think he would make it. I kicked at a man who had gotten behind him. Another took his place, leapt at me…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog came out of nowhere. He locked his jaws in my assailant's throat. The man gurgled, responded as he might have if bitten by a krite. He lasted only a second.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog dropped away. I climbed a few feet, still 'trying to guard Tracker's back. He reached up. I caught his hand and heaved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were awful shouts and screams among the imperials. It was too dark to see why. I figured One-Eye, Goblin, and Silent were earning their keep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker flung up past me, took a firm hold, helped me. I climbed a few feet, looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground was fifteen feet below. The windwhale was going up fast. The imperials stood around gawking. I fought my way to the top.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down again as someone dragged me to safety. The fires in Rust were beneath us. Several hundred feet below. We were going up fast. No wonder my hands were cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chills were not the reason I lay down shaking, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After it passed, I asked, "Anybody hurt? Where's my medical kit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where, I wondered, were the Taken? How had we gotten through the day without a visit from our beloved enemy the Limper?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Going home I noticed more than I did coming north. I felt the life beneath me, the grumble and hum within the monster. I noted pre-adolescent mantas peeping from nesting places among the appendages which forested parts of the whale's back. And I saw the Plain in a different light, with the moon up to illuminate it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was another world, spare and crystalline at times, luminescent at others, sparkling and glowing in spots. What looked like lava pools lay to the west. Beyond, the flash and curl of a change storm illuminated the horizon. I suppose we were crossing its backtrail. Later, deeper into the Plain, the desert became more mundane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our steed was not the cowardly windwhale. This one was smaller and smelled less strongly. It was more spritely, too, and less tentative in its movements.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">About twenty miles from home Goblin squealed, "Taken!" and everyone went flat. The whale climbed. I peeked over its side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Taken for sure, but not interested in us. There was a lot of flash and roar way down there. Patches of desert were aflame. I saw the long, creepy shadows of walking trees on the move, the shapes of manias rushing across the light. The Taken themselves were afoot, except one desperado aloft battling the mantas. The one aloft was not the Limper. I would have recognized his tattered brown even at that distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper, surely. Trying to escort the others out of enemy territory. Great. They would be busy for a few days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale began to descend. (For the sake of these Annals, I wish part of a passage had taken place by day so I could record more details.) It touched down shortly. From the ground a menhir called, "Get down. Hurry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Getting off was more trouble than boarding. The wounded now realized they were hurt. Everyone was tired and stiff. And Tracker would not move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was catatonic. Nothing reached him. He just sat there, staring at infinity. "What the hell?" Elmo demanded. "What's wrong with him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Maybe he got hit." I was baffled. And the more so once we got him into some light so I could examine him. There was nothing physically wrong. He had come through without a bruise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling came outside. She signed, "You were right, Croaker. I am sorry. I thought it would be a stroke so bold it would fire the whole world." Of Elmo, she asked, "How many lost?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four men. I don't know if they were killed or just got left." He seemed ashamed. The Black Company does not leave its brethren behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Toadkiller Dog," Tracker said. "We left Toadkiller Dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye disparaged the mutt. Tracker rose angrily. He had salvaged nothing but his sword. His magnificent case and arsenal remained in Rust with his mongrel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here now," the Lieutenant snapped. "None of that. One-Eye, go below. Croaker, keep an eye on this man. Ask Darling if the guys who ran out yesterday made it back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo and I both did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her answer was not reassuring. The great cowardly windwhale dumped them a hundred miles north, according to the menhirs. At least it descended before forcing them off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were walking home. The menhirs promised to shield them from the natural wickedness of the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We all went down into the Hole bickering. There is nothing like failure to set the sparks flying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Failure, of course, can be relative. The damage we did was considerable. The repercussions would echo a long time. The Taken had to be badly rattled. Our capture of so many documents would force a restructuring of their plan of campaign. But still the mission was unsatisfactory. Now the Taken knew wind whales were capable of ranging beyond traditional bounds. Now the Taken knew we had resources beyond those they had suspected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When you gamble, you do not show all your cards till after the final bet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I scrounged around and found the captured papers, took them to my quarters. I did not feel like participating in the conference room post-mortem. It was sure to get nasty-even with everyone agreeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shed my weapons, lighted a lamp, picked one of the document bundles, turned to my worktable. And there lay another of those packets from the west.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_20" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36399082" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36399084" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Nineteen:
BOMANZ'S TALE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz walked his dreams with a woman who could not make him understand her words. The green path of promise led past moon-eating dogs, hanged men, and sentries without faces. Through breaks in the foliage he glimpsed a sky-spanning comet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did not sleep well. The dream invariably awaited him when he dozed off. He did not know why he could not slide down into deep sleep. As nightmares went, this was mild.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of the symbolism was obvious, and most of it he refused to heed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Night had fallen when Jasmine brought tea and asked, "Are you going to lie here all week?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I might."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are you going to sleep tonight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I probably won't till late. I'll work in the shbp. What's Stance been up to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He slept a while, went and brought a load from the site, pottered around the shop, ate, and went back out when somebody came to say Men fu was out there again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about Besand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all over town. The new Monitor is furious because he didn't leave. Says he won't do anything about it. The Guards are calling him a horse's ass. They won't take his orders. He's getting madder and madder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe he'll learn something. Thanks for the tea. Is there anything to eat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Leftover chicken. Get it yourself. I'm going to bed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Grumbling, Bomanz ate cold, greasy chicken wings, washing them down with tepid beer. He thought about his dream. His ulcer gave him a nip. His head started aching. "Here we go," he muttered, and dragged himself upstairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spent several hours reviewing the rituals he would use to leave his body and slide through the hazards of the Barrowland… Would the dragon be a problem? Indications were, it was meant for physical intruders. Finally: "It'll work. As long as that sixth barrow is Moondog's." He sighed, leaned back, closed his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dream began. And midway through he found himself staring into green ophidian eyes. Wise, cruel, mocking eyes. He started awake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop? You up there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Come on up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil pushed into the room. He looked awful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Barrowland… The ghosts are walking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They do that when the comet gets close. I didn't expect them so soon. Must be going to get frisky this time. That's no call to get shook up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wasn't that. I expected that. That I could handle. No. It's Besand and Men fu."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Men fu tried to get into the Barrowland with Besand's amulet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was right! That little… Go on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He was at the dig. He had the amulet. He was scared to death. He saw me coming and headed downhill. When he got near where the moat used to be, Besand came out of nowhere, screaming and waving a sword. Men fu started running. Besand kept after him. It's pretty bright out there, but I lost track when they got up around the Howler's barrow. Besand must have caught him. I heard them yelling and rolling around in the brush. Then they started screaming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil stopped. Bomanz waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know how to describe it, Pop. I never heard sounds like that. AH the ghosts piled onto the Howler's barrow. It went on a long time. Then the screaming started getting closer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil, Bomanz concluded, had been shaken deeply. Shaken the way a man is when his basic beliefs are uprooted. Odd. "Go on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was Besand. He had the amulet, but it didn't help. He didn't make it across the moat. He dropped it. The ghosts jumped him. He's dead, Pop. The Guards were all out there… They couldn't do anything but look. The Monitor wouldn't give them amulets so they could get him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz folded his hands on the tabletop, stared at them. "So now we have two men dead. Three counting the one last night. How many will we have tomorrow night? Will I have to face a platoon of new ghosts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to do it tomorrow night?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. With Besand gone there's no reason to delay it. Is there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop… Maybe you shouldn't. Maybe the knowledge out there should stay buried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's this? My son parroting my misgivings?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop, let's don't fight. Maybe I pushed too hard. Maybe I was wrong. You know more about the Barrowland than me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz stared at his son. More boldly than he felt, he said, "I'm going in. It's time to put doubts aside and get on with it. There's the list. See if there's an area of inquiry that I've forgotten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pop…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't argue with me, boy." It had taken him all evening to shed the ingrained Bomanz persona and surface the wizard so long and artfully hidden. But he was out now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz went to a comer where a few seemingly innocuous objects were piled. He stood taller than usual. He moved more precisely, more quickly. He began piling things on the table. "When you go back to Oar, you can tell my old classmates what became of me." He smiled thinly. He could recall a few who would shudder even now, knowing he had studied at the Lady's knee. He'd never forgotten, never forgiven. And they knew him that well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil's pallor had disappeared. Now he was uncertain. This side of the father had not been seen since before the son's birth. It was outside his experience. "Do you want to go out there, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You brought back the essential details. Besand is dead. Men fu is dead. The Guards aren't going to get excited."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought he was your friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besand? Besand had no friends. He had a mission… What're you looking at?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A man with a mission?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could be. Something kept me here. Take this stuff downstairs. We'll do it in the shop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where do you want it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't matter. Besand was the only one who could have separated it from the junk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil went out. Later, Bomanz finished a series of mental exercises and wondered what had become of the boy. Stance hadn't returned. He shrugged, went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. He was ready. It was going to be simple.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The town was in an uproar. A Guard had tried to assassinate the new Monitor. The Monitor was so bewildered and frightened he had locked himself in his quarters. Crazy rumors abounded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz walked through it with such calm dignity that he startled people who had known him for years. He went to the edge of the Barrowland, considered his long-time antagonist. Besand lay where he had fallen. The flies were thick. Bomanz threw a handful of dirt. The insects scattered. He nodded thoughtfully. Besand's amulet had disappeared again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz located Corporal Husky. "If you can't do anything to get Besand out, then toss dirt in on him. There's a mountain around my pit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir," Husky said, and only later seemed startled by his easy acquiescence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz walked the perimeter of the Barrowland. The sun shone a little oddly through the comet's tail. Colors were a trifle strange. But there were no ghosts aprowl now. He saw no reason not to make his communication attempt. He returned to the village.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wagons stood before the shop. Teamsters were busy loading them. Jasmine shrilled inside, cursing someone who had taken something he shouldn't. "Damn you, Tokar," Bomanz muttered. "Why today? You could have waited till it was over." He felt a fleeting concern. He could not rely on Stance if the boy were distracted. He shoved into the shop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's grand!" Tokar said of the horse. "Absolutely magnificent. You're a genius, Bo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a pain in the butt. What's going on here? Who the hell are all these people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My drivers. My brother Clete. My sister Glory. Stance's Glory. And our baby sister Snoopy. We called her that because she was always spying on us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pleased to meet you all. Where's Stance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine said, "I sent him to get something for supper. With this crowd I'll have to start cooking early."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz sighed. Just what he needed, this night of nights. A house full of guests. "You. Put that back where you got it. You. Snoopy? Keep your hands off of stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar asked, "What's with you, Bo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz raised one eyebrow, met the man's gaze, did not answer. "Where's the driver with the big shoulders?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not with me anymore." Tokar frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thought not. I'll be upstairs if something critical comes up." He stamped through the shop, went up, settled in his chair, willed himself to sleep. His dreams were subtle. It seemed he could hear at last, but could not recall what he heard…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil entered the upstairs room. Bomanz asked, "What are we going to do? That crowd is gumming up the works."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long do you need, Pop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This could go all night every night for weeks if it works out." He was pleased. Stancil had recovered his courage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't hardly run them off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And can't go anywhere else, either." The Guards were in a hard, bitter mood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How noisy will you be, Pop? Could we do it here, on the quiet?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guess we'll have to try. Going to be crowded. Get the stuff from the shop. I'll make room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz's shoulders slumped when Stancil left. He was getting nervous. Not about the thing he would challenge, but about his own foresight. He kept thinking he had forgotten something. But he had reviewed four decades of notes without detecting a flaw in his chosen approach. Any reasonably educated apprentice should be able to follow his formulation. He spat into a corner. "Antiquarian's cowardice," he muttered. "Old-fashioned fear of the unknown."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil returned. "Mom's got them into a game of Throws."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wondered what Snoopy was yelling about. Got everything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay. Go down and kibbitz. I'll be there after I set up. We'll do it after they're in bed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stance? Are you ready?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm okay, Pop. I just had the jitters last night. It's not every day I see a man killed by ghosts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better get a feel for that kind of thing. It happens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil looked blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're sneaking studies on Black Campus, aren't you?" Black Campus was that hidden side of the university on which wizards learned their trade. Officially, it did not exist. Legally, it was prohibited. But it was there. Bomanz was a laureate graduate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil gave one sharp nod and left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought so," Bomanz whispered, and wondered: How black are you, son?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pottered around till he had triple-checked everything, till he realized that caution had become an excuse for not socializing. "You're something," he mumbled to himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One last look. Chart laid out. Candles. Bowl of quicksilver. Silver dagger. Herbs. Censers… He still had that feeling. "What the hell could I have missed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Throws was essentially four-player checkers. The board was four times the usual size. Players played from each side. An element of chance was added by throwing a die before each move. If a player's throw came up six, he could move any combination of pieces six moves. Checkers rules generally applied, except that a jump could be declined.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Snoopy appealed to Bomanz the moment he appeared. "They're ganging up on me!" She was playing opposite Jasmine. Glory and Tokar were on her flanks. Bomanz watched a few moves. Tokar and the older sister were in cahoots. Conventional elimination tactics.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On impulse Bomanz controlled the fall of the die when it came to Snoopy. She threw a six, squealed, sent men charging all over. Bomanz wondered if he had been that rich in adolescent enthusiasm and optimism. He eyed the girl. How old? Fourteen?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made Tokar throw a one, let Jasmine and Glory have what fate decreed, then gave Snoopy another six and Tokar another one. After a third time around Tokar grumbled, "This is getting ridiculous." The balance of the game had shifted. Glory was about to abandon him and side with her sister against Jasmine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine gave Bomanz the fish-eye when Snoopy threw yet another six. He winked, let Tokar throw free. A two. Tokar grumbled, "I'm on the comeback trail now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz wandered into the kitchen, poured himself a mug of beer. He returned to find Snoopy on the edge of disaster again. Her play was so frenetic she had to throw fours or better to survive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar, on the other hand, played a tediously conservative game, advancing in echelon, trying to occupy his flankers' king rows. A man much like himself, Bomanz reflected. First he plays to make sure he doesn't lose; then he worries about the win.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched Tokar roll a six and send a piece on an extravagant tour in which he took three men from his nominal ally, Glory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Treacherous, too, Bomanz thought. That's worth keeping in mind. He asked Stancil, "Where's Clete?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar said, "He decided to stay with the teamsters. Thought we were crowding you too much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine won that game, and Tokar the next, whereupon the antique merchant said, "That's all for me. Take my seat, Bo. See you all in the morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Glory said. "I'm done, too. Can we go for a walk, Stance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil glanced at his father. Bomanz nodded. "Don't go far. The Guards are in a bad mood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We won't," Stance said. His father smiled at his eager departure. It had been that way for him and Jasmine, long ago.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine observed, "A lovely girl. Stance is lucky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you," Tokar said. "We think she's lucky, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Snoopy made a sour face. Bomanz allowed himself a wry smile. Somebody had a crush on Stancil. "Three-handed game?" he suggested. "Take turns playing the dummy till somebody is out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let chance have its way with the players' throws but turned five and sixes for the dummy. Snoopy went out and took the dummy. Jasmine seemed amused. Snoopy squealed delightedly when she won. "Glory, I won!" she enthused when her sister and Stancil returned. "I beat them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil looked at the board, at his father. "Pop…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I fought all the way. She got the lucky throws."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil smiled a disbelieving smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Glory said, "That's enough, Snoopy. Bedtime. This isn't the city. People go to bed early here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aw…" The girl complained but went. Bomanz sighed. Being sociable was a strain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His heartbeat quickened as he anticipated the night's work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil completed a third reading of his written instructions. "Got it?" Bomanz asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Timing isn't important-as long as you're late, not early. If we were going to conjure some damnfool demon, you'd study your lines for a week."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lines?" Stancil would do nothing but tend candles and observe. He was there to help if his father got into trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had spent the past two hours neutralizing spells along the path he intended to follow. The Moondog name had been a gold strike.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it open?" Stancil asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wide. It almost pulls you. I'll let you go yourself later in the week."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz took a deep breath, exhaled. He surveyed the room. He still had that nagging feeling of having forgotten something. He hadn't a hint what it might be. "Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He settled into the chair, closed his eyes. "Dumni," he murmured. "Um muji dumni. Haikon. Dumni. Um muji dumni."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil pinched herbs into a diminutive charcoal brazier. Pungent smoke filled the room. Bomanz relaxed, let the lethargy steal over him. He achieved a quick separation, drifted up, hovered beneath the rafters, watched Stancil. The boy showed promise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bo checked his ties with his body. Good. Excellent! He could hear with both his spiritual and physical ears. He tested the duality further as he drifted downstairs. Each sound Stance made came through clearly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused in the shop, stared at Glory and Snoopy. He envied them their youth and innocence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Outside, the comet's glow filled the night. Bomanz felt its power showering the earth. How much more spectacular would it become by the time the world entered its mane?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, she was there, beckoning urgently. He reexam-ined his ties to his flesh. Yes. Still in trance. Not dreaming. He felt vaguely ill at ease.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She led him to the Barrowland, following the path he had opened. He reeled under the awesome power buried there, away from the might radiating from the menhirs and fetishes. Seen from his spiritual viewpoint, they took the form of cruel, hideous monsters leashed on short chains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ghosts stalked the Barrowland. They howled beside Bomanz, trying to breach his spells. The power of the comet and the might of the warding spells joined in a thunder which permeated Bomanz's being. How mighty were the ancients, he thought, that all this should remain after so long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They approached the dead soldiers represented by pawns on Bomanz's chart. He thought he heard footsteps behind him… He looked back, saw nothing, realized he was hearing Stancil back at the house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A knight's ghost challenged him. Its hatred was as timeless and relentless as the pounding surf along a cold, bleak shore. He sidled around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Great green eyes stared into his own. Ancient, wise, merciless eyes, arrogant, mocking, and contemptuous. The dragon exposed its teeth in a sneer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is it, Bomanz thought. What I overlooked… But no. The dragon could not touch him. He sensed its irritation, its conviction that he would make a tasty morsel in the flesh. He hurried after the woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No doubt about it. She was the Lady. She had been trying to reach him, too. Best be wary. She wanted more than a grateful chela.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They entered the crypt. It was massive, spacious, filled with all the clutter that had been the Dominator's in life. Clearly, that life had not been spartan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pursued the woman around a furniture pile-and found her vanished. "Where?…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He saw them. Side by side, on separate stone slabs. Shackled. Enveloped by crackling, humming forces. Neither breathed, yet neither betrayed the grey of death. They seemed suspended, marking time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Legend exaggerated only slightly. The Lady's impact, even in this state, was immense. "Bo, you have a grown son." Part of him wanted to stand on its hind legs and howl like an adolescent in rut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard steps again. Damn that Stancil. Couldn't he stand still? He was making racket enough for three people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman's eyes opened. Her lips formed a glorious smile. Bomanz forgot Stancil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Welcome, said a voice within his mind. We have waited a long time, haven't we?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dumbstruck, he simply nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have watched you. Yes, I see everything in this forsaken wilderness. I tried to help. The barriers were too many and too great. That cursed White Rose. She was no fool.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz glanced at the Dominator. That huge, handsome warrior-emperor slept on. Bomanz envied him his physical perfection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sleeps a deeper sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did he hear mockery? He could not read her face. The glamor was too much for him. He suspected that had been true for many men, and that it was true that she had been the driving force of the Domination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was. And next time…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Next time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mirth surrounded him like the tinkle of wind chimes in a gentle breeze. You came to learn, O wizard. How will you repay vour teacher?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here was the moment for which he had lived. His triumph lay before him. One part to go…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You were crafty. You were so careful, took so long, even that Monitor discounted you. I applaud you, wizard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hard part. Binding this creature to his will.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wind-chimes laughter. You don't plan to bargain? You mean to compel?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I have to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You won't give me anything?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't give you what you want."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mirth again. Silver-bells mirth. You can't compel me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz shrugged imaginary shoulders. She was wrong. He had a lever. He had stumbled onto it as a youth, had recognized its significance immediately, and had set his feet on the long path leading to this moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had found a cipher. He had broken it and it had given him the Lady's patronym, a name common in pre-Domination histories. Circumstances implicated one of that family's several daughters as the Lady. A little historical detective work had completed the task.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So he had solved a mystery that had baffled thousands for hundreds of years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Knowing her true name gave him the power to compel the Lady. In wizardry, the true name is identical with the thing…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could have shrieked. It seemed my correspondent ended on the brink of the very revelation for which I had been searching these many years. Damn his black heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time there was a postscript, a little something more than story. The letter-writer had added what looked like chicken scratches. That they were meant to communicate I had no doubt. But I could make nothing of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As always, there was neither signature nor seal.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_21" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36399814" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36399817" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty:
THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The rain never ceased. Mostly it was little more than a drizzle. When the day went especially well, it slackened to a falling mist. But always there was precipitation. Corbie went out anyway, though he complained often about aches in his leg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the weather bothers you so, why stay here?" Case asked. "You said you think your kids live in Opal. Why not go down there and look for them yourself? At least the weather would be decent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a tough question. Corbie had yet to create a convincing answer. He had not yet found one that would do himself, let alone enemies who might ask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was nothing Corbie was afraid to do. In another life, as another man, he had challenged the hellmakers themselves, unafraid. Swords and sorcery and death could not intimidate him. Only people, and love, could terrify him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Habit, I guess," he said. Weakly. "Maybe I could live in Oar. Maybe. I don't deal well with people, Case. I don't like them that much. I couldn't stand the Jewel Cities. Did I tell you I was down there once?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case had heard the story several times. He suspected Corbie had been more than down there. He thought one of the Jewel Cities was Corbie's original home. "Yeah. When the big Rebel push in Forsberg started. You told me about seeing the Tower on the way up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. I did. Memory's slipping. Cities. I don't like them, lad. Don't like them. Too many people. Sometimes there's too many of them here. Was when I first came.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nowadays it's about right. About right. Maybe too much fuss and bother because of the undead over there." He poked his chin toward the Great Barrow. "But otherwise about right. One or two of you guys I can talk to. Nobody else to get in my way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case nodded. He thought he understood while not understanding. He had known other old veterans. Most had had their peculiarities. "Hey! Corbie. You ever run into the Black Company when you was up here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie froze, stared with such intensity the young soldier blushed. "Uh… What's the matter, Corbie? I say something wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie resumed walking, his limp not slowing a furiously increased pace. "It was odd. Like you were reading my mind. Yes. I ran into those guys. Bad people. Very bad people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My dad told us stories about them. He was with them during the long retreat to Charm. Lords, the Windy Country, the Stair of Tear, all those battles. When he got leave time after the battle at Charm, he came home. Told awful stories about those guys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I missed that part. I got left behind at Roses, when Shifter and the Limper lost the battle. Who was your dad with? You've never talked about him much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nightcrawler. I don't talk about him because we never got along."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie smiled. "Sons seldom get on with their fathers. And that's the voice of experience speaking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did your father do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie laughed. "He was a farmer. Of sorts. But I'd rather not talk about him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are we doing out here, Corbie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Double-checking Bomanz's surveys. But Corbie could not tell the lad that. Nor could he think of an adequate lie. "Walking in the rain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Corbie…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we keep it quiet for a while, Case? Please?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie limped all the way around the Barrowland, maintaining a respectful distance, never being too obvious. He did not use equipment. That would bring Colonel Sweet on the run. Instead, he consulted the wizard's chart in his mind. The thing blazed with its own life there, those arcane TelleKurre symbols glowing with a wild and dangerous life. Studying the remains of the Barrowland, he could find but a third of the map's referents. The rest had been undone by time and weather.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie was no man to have trouble with his nerve. But he was afraid now. Near the end of their stroll he said, "Case, I want a favor. Perhaps a double favor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir? Call me Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sounded so serious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is serious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Say on, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you be trusted to keep your mouth shut?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If necessary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to extract a conditional vow of silence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Case, I want to tell you something. In case something happens to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Corbie!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not a young man, Case. And I have a lot wrong with me. I've been through a lot. I feel it catching up. I don't expect to go soon. But things happen. If something should, there's something I don't want to die with me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I suggested something, can you keep it to yourself? Even if you think you maybe shouldn't? Can you do something for me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're making it hard, not telling me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. It's not fair. The only other man I trust is Colonel Sweet. And his position wouldn't let him make such a promise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not illegal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not strictly speaking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't guess, Case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. You have my word."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good. Thank you. It is appreciated, never doubt that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two things. First. If something happens to me, go to the room on the second floor of my home. If I have left an oilskin packet on the table there, see that it gets to a blacksmith named Sand, in Oar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case looked suitably dubious and baffled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Second, after you do that-and only after-tell the Colonel the undead are stirring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case stopped walking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Case." There was a note of command in Corbie's voice the youth had not heard before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. All right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Corbie…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No questions now. In a few weeks, maybe I can explain everything. All right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not a word now. And remember. Packet to Sand the blacksmith. Then word to the Colonel. Tell you what. If I can, I'll leave the Colonel a letter, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case merely nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie took a deep breath. It had been twenty years since he had attempted the simplest divining spell. Never had he tried anything on the order of what he now faced. Back in those ancient times, when he was another man, or boy, sorcery was a diversion for wealthy youths who would rather play wizard than pursue legitimate studies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All was ready. The tools of the sorcerer appropriate to the task lay on the table on the second floor of the house that Bomanz built. It was fitting that he follow the old one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched the oilskin packet left for Case, the opaque letter to Sweet, and prayed neither would touch the young man's hands. But if what he suspected were true, it was better the enemy knew than the world be surprised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was nothing left to do but do it. He gulped half a cup of cold tea, took his seat. He closed his eyes, began a chant taught him when he was younger than Case. His was not the method Bomanz had used, but it was as effective.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His body would not relax, would not cease distracting him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But at last the full lethargy closed in. His ka loosed its ten thousand anchors to his flesh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Part of him insisted he was a fool for attempting this without the skills of a master. But he hadn't the time for the training a Bomanz required. He had learned what he could during his absence from the Old Forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Free of the flesh, yet connected by invisible bonds that would draw him back. If his luck held. He moved away carefully. He conformed to the rule of bodies exactly. He used the stairway, the doorway, and the sidewalks built by the Guard. Maintain the pretense of flesh and the flesh would be harder to forget.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The world looked different. Each object had its unique aura. He found it difficult to concentrate on the grand task.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved to the bounds of the Barrowland. He shuddered under the impact of thrumming old spells that kept the Domi-nator and several lesser minions bound. The power there! Carefully, he walked the boundary till he found the way that Bomanz had opened, still not fully healed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped over the line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew the instant attention of every spirit, benign and malign, chained within the Barrowland. There were far more than he expected. Far more than the wizard's map indicated. Those soldier symbols that surrounded the Great Barrow… They were not statues. They were men, soldiers of the White Rose, who had been set as spirit guards perpetually standing between the world and the monster that would devour it. How driven must they have been. Now dedicated to their cause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The path wound past the former resting places of old Taken, outer circle, inner circle, twisting. Within the inner circle he saw the true forms of several lesser monsters that had served the Domination. The path stretched like a trail of pale silver mist. Behind him that mist became more dense, his passage strengthening the way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ahead, stronger spells. And all those men who had gone into the earth to surround the Dominator. And beyond them, the greater fear. The dragon thing that, on Bomanz's map, lay coiled around the crypt in the heart of the Great Barrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Spirits shrieked at him in TelleKurre, in UchiTelle, in languages he did not know and tongues vaguely like some still current. One and all, they cursed him. One and all, he ignored them. There was a thing in a chamber beneath the greatest mound. He had to see if it lay as restless as he suspected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dragon. Oh, by all the gods that never were, that dragon was real. Real, alive, of flesh, yet it sensed and saw him. The silver trail curved past its jaws, through the gap between teeth and tail. It beat at him with a palpable will. But he would not be stayed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No more guardians. Just the crypt. And the monster man inside was constrained. He had survived the worst…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old devil should be sleeping. Hadn't the Lady defeated him in his attempt to escape through Juniper? Hadn't she put him back down?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a tomb like many around the world. Perhaps a bit richer. The White Rose had laid her opponents down in style. There were no sarcophagi, though. There. That empty table was where the Lady would have lain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other boasted a sleeping man. A big man, and handsome, but with the mark of the beast upon him, even in repose. A face full of hot hatred, of the anger of defeat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah, then. His suspicions were groundless. The monster slept indeed…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dominator sat up. And smiled. His smile was the most wicked Corbie had ever seen. Then the undead extended a hand in welcome. Corbie ran.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mocking laughter pursued him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Panic was an emotion entirely unfamiliar. Seldom had he experienced it. He could not control it. He was only vaguely aware of passing the dragon and the hate-filled spirits of White Rose soldiers. He barely sensed the Dominator's creatures beyond, all howling in delight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even in his panic he clung to the misty trail. He made only one misstep…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But that was sufficient.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The storm broke over the Barrowland. It was the most furious in living memory. The lightning clashed with the ferocity of heavenly armies, hammers and spears and swords of fire smiting earth and sky. The downpour was incessant and impenetrable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One mighty bolt struck the Barrowland. Earth and shrubbery flew a hundred yards into the air. The earth staggered. The Eternal Guard scrambled to arms terrified, sure the old evil had broken its chains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the Barrowland two large shapes, one four-footed, one bipedal, formed in the afterglow of the lightning strike. In a moment both raced along a twisting path, leaving no mark upon water or mud. They passed the bounds of the Barrowland, fled toward the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one saw them. When the Guard reached the Barrowland, carrying weapons and lanterns and fear like vast loads of lead, the storm had waned. The lightning had ceased its boisterous brawl. The rain had fallen off to normal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colonel Sweet and his men spent hours roaming the bounds of the Barrowland. No one found a thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Eternal Guard returned to its compound cursing the gods and weather.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the second floor of Corbie's house Corbie's body continued to breathe one breath each five minutes. His heart barely turned over. He would be a long time dying without his spirit.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_22" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36400226" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36400228" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-One:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I asked to see Darling and got an immediate audience. She expected me to come in raising hell about ill-advised military actions by outfits that could not afford losses. She expected lessons in the importance of maintaining cadres and forces-in-being. I surprised her by coming with neither. Here she was, primed to weather the worst, to get it over so she could get back to business, and I disappointed her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead, I took her the letters from Oar, which I had shared with no one yet. She expressed curiosity. I signed: "Read them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took a while. The Lieutenant ducked in and out, growing more impatient each time. She finished, looked at me. "Well?" she signed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That comes from the core of the documents I am missing. Along with a few other things, that story is what I have been hunting. Soulcatcher gave me to believe that the weapon we want is hidden inside this story."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is not complete." "No. But does it not give you pause?" "You have no idea who the writer is?" "No. And no way to find out, short of looking him up. Or her." Actually, I had a couple of suspicions, but each seemed more unlikely than the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"These have come with swift regularity," Darling observed. "After all this time." That made me suspect she shared one of my suspicions. That "all this time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The couriers believe they were forwarded over a more spread period."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is interesting, but not yet useful. We must await more." "It will not hurt to consider what it means. The end part of the last, there. That is beyond me. I have to work on that. It may be critical. Unless it is meant to baffle someone who intercepts the fragment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shuffled out the last sheet, stared at it. A sudden light illuminated her face. "It is the finger speech. Croaker," she signed. "The letters. See? The speaking hand, as it forms the alphabet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I circled behind her. I saw it now, and felt abysmally stupid for having missed it. Once you saw that, it was easy to read. If you knew your sign. It said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This may be the last communication, Croaker. There is something I must do. The risks are grave. The chances hang against me, but I must go ahead. If you do not receive the final installment, about Bomanz's last days, you will have to come collect it. I will conceal one copy within the home of the wizard, as the story describes. You may find another in Oar. Ask for the blacksmith named Sand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wish me luck. By now you must have found a place of safety. I would not bring you forth unless the fate of the world hinged upon it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no signature here, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling and I stared at one another. I asked, "What do you think? What should I do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if no further episodes are forthcoming?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you must go looking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." Fear. The world was marshaled against us. The Rust raid would have the Taken in a vengeful frenzy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It may be the great hope, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Barrowland, Darling. Only the Tower itself could be more dangerous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps I should accompany you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No! You will not be risked. Not under any circumstances. The movement can survive the loss of one beat-up, worn-out old physician. It cannot without the White Rose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hugged me hard, backed off, signed, "I am not the White Rose, Croaker. She is dead four centuries. I am Darling."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our enemies call you the White Rose. Our friends do. There is power in a name." I waved the letters. "That is what this is about. One name. What you have been named you must be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am Darling," she insisted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To me, maybe. To Silent. To a few others. But to the world you are the White Rose, the hope and the salvation." It occurred to me that a name was missing. The name Darling wore before she became a ward of the Company. Always she had been Darling, because that was what Raven called her. Had he known her birthname? If so, it no longer mattered. She was safe. She was the last alive to know it, if even she remembered. The village where we found her, mauled by the Limper's troops, was not the sort that kept written records.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go," she signed. "Study. Think. Be of good faith. Somewhere, soon, you will find the thread."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_23" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36400359" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36400361" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Two:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The men who fled Rust with the cowardly windwhale eventually arrived. We learned that the Taken had escaped the Plain, all in a rage because but one carpet survived. Their offensive would be delayed till the carpets were replaced. And carpets are among the greatest and most costly magicks. I suspect the Limper had to do a lot of explaining to the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drafted One-Eye, Goblin, and Silent into an expanded project. I translated. They extracted proper names, assembled them in charts. My quarters became all but impenetrable. And barely livable while they were there, for Goblin and One-Eye had had a couple of tastes of life outside Darling's null. They were at one another constantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And I began having nightmares.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One evening I posed a challenge, half as a result of no further courier arriving, half as busy work meant to stop Goblin and One-Eye from driving me mad. I said, "I may have to leave the Plain. Can you do something so I don't attract any special attention?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had their questions. I answered most honestly. They wanted to go too, as if a journey west was established fact. I said, "No way are you going. A thousand miles of this crap? I'd commit suicide before we got off the Plain. Or murder one of you. Which I'm considering anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin squeaked. He pretended mortal terror. One-Eye said, "Get within ten feet of me and I'll turn you into a lizard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I made a rude noise. "You can barely turn food into shit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin cackled. "Chickens and cows do better. You can fertilize with theirs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got no room to talk, runt," I snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Getting touchy in his old age," One-Eye observed. "Must be rheumatiz. Got the rheumatiz, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'll wish his problem was rheumatism if he keeps on," Goblin promised. "It's bad enough I have to put up with you. But you're at least predictable."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Predictable?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like the seasons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were off. I sped Silent a look of appeal. The son-of-a-bitch ignored me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next day Goblin ambled in wearing a smug smile. "We figured something out, Croaker. In case you do go wandering."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll need your amulets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had two that they had given me long ago. One was supposed to warn me of the proximity of the Taken. It worked quite well. The other, ostensibly, was protective, but it also let them locate me from a distance. Silent tracked it the time Catcher sent Raven and me to ambush Limper and Whisper in the Forest of Cloud, when Limper tried to go over to the Rebel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Long ago and far away. Memories of a younger Croaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll work up some modifications. So you can't be located magically. Let me have them. Later we'll have to go outside to test them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I eyed him narrowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, "You'll have to come so we can test them by trying to find you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Sounds like a drummed-up excuse to get outside the null."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe." He grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever, Darling liked the notion. Next evening we headed up the creek, skirting Old Father Tree. "He looks a little peaked," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Caught the side wash of a Taken spell during the brouhaha," One-Eye explained. "I don't think he was pleased."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old tree tinkled. I stopped, considered it. It had to be thousands of years old. Trees grow very slow on the Plain. What stories it would tell!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Croaker," Goblin called. "Old Father ain't talking." He grinned his frog grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They know me too well. Know when I see anything old I wonder what it has seen. Damn them, anyhow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We left the watercourse five miles from the Hole, quartered westward into desert where the coral was especially dense and dangerous. I guess there were five hundred species, in reefs so close they were almost impenetrable. The colors were riotous. Fingers, fronds, branches of coral soared thirty feet into the air. I remain eternally amazed that the wind does not topple them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a small sandy place surrounded by coral, One-Eye called a halt. "This is far enough. We'll be safe here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered. Our progress had been followed by manias and the creatures that resemble buzzards. Never will I trust such beasts completely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Long, long ago, after the Battle at Charm, the Company crossed the Plain en route to assignments in the east. I saw horrible things happen. I could not shake the memories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye played games but also tended to business. They remind me of active children. Always into something, just to be doing. I lay back and watched the clouds. Soon I fell asleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin wakened me. He returned my amulets. "We're going to play hide-and-seek," he said. "We'll give you a head start. If we've done everything right, we won't be able to find you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now that's wonderful," I replied. "Me alone out here, wandering around lost." I was just carping. I could find the Hole. As a nasty practical joke I was tempted to head straight there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was business, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I set off to the southwest, toward the buttes. I crossed the westward trail and went into hiding among quiescent walking trees. Only after darkness fell did I give up waiting. I walked back to the Hole, wondering what had become of my companions. I startled the sentry when I arrived. "Goblin and One-Eye come in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I thought they were with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They were." Concerned, I went below, asked the Lieutenant's advice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go find them," he told me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me like I was a half-wit. "Leave your silly amulets, go outside the null, and wait."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So I went back outside, walked up the creek, grumbling. My feet ached. I was not used to so much hiking. Good for me, I told myself. Had to be in shape if there was a trip to Oar in the cards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I reached the edge of the coral reefs. "One-Eye! Goblin! You guys around?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No answer. I was not going on looking, though. The coral would kill me. I circled north, assuming they had moved away from the Hole. Each few minutes I dropped to my knees, hoping to spot a menhir's silhouette. The menhirs would know what had become of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once I saw some flash and fury from the corner of my eye and, without thinking, ran that way, thinking it was Goblin and One-Eye squabbling. But a direct look revealed the distant rage of a change storm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped immediately, belatedly remembering that only death hurries on the Plain by night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was lucky. Just steps onward the sand became spongy, loose. I squatted, sniffed a handful. It held the smell of old death. I backed away carefully. Who knows what lay in waiting beneath that sand?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better plant somewhere and wait for the sun," I muttered. I was no longer certain of my position.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found some rocks that would break the wind, some brush for firewood, and pitched camp. The fire was more to declare myself to beasts than to keep warm. The night was not cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Firemaking was a symbolic statement out there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once the flames rose I found that the place had been used before. Smoke had blackened the rocks. Native humans, probably. They wander in small bands. We have little intercourse with them. They have no interest in the world struggle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Will failed me sometime after the second hour. I fell asleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nightmare found me. And found me unshielded by amulets or null.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She came.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been years. Last time it was to report the final defeat of her husband in the affair at Juniper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A golden cloud, like dust motes dancing in a sunbeam. An all-over feeling of being awake while sleeping. Calmness and fear together. An inability to move. All the old symptoms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A beautiful woman formed in the cloud, a woman out of daydream. The sort you hope to meet someday, knowing there is no chance. I cannot say what she wore, if she wore anything. My universe consisted of her face and the terror its presence inspired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her smile was not at all cold. Long ago, for some reason, she took an interest in me. I supposed she retained some residue of the old affection, as one does for a pet long dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Physician." Breeze in the reeds beside the waters of eternity. The whisper of angels. But never could she make me forget the reality whence the voice sprang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nor was she ever so gauche as to tempt me, either with promises or herself. That, perhaps, is one reason I think she felt a certain fondness. When she used me, she gave it to me straight going in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could not respond.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are safe. Long ago, by your standard of time, I said I would remain in touch. I have been unable. You cut me off. I have been trying for weeks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nightmares explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I squeaked like Goblin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Join me at Charm. Be my historian."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As always when she touched me, I was baffled. She seemed to consider me outside the struggle while yet a part of it. On the Stair of Tear, on the eve of the most savage sorcerous struggle ever I witnessed, she came to promise me I would come to no harm. She seemed intrigued with my lesser role as Company historian. Back when, she insisted I record events as they happened. Without regard to pleasing anyone. I had done so within the limits of my prejudices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The heat in the crucible is rising, physician. Your White Rose is crafty. Her attack behind the Limper was a grand stroke. But insignificant on the broader canvas. Don't you agree?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How could I argue? I did agree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As your spies have no doubt reported, five armies stand poised to cleanse the Plain of Fear. It is a strange and unpredictable land. But it will not withstand what is being marshaled."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again I could not argue, for I believed her. I could but do what Darling so often spoke of: Buy time. "You may be surprised."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps. Surprises have been calculated into my plans. Come out of that cold waste, Croaker. Come to the Tower. Become my historian."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was as near temptation as ever she had come. She spoke to a part of me I do not understand, a part almost willing to betray comrades of decades. If I went, there was so much I would know. So many answers illuminated. So many curiosities satisfied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You escaped us at Queen's Bridge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Heat climbed my neck. During our years on the run the Lady's forces had overtaken us several times. Queen's Bridge was the worst. A hundred brothers had fallen there. And to my shame, I left the Annals behind, buried in the river bank. Four hundred years worth of Company history, abandoned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was just so much that could be carried away. The papers down in the Hole were critical to our future. I took them instead of the Annals. But I suffer frequent bouts of guilt. I must answer the shades of brethren who have gone before. Those Annals are the Black Company. While they exist, the Company lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We escaped and escaped, and will continue to escape. It is fated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, amused. "I have read your Annals, Croaker. New and old."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I began throwing wood onto the embers of my fire. I was not dreaming. "You have them?" Till that moment I had silenced guilt with promises to recover them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They were found after the battle. They came to me. I was pleased. You are honest, as historians go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you. I try."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come to Charm. There is a place for you in the Tower. You can see the grand canvas from here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I cannot shield you there. If you stay, you must face what befalls your Rebel friends. The Limper commands that campaign. I will not interfere. He is not what he was. You hurt him. And he had to be hurt more to be saved. He has not forgiven you that, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know." How many times had she used my name? In all our contacts previously, over years, she had used it but once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't let him take you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A slight, twisted bit of humor rose from somewhere inside me. "You are a failure. Lady."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was taken aback.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fool that I am, I recorded my romances in the Annals. You read them. You know I never characterized you as black. Not. I think, as I would characterize your husband. I suspect an unconsciously sensed truth lies beneath the silliness of those romances."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Indeed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you are black. I think you're just trying. I think that, for all the wickedness you've done, part of the child that was remains untainted. A spark remains, and you can't extinguish it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unchallenged, I became more daring. "I think you've selected me as a symbolic sop to that spark. I am a reclamation project meant to satisfy a hidden streak of decency, the way my friend Raven reclaimed a child who became the White Rose. You read the Annals. You know to what depths Raven sank once he concentrated all decency in one cup. Better, perhaps, that he had had none at all. Juniper might still exist. So might he."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Juniper was a boil overdue for lancing. I am not come to be mocked, physician. I will not be made to look weak even before an audience of one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to protest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For I know that this, too, will end up in your Annals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew me. But then, she had had me before the Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come to the Tower, Croaker. I demand no oath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lady…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even the Taken bind themselves with deadly oaths. You may remain free. Just do what you do. Heal, and record the truth. What you would do anywhere. You have value not to be wasted out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now there was a sentiment with which I could agree wholeheartedly. I would take it back and rub some people's noses in it. "Say what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She started to speak. I raised a warning hand. I had spoken to myself, not to her. Was that a footfall? Yes. Something big coming. Something moving slowly, wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sensed it, too. An eye blink and she was gone, her departure sucking something from my mind, so that once more I was not certain I had not dreamed everything, for all that every word remained immutably inscribed on the stone of my mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shuffled brush onto my fire, backed into a crack behind the dagger that was the only weapon I'd had sense enough to bring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It came closer. Then paused. Then came on. My heartbeat increased. Something thrust into the firelight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Toadkiller Dog! What the hell, hey? What're you doing? Come on in out of the cold, boy." The words tumbled out, bearing fear away. "Boy, will Tracker be glad to see you. What happened to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He came forward cautiously, looking twice as mangy as ever. He dropped onto his belly, rested his chin on forepaws, closed one eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have any food. I'm sort of lost myself. You're damned lucky, know that? Making it this far. The plain is a bad place to be on your own."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Right then that old mongrel looked like he agreed. Body language, if you will. He had survived, but it had not been easy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him, "Sun comes up, we'll head back. Goblin and One-Eye got lost; it's their own tough luck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After Toadkiller Dog's arrival I rested better. I guess the old alliance is imprinted on people, too. I was confident he would warn me if trouble beckoned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Come morning we found the creek and headed for the Hole. I stopped, as I often do, to approach Old Father Tree for a little one-sided conversation about what he had seen during his long sentinelship. The dog would not come anywhere near. Weird. But so what? Weird is the order of the day on the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found One-Eye and Goblin snoring, sleeping in. They had returned to the Hole only minutes after my departure in search of them. Bastards. I would redress the balance when the chance came.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drove them crazy by not mentioning my night out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did it work?" I demanded. Down the tunnel Tracker was having a noisy reunion with his mutt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sort of," Goblin said. He was not enthusiastic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sort of? What's sort of! Does it work or doesn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, what we got is a problem. Mainly, we can keep the Taken from locating you. From getting a fix on you, so to speak."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Obfuscation is a sure sign of trouble with this guy. "But? Butt me the but, Goblin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you go outside the null, there's no hiding the fact that you are out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great. Real great. What good are you guys, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not that bad," One-Eye said. "You wouldn't attract any attention unless they find out you're out from some other source. I mean, they wouldn't be watching for you, would they? No reason to. So it's just as good as if we got it to do everything we wanted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Crap! You better start praying that next letter comes through. Because if I go out and get my ass killed, guess who's going to haunt whom forever?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Darling wouldn't send you out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bet? She'll go through three or four days of soul-searching. But she'll send me. Because that last letter will give us the key."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sudden fear. Had the Lady probed my mind?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was saved a lie by Tracker's advent. He bounced in and pumped my hand like a mad fool. "Thank you, Croaker. Thanks for bringing him home." Out he went.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell was that?" Goblin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I brought his dog home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Weird."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye chortled. "The pot calling the kettle black."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Lizard snot. Want me to tell you about weird?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stow it," I said. "If I get sent out of here I want this stuff in perfect order. I just wish we had people who could read this junk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I can help." Tracker was back. The big dumb lout. A devil with a sword, but probably unable to write his own name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could read some of that stuff. I know some old language. My father taught me." He grinned as if at a huge joke. He selected a piece written in TelleKurre. He read it aloud. The ancient language rolled off his tongue naturally, as I had heard it spoken among the old Taken. Then he translated. It was a memo to a castle kitchen about a meal to be prepared for visiting notables. I went over it painstakingly. His translation was faultless. Better than I could do. A third of the words evaded me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. Welcome to the team. I'll tell Darling." I slipped out, exchanging a puzzled glance with One-Eye behind Tracker's back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stranger and stranger. What was this man? Besides weird. At first encounter he reminded me of Raven, and fit the role. When I came to think of him as big, slow, and clumsy, he fit that role. Was he a reflection of the image in his beholder?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A good fighter, though, bless him. Worth ten of anyone else we have.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_24" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36400978" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36400980" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Three:
THE PLAIN OF FEAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the time of the Monthly Meeting. The big confab during which nothing gets done. During which all heads yammer of pet projects on which action cannot be taken. After six or eight hours of which Darling closes debate by telling us what to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The usual charts were up. One showed where our agents believed the Taken to be. Another showed incursions reported by the menhirs. Both showed a lot of white, areas of Plain unknown to us. A third chart showed the month's change storms, a pet project of the Lieutenant's. He was looking for something. As always, most were along the periphery. But there was an unusually large number, and higher than normal percentage, in this chart's interior. Seasonal? A genuine shift? Who knew? We had not been watching long enough. The menhirs will not bother explaining such trivia.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling took charge immediately. She signed, "The operation in Rust had the effect I hoped. Our agents have reported anti-imperial outbreaks almost everywhere. They have diverted some attention from us. But the armies of the Taken keep building. Whisper has become especially aggressive in her incursions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Imperial troops entered the Plain almost every day, probing for a response and preparing their men for the Plain's perils. Whisper's operations, as always, were very professional. Militarily, she is to be feared far more than the Limper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Limper is a loser. That is not his fault, entirely, but the stigma has attached itself. Winner or loser, though, he is running the other side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Word came this morning that Whisper has established a garrison a day's march inside the boundary. She is erecting fortifications, daring our response."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her strategy was apparent. Establish a network of mutually supporting fortresses; build it slowly until it is spread out over the Plain. She was dangerous, that woman. Especially if she sold the idea to the Limper and got all the armies into the act.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As a strategy it goes back to the dawn of time, having been used again and again where regular armies face partisans in wild country. It is a patient strategy that depends on the will of the conqueror to persevere. It works where that will exists and fails where it does not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here it will work. The enemy has twenty-some years to root us out. And feels no need to hold the Plain once done with us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Us? Let us say, instead, Darling. The rest of us are nothing in the equation. If Darling falls, there is no Rebellion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are taking away time," Darling signed. "We need decades. We have to do something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here it comes, I thought. She had on that look. She was going to announce the result of much soul-searching. So I was not struck down with astonishment when she signed, "I am sending Croaker to recover the rest of his correspondent's story." News of the letters had spread. Darling will gossip. "Goblin and One-Eye will accompany and support him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? There ain't no way…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't do it. Look at me. I'm a nothing guy. Who's going to notice me? One old guy wandering around. The world is full of them. But three guys? One of them black? One of them a runt with…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye sped me milk-curdling looks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I snickered. My outburst put them in a tight place. Though they wanted to go no more than I wanted them along, they now dared not agree with me publicly. Worse, they had to agree with each other. Ego!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But my point remained. Goblin and One-Eye are known characters. For that matter, so am I, but as I pointed out, I'm not physically remarkable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling signed, "Danger will encourage their cooperation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fled to my last citadel. "The Lady touched me on the desert that night I was out, Darling. She is watching for me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling thought a moment, signed back, "That changes nothing. We must have that last piece of story before the Taken close in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was right about that. But…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She signed, "You three will go. Be careful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker followed the debate with Otto's help. He offered, "I'll go. I know the north. Especially the Great Forest. That's where I got my name." Behind him, Toadkiller Dog yawned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Croaker?" Darling asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was not yet resigned to going. So I passed it back to her. "Up to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could use a fighter," she signed. "Tell him you accept."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I mumbled and muttered, faced Tracker. "She says you go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked pleased.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As far as Darling was concerned, that was that. The thing was settled. They hastened down the agenda to a report from Corder suggesting Tanner was ripe for a raid like that on Rust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fussed and fumed and no one paid me any mind, except Goblin and One-Eye, who sent me looks saying I would rue my insults.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No fooling around. We left fourteen hours later. With everything arranged for us. Dragged out of bed soon after midnight, I quickly found myself topside, beside the coral, watching a small windwhale descend. A menhir yammered behind me, instructing me in the care and stroking of the windwhale ego. I ignored him. This had come on too swiftly. I was being shoved into the saddle before I'd made up my mind to go. I was living behind events.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had my weapons, my amulets, money, food. Everything I should need. Likewise Goblin and One-Eye, who had provided themselves with a supplementary arsenal of thaumatur-gic gewgaws. The plan was to purchase a wagon and team after the windwhale dropped us behind enemy lines. All the junk they were bringing, I grumbled, we might need two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker traveled light, though. Food, an array of weapons selected from what we had on hand, and his mutt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale rose. Night enveloped us. I felt lost. I hadn't gotten so much as a good-bye hug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhale went up where the air was chill and thin. To the east, the south, and northwest I spied the glimmer of change storms. They were becoming more common.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I guess I was getting blase about windwhale-riding. Shivering, huddling into myself, ignoring Tracker, who was a positive chatterbox yammering about trivia, I fell asleep. I wakened to a shaking hand and Tracker's face inches from mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wake up, Croaker," he kept saying. "Wake up. One-Eye says we got trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rose, expecting to find Taken circling us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were surrounded, but by four windwhales and a score of mantas. "Where did they come from?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Showed up while you were sleeping."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the trouble?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker pointed, off what I guess you would call our starboard bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Change storm. Shaping.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just popped out of nowhere," Goblin said, joining us. too nervous to remember he was mad at me. "Looks like a bad one, too, the rate it's growing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The change storm was no more than four hundred yards in diameter now, but the pastel-Iightninged fury in its heart said it would grow swiftly and terribly. Its touch would be more than normally dramatic. Varicolored light painted faces and windwhales bizarrely. Our convoy shifted course. The windwhales are not as much affected as humans, but they prefer to dodge trouble where possible. It was clear, though, that fringes of the monster would brush us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even as I recognized and thought about it, the storm's size increased. Six hundred yards in diameter. Eight hundred. Roiling, boiling color within what looked like black smoke. Serpents of silent lightning snapped and snarled soundlessly around one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bottom of the change storm touched ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All those lightnings found their voices. And the storm expanded even more rapidly, hurling in another direction that growth which should have gone earthward. It was terrible with energy, this one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Change storms seldom came nearer than eight miles to the Hole. They are impressive enough from that distance, when you catch only a whiff that crackles in your hair and makes your nerves go frazzled. In olden times, when we still served the Lady, I talked to veterans of Whisper's campaigns who told me of suffering through the storms. I never wholly credited their tales.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did so as the boundary of the storm gained on us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the manias was caught. You could see through it, its bones white against sudden darkness. Then it changed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everything changed. Rocks and trees became protean. Small things that followed and pestered us shifted form…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There is a hypothesis which states that the strange species of the Plain have appeared as a result of change storms. It has been proposed, too, that the change storms are responsible for the Plain itself. That each gnaws a bit more off our normal world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whales gave up trying to outrun the storm and plunged earthward, below the curve of expanding storm, getting down where the fall would be shorter if they changed into something unable to fly. Standard procedure for anyone caught in a change storm. Stay low and don't move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper's veterans spoke of lizards growing to elephant size, of spiders becoming monstrous, of poisonous serpents sprouting wings, of intelligent creatures going mad and trying to murder everything about them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not too scared to observe, though. After the manta showed us its bones it resumed its normal form, but grew. As did a second when the boundary overtook it. Did that mean a common tendency toward growth on a storm's outward pulse?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The storm caught our windwhale, which was the slowest getting down. Young it was, but conscientious about its burden. The crackle in my hair peaked. I thought my nerves would betray me completely. A glance at Tracker convinced me we were going to have a major case of panic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin or One-Eye, one, decided to be a hero and stay the storm. Might as well have ordered the sea to turn. The crash and roar of a major sorcery vanished in the rage of the storm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an instant of utter stillness when the boundary reached me. Then a roar out of hell. The winds inside were ferocious. I thought of nothing but getting down and hanging on. Around me gear was flying about, changing shape as it flew. Then I spied Goblin. And nearly threw up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin indeed. His head had swelled ten times normal size. The rest of him looked inside out. Around him swarmed a horde of the parasites that live on a windwhale's back, some as big as pigeons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker and Toadkiller Dog were worse. The mutt had become something half as big as an elephant, fanged, possessed of the most evil eyes I've ever seen. He looked at me with a starved lust that chilled my soul. And Tracker had become something demonic, vaguely apelike yet certainly much more. Both looked like creatures from an artist's or sorcerer's nightmares.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye was the least changed. He swelled, but remained One-Eye. Perhaps he is well-rooted in the world, being so damned old. Near as I can tell, he is pushing a hundred fifty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing that was Toadkiller Dog crept toward me with teeth bared… The windwhale touched down. Impact sent everyone tumbling. The wind screamed around us. The strange lightning hammered earth and air. The landing area itself was in a protean mood. Rocks crawled. Trees changed shape. The animals of that part of the Plain were out and gamboling in revised forms, one-time prey turning upon predator. The horror show was illuminated by a shifting, sometimes ghastly light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the vacuum at the heart of the storm enveloped us. Everything froze in the form it had at the last instant. Nothing moved. Tracker and Toadkiller Dog were down on the ground, thrown there after impact. One-Eye and Goblin faced one another, in the first phase of letting their feud go beyond its customary gamesmanship. The other windwhales lay nearby, not visibly affected. A manta plunged out of the color above, crashed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That stasis lasted maybe three minutes. In the stillness sanity returned. Then the change storm began to collapse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The devolution of the storm was slower than its growth. But saner, too. We suffered it for several hours. And then it was done. And our sole casualty was the one manta that had crashed. But damn, was it ever a shaking experience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn lucky," I told the others, as we inventoried our possessions. "Lucky we weren't all killed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No luck to it, Croaker," One-Eye replied. "The moment these monsters saw a storm coming they headed for safe ground. A place where there would be nothing that could kill us. Or them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin nodded. They were doing a lot of agreeing lately. But we all recalled how close they had come to murder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I asked, "What did I look like? I didn't feel any change, except a sort of nervous turmoil. Like being drunk, drugged, and half-crazy all at the same time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looked like Croaker to me," One-Eye said. "Only twice as ugly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And dull," Goblin added. "You made the most inspiring speech about the glories the Black Company won during the campaign against Chew."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I laughed. "Come on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really. You were just Croaker. Maybe those amulets are good for something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker was going over his weaponry. Toadkiller Dog was napping near his feet. I pointed. One-Eye signed, "Didn't see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin signed, "He grew up and got claws."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They did not seem concerned. I decided I should not be. After all, the whale lice were the nastiest thing after the mutt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhales remained grounded, for the sun was rising. Their backs assumed the dun color of the earth, complete with sage-colored patches, and we waited for the night. The mantas nested down on the other four whales. None came near us. You get the feeling humans make them uncomfortable.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_25" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36401366" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36401368" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Four:
THE WIDE WORLD <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">They never tell me anything. But I should complain? Secrecy is our armor. Need to know. All that crap. In our outfit it is the iron rule of survival.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our escort was not along just to help us break out of the Plain of Fear. They had their own mission. What I had not been told was that Whisper's headquarters was to be attacked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper had no warning. Our companion windwhales dropped away slowly as the edge of the Plain approached. Their mantas dropped with them. They caught favorable winds and pulled ahead. We climbed higher, into the pure shivers and gasp for breaths.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mantas struck first. In twos and threes they crossed the town at treelop level, loosing their bolts into Whisper's quarters. Rock and timbers flew like the dust around slamping hooves. Fires broke out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The monsters of the upper air rolled in behind as soldiers and civilians hit the streets. They unleashed bolls of their own. But the real horror was their tentacles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The windwhales gorged upon men and animals. They ripped houses and fortifications apart. They yanked trees out by their roots. And they pounded away at Whisper with their bolls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mantas, meantime, rose a thousand feet and plunged again, in their pairs and threes, this time to slrike at Whisper as she responded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her response, though it did set a broad patch of one windwhale's flank gruesomely aglow, pinpointed her for the mantas. They slapped her around good, though she did bring one down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We passed over, the flash and fires illuminating our monster's belly. If anyone in the crucible spotted us, I doubt they guessed we were going on. Goblin and One-Eye detected no interest in anything but survival.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It continued as we lost sight of the town. Goblin said they had Whisper on the run, too busy saving her own ass to help her men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glad they never pulled any of this crap on us," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a one-shot," Goblin countered. "Next time they'll be ready."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd have thought they'd be now, because of Rust."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe Whisper has an ego problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No maybe about it. I had dealt with her. It was her weak spot. She would have made no preparations because she believed we feared her too much. She was, after all, the most brilliant of the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our mighty steed ploughed the night, back brushing the stars, body gurgling, chugging, humming. I began to feel optimistic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At dawn we dropped into a canyon in the Windy Country, another big desert. Unlike the Plain, though, it is normal. A big emptiness where the wind blows all the time. We ate and slept. When night fell we resumed our journey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We left the desert south of Lords, turned north over the Forest of Cloud, avoiding settlements. Beyond the Forest of Cloud, though, the windwhale descended. And we were on our own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wish we could have gone the whole way airborne. But that was as far as Darling and the windwhales were willing to risk. Beyond lay heavily inhabited country. We could not hope to come down and pass the daylight hours unseen. So from there on we would travel the old-fashioned way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The free city of Roses was about fifteen miles away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Roses has been free throughout history, a republican plutocracy. Even the Lady did not see fit to buck tradition. One huge battle took place nearby, during the northern campaigns, but the site was of Rebel choosing, not ours. We lost. For several months Roses lost its independence. Then the Lady's victory at Charm ended Rebel dominion. All in all, though unaligned, Roses is a friend of the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Crafty bitch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We hiked. Our journey was an all-day affair. Neither I nor Goblin nor One-Eye were in good shape. Too much loafing. Getting too old.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This isn't smart," I said as we approached a gate in Roses' pale red walls, toward sunset. "We've all been here before. You two should be well-remembered, what with having robbed half the citizens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Robbed?" One-Eye protested. "Who robbed?…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Both of you clowns. Selling those damned guaranteed-to-work amulets when we were after Raker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raker was a one-time Rebel general. He had beaten the crap out of the Limper farther north; then the Company, with a little help from Soulcatcher, had sucked him into a trap in Roses. Both Goblin and One-Eye had preyed on the populace. One-Eye was an old hand at that. Back when we were in the south, beyond the Sea of Torments, he had been involved in every shady scheme he could find. Most of his ill-gotten gains he soon lost at cards. He is the world's worst cardplayer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You'd think by one-fifty he would learn to count them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The plan was for us to lay up at some sleazy no-questions-asked inn. Tracker and I would go out next day and buy a wagon and team. Then we would head out the way we had come, pick up what gear we had been unable to carry, and circle the city by heading north.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was the plan. Goblin and One-Eye did not stick to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rule Number One for a soldier: Stick to the mission. The mission is paramount.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For Goblin and One-Eye all rules are made to be broken. When Tracker and I returned, with Toadkiller Dog loafing along behind, it was late afternoon. We parked. Tracker stood by while I went upstairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No Goblin. No One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The proprietor told me they had left soon after I had, chattering about finding some women.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My fault. I was in charge. I should have foreseen it. It had been a long, long, long time. I paid for another two nights, just in case. Then I turned animals and wagon over to the holster's boy, had supper with a silent Tracker, and retreated to our room with several quarts of beer. We shared it, Tracker, me, and Toadkiller Dog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You going looking for them?" Tracker asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. If they haven't come back in two days or pulled the roof in on us, we'll go ahead without them. I don't want to be seen around them. There'll be people here who remember them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We got pleasantly buzzed. Toadkiller Dog seemed capable of drinking people under the table. Loved his beer, that dog. Actually got up and moved around when he didn't have to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next morning, no Goblin. No One-Eye. But plenty of rumors. We entered the common room late, after the morning crowd and before the noontime rush. The hostler had no other ears to bend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys hear about the ruckus over in the east end last night?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I groaned before he got to the meat of it. I knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Regular wahoo war party. Fires. Sorcery. Lynch mob. Excitement like this old town hain't seen since that time they were after that General What's-it the Lady wanted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After he went to pester another customer, I told Tracker, "We'd better get out now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about Goblin and One-Eye?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They can take care of themselves. If they got themselves lynched, tough. I'm not going poking around and getting myself a stretched neck, too. If they got away, they, know the plan. They can catch up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought the Black Company didn't leave its dead behind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't." I said it, but maintained my determination to let the wizards stew in what juice they had concocted. I did not doubt that they had survived. They had been in trouble before, a thousand times. A good hike might have a salutary effect on their feel for mission discipline.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Meal finished, I informed the proprietor that Tracker and I were departing, but that our companions would keep the room. Then I led a protesting Tracker to the wagon, put him aboard, and when the boy had the hitch ready, headed for the western gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the long way, through tortuous streets, over a dozen arched bridges spanning canals, but it led away from yesterday's silliness. As we went I told Tracker how we had tricked Raker into a noose. He appreciated it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was the Company's trademark," I concluded. "Get the enemy to do something stupid. We were the best when it came to fighting, but we only fought when nothing else worked."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you were paid to fight." Things were black-and-white to Tracker. Sometimes I thought he had spent too much time in the woods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We were paid for results. If we could do the job without fighting, all the better. What you do is, you study your enemy. Find a weakness, then work on it. Darling is good at that. Though working on the Taken is easier than you would think. They're all vulnerable through their egos."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the Lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I couldn't say. She doesn't seem to have a handle. A touch of vanity, but I don't see how to get hold of it. Maybe through her drive to dominate. By getting her to overextend herself. I don't know. She's cautious. And smart. Like when she sucked the Rebel in at Charm. Killed three birds with one stone. Not only did she eliminate the Rebel; she exposed the unreliable among the Taken and squashed the Dominator's attempt to use them to get free."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He isn't a problem. He's probably more vulnerable than the Lady, though. He don't seem to think. He's like a bull. So damned strong that's all he needs. Oh, a little guile, like at Juniper, but mostly just the hammer-strokes type."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker nodded thoughtfully. "Could be something to what you say."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_26" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36401638" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36401640" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Five:
THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie miscalculated. He forgot that others beside Case were interested in his fate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he failed to show for work various places, people came looking for him. They pounded on doors, tapped on windows, and got no response. One tried the door. It was locked. Now there was genuine concern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some argued for kicking a break-in up the chain of command, others for moving now. The latter view prevailed. They broke the lock and spread out inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They found a place obsessive in its neatness, spartan in its furnishings. The first man upstairs yelped, "Here he is. He's had a stroke or something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pack crowded into the little upstairs room. Corbie sat at a table on which lay an oilskin packet and a book. "A book!" someone said. "He was weirder than we thought."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man touched Corbie's throat, felt a feeble pulse, noted that Corbie was taking shallow breaths spaced far more widely than those of a man sleeping. "Guess he did have a stroke. Like he was sitting here reading and it hit him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Had an uncle went like that," someone said. "When I was a kid. Telling us a story and just went white and keeled over."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's still alive. We better do something. Maybe he'll be all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A big rush downstairs, men tumbling over men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case heard when the group rushed into headquarters. He was on duty. The news put him in a quandary. He had promised Corbie… But he could not run off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet's personal interest got the news bucked up the ladder fast. The Colonel came out of his office. He noted Case looking stricken. "You heard. Come along. Let's have a look. You men. Find the barber. Find the vet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Made you reflect on the value of men when the army provided a vet but not a physician.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The day had begun auspiciously, with a clear sky. That was rare. Now it was cloudy. A few raindrops fell, spotting the wooden walks. As Case followed Sweet, and a dozen men followed him, he barely noted the Colonel's remarks about necessary improvements.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A crowd surrounded Corbie's place. "Bad news travels fast," Case said. "Sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't it? Make a hole here, men. Coming through." He paused inside. "He always this tidy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir. He was obsessive about order and doing things by the numbers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wondered. He stretched the rules a bit with his night walks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case gnawed his lip and wondered if he ought to give the Colonel Corbie's message. He decided it was not yet time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Upstairs?" the Colonel asked one of the men who had found Corbie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case was up the stairs already. He spied Corbie's oilskin packet, without thinking started to slide it inside his jacket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Son."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case turned. Sweet stood in the doorway, frowning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel was the most intimidating figure Case could imagine. More so than his father, who had been a harsh and exacting man. He did not know how to respond. He stood there shaking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel extended a hand. Case handed the packet over. "What were you doing, son?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh… Sir… One day…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" Sweet examined Corbie without touching him. "Well? Out with it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He asked me to deliver a letter for him if anything happened to him. Like he thought his time was running out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said it would be in an oilskin packet. On account of the rain and everything. Sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see." The Colonel slipped fingers under Corbie's chin, lifted. He returned the packet to the table, peeled back one of Corbie's eyelids. The pupil revealed was a pinprick. "Hmm." He felt Corbie's forehead. "Hmm." He flicked several reflex points with his finger or fist. Corbie did not respond. "Curious. Doesn't look like a stroke."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What else could it be, sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colonel Sweet straightened. "Maybe you'd know better than I."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You say Corbie expected something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly. He was afraid something would happen. Talked like he was getting old and his time was running out. Maybe he had something wrong he never told nobody about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. Ah. Holts." The horse doctor had arrived. He followed the course the Colonel had, straightened, shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Beyond me, Colonel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'd better move him where we can keep an eye on him. Your job, son," he told Case. "If he doesn't come out of it soon, we'll have to force-feed him." He poked around the room, checked the titles of the dozen or so books. "A learned man, Corbie. I thought so. A study in contrasts. I've often wondered what he really was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case was nervous for Corbie now. "Sir, I think that way back he was somebody in one of the Jewel Cities, but his luck turned and he joined the army."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll talk about it after we move him. Come along."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case followed. The Colonel seemed very thoughtful. Maybe he should give him Corbie's message.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_27" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36401826" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36401828" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Six:
ON THE ROAD <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">After three days during which Tracker and I returned to our landing place, loaded the wagon, then headed north on the Salient Road, I began to wonder if I had not erred. Still no Goblin or One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I need not have been concerned. They caught up near Meystrikt, a fortress in the Salient the Company once held on behalf of the Lady. We were off the road, in some woods, getting ready for supper. We heard a ruckus on the road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice undeniably Goblin's shouted, "And I insist it's your fault, you maggot-lipped excuse for fish bait. I'd turn your brain into pudding for getting me into it if you had one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My fault. My fault. Gods! He even lies to himself. I had to talk him into his own idea? Look there, guano breath. Meystrikt is around that hill. They'll remember us even better than they did in Roses. Now I'm going to ask you once. How do we get through without getting our throats cut?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After an initial relief I halted my rush toward the road. I told Tracker, "They're riding. Where do you suppose they got horses?" I tried finding a bright side. "Maybe they got into a game and got away with cheating. If One-Eye let Goblin do it." One-Eye is as inept at cheating as at games of chance themselves. There are times I think he has a positive death wish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You and your damned amulet," Goblin squeaked. "The Lady can't find him. That's great. But neither can we."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My amulet? My amulet? Who the hell gave it to him in the first place?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who designed the spell that's on it now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who cast it? Tell me that, toad face. Tell me that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved to the edge of the woods. They had passed already. Tracker joined me. Even Toadkiller Dog came to watch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Freeze. Rebel!" I shouted. "First one moves is dead meat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stupid, Croaker. Real stupid. Their response was swift and gaudy. It damned near killed me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They vanished in shining clouds. Around Tracker and me insects erupted. More kinds of bugs than I imagined existed, every one interested only in having me for supper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog snarled and snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Knock it off, you clowns," I yelled. "It's me. Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's Croaker?" One-Eye asked Goblin. "You know anybody named Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. But I don't think we ought to stop," Goblin replied, after sticking his head out of the shining to check. "He deserves it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure," One-Eye agreed. "But Tracker is innocent. I can't fine-tune it enough to get just Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bugs returned to routine bug business. Eating each other, I guess. I constrained my anger and greeted One-Eye and Goblin, both of whom had donned expressions of innocence and contrition. "What you got to say for yourselves, guys? Nice horses. Think the people they belong to will come looking for them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait up," Goblin squawked. "Don't go accusing us of..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you guys. Get down off those animals and come eat. We'll decide what to do with them tomorrow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned my back on them. Tracker had returned to our cook fire already. He dished up supper. I went to work on it, my temper still frayed. Stupid move, stealing horses. What with the uproar they had caused already… The Lady has agents everywhere. We may not be enemies of the grand sort, but we are what she has. Someone was bound to conclude that the Black Company was back in the north.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fell asleep contemplating turning back. The least likely direction for hunters to look would be on the route to the Plain of Fear. But I could not give the order. Too much depended on us. Though now my earlier optimism stood in serious jeopardy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damned irresponsible clowns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Way back down the line the Captain, who perished at Juniper, must have felt the same. We all gave him cause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I braced for a golden dream. I slept restlessly. No dream came. Next morning I packed Goblin and One-Eye into the wagon, beneath all the clutter we deemed necessary for our expedition, abandoned the horses, and took the wagon past Meystrikt. Toadkiller Dog ran point. Tracker strolled along beside. I drove. Under the tucker, Goblin and One-Eye sputtered and grumbled. The garrison at the fort merely asked where we were bound, in such a bored manner I knew they did not care.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These lands had been tamed since last I passed through. This garrison could not conceive of trouble lifting its naughty head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Relieved, I turned up the road that led to Elm and Oar. And to the Great Forest beyond.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_28" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36401969" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36401971" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Seven:
OAR <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't this weather ever let up?" One-Eye whined. For a week we had slogged northward, had been victimized by daily showers. The roads were bad and promised to get worse. Practicing my Forsbergeron wayside farmers, I learned that this weather had been common for years. It made getting crops to town difficult and, worse, left the grains at risk from disease. There had been an outbreak of the firedance in Oar already, a malady traceable to infected rye. There were a lot of insects, too. Especially mosquitos.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The winters, though abnormal in snow and rainfall, were milder than when we had been stationed here. Mild winters do not augur well for pest control. On the other hand, game species were diminished because they could not forage in the deep snows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cycles. Just cycles, the old-timers assured me. The bad winters come around after the Great Comet passes. But even they thought this a cycle among cycles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Today's weather is already the most impressive of all time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deal," Goblin said, and he did not mean cards. That fortress, which the Company took from the Rebel years ago, loomed ahead. The road meanders beneath its scowling walls. I was troubled, as always I was when our path neared an imperial bastion. But there was no need this time. The Lady was so confident of Forsberg that the great fortress stood abandoned. In fact, close up, it looked ragged. Its neighbors were stealing it piece by piece, after the custom of peasants the world over. I expect that is the only return they get on taxes, though they may have to wait generations for the worm to turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oar tomorrow," I said as we left the wagon outside an inn a few miles past Deal. "And this time there will be no screwups. Hear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye had the grace to look abashed. But Goblin was ready to argue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Keep it up," I said. "I'll have Tracker thrash you and tie you up. We aren't playing games."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Life is a game, Croaker," One-Eye said. "You take it too damned serious." But he behaved himself, both that night and the next day when we entered Oar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found a place well outside areas we frequented before. It catered to small-time traders and travelers. We drew no especial attention. Tracker and I kept a watch on Goblin and One-Eye. They did not seem inclined to play the fool again, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next day I went looking for a smith named Sand. Tracker accompanied me. Goblin and One-Eye stayed behind, constrained by the most terrible threats I could invent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sand's place was easily found. He was a longtime member of his trade, well-known among his peers. We followed directions. They led me through familiar streets. Here the Company had had some adventures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I discussed them with Tracker as we walked. I noted, "Been a lot of rebuilding since then. We tore the place up good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog was on point, as often he was of late. He stopped suddenly, looked around suspiciously, took a few tentative steps, sank onto his belly. "Trouble," Tracker said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind?" There was nothing obvious to the eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. He can't talk. He's just doing his watch-out-for-trouble act."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay. Don't cost anything to be careful." We turned into a place that sold and repaired harness and tack. Tracker yakked about needing a saddle for a hunter of large beasts. I stood in the doorway watching the street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw nothing unusual. The normal run of people went about their normal business. But after a while I noted that Sand's smithy had no custom. That no smithery sounds came forth. He was supposed to supervise a platoon of apprentices and journeymen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey. Proprietor. Whatever happened to the smith over there? Last time we were here he did us some work. Place looks empty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grey boys is what happened." He looked uncomfortable. Grey boys are imperials. The troops in the north wear grey. "Fool didn't learn back when. Was into the Rebellion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too bad. He was a good smith. What leads regular folks to get into politics, anyway? People like us, we got trouble enough just trying to make a living."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard that, brother." The tackmaker shook his head. "Tell you this. You got smithery needs doing, take your custom elsewhere. The grey boys been hanging around, taking anybody who comes around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">About then an imperial strolled around the side of the smithy and crossed to a pasty stall. "Damned clumsy," I said. "And crude."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tackmaker looked at me askance. Tracker covered well, drawing him back to business. Not as dumb as he appeared, I noted. Maybe just not socially adept.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Later, after Tracker expressed a desire to think on the deal the tackmaker offered and we departed, Tracker asked, "What now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We could bring up Goblin and One-Eye after dark, use their sleeping spell, go in and see what's to see. But it don't seem likely the imperials would leave anything interesting. We could find out what they did with Sand and try to reach him. Or we could go on to the Barrowland."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounds the safest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On the other hand, we wouldn't know what we were headed into. Sand's being taken could mean anything. We better talk it over with the others. Catalog our resources."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker grunted. "How long before that sutler gets suspicious? The more he thinks about it, the more he's going to realize we were interested in the smith."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. I'm not going to sweat it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oar is a city like most of substantial size. Crowded, Filled with distractions. I understood how Goblin and One-Eye had been seduced by Roses. The last major city the Company dared visit was Chimney. Six years ago. Since then it has been all the hard times and small towns you can imagine. I battled temptations of my own. I knew places of interest in Oar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker kept me on the straight line. I've never met a man less interested in the traps which tempt men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin thought we should put the imperials to sleep, give them the question. One-Eye wanted to get out of town. Their solidarity had perished like frost in the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Logically," I said, "they would get a stronger guard after dark. But if we drag you down there now, somebody is sure to recognize you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then find that old boy who brought the first letter," Goblin said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea. But. Think about it. Assuming he had perfect luck, he'd still be a long way from here. He didn't catch a ride like we did. No go. We get out. Oar is making me nervous." Too many temptations, too many chances to be recognized. And just too many people. Isolation had grown on me out there on the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin wanted to argue. He had heard the north roads were terrible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," I countered. "I also know the army is building a new route to the Barrowland. And they've pushed its north end far enough so traders are using it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No more argument. They wanted out as much as I. Only Tracker now seemed reluctant. He who first thought it best to go.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_29" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36402162" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36402164" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Eight:
TO THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Oar's weather was less than exciting. Farther north it became misery curdled, though the imperial engineers had done their best to make the forest road usable. Much of it was corduroy, of logs trimmed and tarred and laid side by side. In areas where snow became obnoxious, there were frameworks to support canvas coverings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazing scope." One-Eye said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm." There was supposed to be zero concern about the Dominator since the Lady's triumph at Juniper. This seemed a lot of effort to keep a road open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new road swung many miles west of the old because the Great Tragic River had shifted its bed and continued doing so. The trip from Oar to the Barrowland was fifteen miles longer. The last forty-five were not wholly finished. We endured some rough going.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We encountered the occasional trader headed south. They all shook their heads and told us we were wasting our time. The fortunes to be had had evaporated. The tribes had hunted the furbearers to extinction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker had been preoccupied since we left Oar. I could not draw out why. Maybe superstition. The Barrowland remains a great dread to Forsberg's lower classes. The Dominator is the bogeyman mothers conjure to frighten children. Though he has been gone four hundred years, his stamp remains indelible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took a week to cover the final forty-five miles. I was growing time-concerned. We might not get done and home before winter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were scarcely out of the forest, into the clearing at the Barrowland. I stopped. "It's changed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye crept up behind me. "Yuck," Goblin squeaked. "It sure has."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed almost abandoned. A swamp now, with only the highest points of the Barrowland proper still identifiable. When last we visited, a horde of imperials was clearing, repairing, studying with a relentless clatter and bustle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Near silence reigned. That bothered me more than the decayed state of the Barrowland. Slow, steady drizzle under deep grey skies. Cold. And no sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The corduroy was completed here. We rolled forward. Not till we entered the town, buildings now for the most part paintless and dilapidated, did we see a soul. A voice called, "Halt and state your business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped. "Where are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog, more than normally ambitious, loped to a derelict structure and sniffed. A grumbling Guard stepped into the drizzle. "Here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. You startled me. Name is Candle. Of Candle, Smith, Smith, Tailor, and Sons. Traders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? These others?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smith and Tailor inside here. That's Tracker. He works for us. We're from Roses. We heard the road north was open again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now you know better." He chuckled. I learned that he was in a good humor because of the weather. It was a nice day for the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the procedure?" I asked. "Where do we put up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blue Willy is the only place. They'll be glad for the custom. Get yourself settled. Report to headquarters by tomorrow." -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. Where is the Blue Willy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He told me. I snapped the traces. The wagon rolled. "Seem pretty lax," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are you going to run?" One-Eye countered. "They know we're here. There's only one way out. We don't play by their book, they stick the stopper in the bottle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The place did have that feel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It also had a feel that went with its weather. Down. Depressing. Smiles were scarce, and those mostly commercial.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hostler at Blue Willy didn't ask names, just payment up front. Other traders ignored us, though the fur trade, traditionally, is an Oar monopoly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next day a few locals came around to examine our goods. I had loaded up with what I had heard would sell well, but we got few nibbles. Only the liquor drew any offers. I asked how to get in touch with the tribes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You wait. They come when they come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That done, I went to Guard headquarters. It was unchanged, though the surrounding compound seemed seedier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first man I encountered was one I remembered. He was the one with whom I had to do business. "Candle's the name," I said. "Of Candle, Smith, Smith, Tailor, and Sons, out of Roses. Traders. I was told to report here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me oddly, like something way back was nagging him. He remembered something. I did not want him worrying it like a cavity in a tooth. He might come up with an answer. "Been some changes since I was here in the army."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Going to the dogs," he grumbled. "The dogs. Worse every day. You think anybody cares? We're going to rot out here. How many in your party?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four. And one dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wrong move. He scowled. No sense of humor. "Names?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Candle. One Smith. Tailor. Tracker. He works for us. And Toadkiller Dog. Got to call him by his whole name or he gets upset."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny man, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey. No offense. But this place needs some sunshine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Can you read?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rules are posted over there. You got two choices. Obey them. Or be dead. Case!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A soldier came from a back office. "Yeah, Sarge?" "New trader. Go check him out. You at Blue Willy, Candle?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." The list of rules had not changed. It was the same paper, almost too faded to read. Basically, it said don't mess with the Barrowland. Try it and if it don't kill you, we will. "Sir?" the trooper said. "When you're ready?" "I'm ready."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We returned to Blue Willy. The soldier looked our gear over. The only things that intrigued him were my bow and the fact that we were well armed. "Why so many weapons?" "Been talk about trouble with the tribesmen." "Must have gotten exaggerated. Just stealing." Goblin and One-Eye attracted no special attention. I was pleased. "You read the rules. Stick to them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know them of old," I said. "I was stationed here when I was in the army."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me a bit narrowly, nodded, departed. We all sighed. Goblin took the spell of concealment off the gear he and One-Eye had brought. The empty corner behind Tracker filled with clutter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He might come right back," I protested. "We don't want to hold any spell any longer than we have to," One-Eye said. "There might be somebody around who could detect it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." I cracked the shutters to our one window. The hinges shrieked. "Grease," I suggested. I looked across the town. We were on the third floor of the tallest building outside the Guard compound. I could see the Bomanz house. "Guys. Look at this." They looked. "In damned fine shape, eh?" When last seen it was a candidate for demolition. Superstitious fear had kept it unused. I recalled pottering around in there several times. "Feel like a stroll, Tracker?"•</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever makes you comfortable"-I wondered if he had enemies here-"I'd feel better if you were along."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He strapped on his sword. Out we went, down, into the street-if that expanse of mud could be so called. The corduroy ran only to the compound, with a branch as far as Blue Willy. Beyond, there were walkways only.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We pretended to sightsee. I told Tracker stories about my last visit, most cast near the truth. I was trying to assume a foreign persona, voluble and jolly. I wondered if I was wasting my time. I saw no one interested in what I might say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Bomanz house had been lovingly restored. It did not appear to be occupied, though. Or guarded. Or set up as a monument. Curious. Come supper I asked our host. He had me pegged as a nostalgic fool already. He told us, "Some old boy moved in there about five years ago. Cripple. Did scut work for the Guard. Fixed the place up in his spare time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened to him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"While back, couple four months I guess, he had a stroke or something. They found him still alive but like a vegetable. They took him over to the compound. Far as I know, he's still there. Feeding him like a baby. That kid that was here to inspect you is the one to ask. Him and Corbie was friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Corbie, eh? Thanks. Another pitcher."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Croaker," One-Eye said in a low voice. "Lay off the beer. The guy makes it himself. It's terrible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was right. But I was getting adjusted for some heavy thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had to get into that house. That meant night moves and wizards' skills. It also meant our greatest risks since Goblin and One-Eye went silly in Roses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye asked Goblin, "Think we're up against a haunt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin sucked his lip. "Have to look."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's this?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd have to see the man to know for sure, Croaker, but what happened to that Corbie don't sound like a stroke."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin nodded. "Sounds like somebody pulled out of body and caught."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we can arrange to see him. What about the house?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"First thing is to make sure there isn't a big-time haunt. Like maybe Bomanz's ghost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That kind of talk makes me nervous. I do not believe in ghosts. Or do not want to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he was caught out, or pulled out, you have to wonder how and why. The fact that that's where Bomanz lived has to be considered. Something left over from his time could have gotten this Corbie. Could be what gets us if we're not careful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Complications," I grumbled. "Always the complications."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin snickered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You watch yourself," I said. "Or I just might sell you to the highest bidder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An hour later a savage storm arrived. It howled and hammered at the inn. The roof leaked under the downpour. When I reported that, our host blew up, though not at me. Evidently making repairs was not easy under current conditions, yet repairs had to be made lest a place deteriorate entirely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The damned winter firewood is the worst," he complained. "Can't leave it set out. Either gets buried under snow or so damned waterlogged you can't dry it out. In a month this place will be loaded ceiling to floor. At least filling the place up makes it less hard to heat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Along about midnight, after the Guard had changed watches and the oncoming had had time to grow bored and sleepy, we slipped out. Goblin made sure everyone inside the inn was asleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog trotted ahead, seeking witnesses. He found only one. Goblin took care of him, too. On a night like that nobody was out. I wished I was not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Make sure nobody can see any light," I said after we slipped inside. "At a guess, I'd say we start upstairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At a guess," One-Eye countered, "I'd say we find out if there are any haunts or booby traps first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at the door. I hadn't thought about that before pushing through.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_30" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36402510" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36402512" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Nine:
THE BARROWLAND, BACK WHEN <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel summoned Case. He shook as he stood before Sweet's desk. "There are questions to be answered, lad," Sweet said. "Start by telling me what you know about Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case swallowed. "Yes, sir." He told. And told much more when Sweet insisted on rehashing every word that had passed between them. He told everything but the part about the message and the oilskin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Curious," Sweet said. "Very. Is that all?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case shifted nervously. "What's this about, sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's say what we found in the oilskin was interesting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It appeared to be a long letter, though no one could read it. It was in a language nobody knows. It could be the language of the Jewel Cities. What I want to know is, who was supposed to get it? Was it unique or part of a series? Our friend is in trouble, lad. If he recovers, he's in hot water. Deep. Real bums don't write long letters to anybody."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, sir, like I said, he was trying to track down his kids. And he may have come from Opal…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. There is circumstantial evidence on his side. Maybe he can satisfy me when he comes around. On the other hand, this being the Barrowland, anything remarkable becomes suspicious. Question, son. And you must answer satisfactorily or you're in hot water, too. Why did you try to hide the packet?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crux. The moment from which there was no escape. He had prayed it would not arrive. Now, facing it, Case knew his loyalty to Corbie was unequal to the test.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He asked me if, if anything happened to him, I would get a letter delivered to Oar. A letter in oilskin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He did expect trouble, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I don't know what was in the letter or why he wanted it delivered. He just gave me a name. And then he said to tell you something after the letter was delivered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't remember his exact words. He said to tell you the thing in the Great Barrow isn't asleep anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet came out of his seat as though stung. "He did? And how did he know? Never mind. The name. Now! Who was the packet to go to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A smith in Oar. Named Sand. That's all I know, sir. I swear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." Sweet seemed distracted. "Back to your duties, lad. Tell Major Klief I want him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next morning Case watched Major Klief and a detail ride out, under orders to arrest Sand Smith. He felt terribly guilty. And yet, just how had he betrayed anyone? He might have been betrayed himself if Corbie was a spy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He assuaged his guilt by tending Corbie with religious devotion, keeping him clean and fed.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_31" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36402611" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36402613" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty:
A BARROWLAND NIGHT <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It took Goblin and One-Eye only minutes to examine the house. "No traps," One-Eye announced. "No ghost, either. Some old resonances of sorcery overlaid by more recent ones. Upstairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I produced a scrap of paper. Upon it were my notes from the Bomanz letters. We went upstairs. Confident though they were, Goblin and One-Eye let me go first. Some friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I checked to make certain the window was shuttered before permitting a light. Then: "Do your stuff. I'll poke around." Tracker and Toadkiller Dog remained in the doorway. It was not a big room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I examined book titles before starting a serious search. The man had had eclectic tastes. Or had collected what was cheapest, perhaps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found no papers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The place did not look ransacked. "One-Eye. Can you tell if this place was searched?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably not. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The papers aren't here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You looked where he hid stuff? Like he said?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All but one." A spear stood in a corner. Sure enough, when I twisted it, its head came off and revealed a hollow shaft. Out came the map mentioned in the story. We spread it on the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chills crept up my back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was real history. This chart had shaped today's world. Despite my limited grasp of TelleKurre and my even more feeble knowledge of wizardly symbols, I felt the power mapped there. For me, at least, it radiated something that left me teetering on the boundary between discomfort and true dread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye did not feel it. Or were too intrigued. They put their heads together and examined the route Bomanz used to reach the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thirty-seven years of work," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It took him thirty-seven years to accumulate that information." I noticed something. "What's this?" It was something that should not have been there, as I recalled the story. "I see. Our correspondent added notes of his own."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye looked at me. Then he looked at the chart. Then he looked at me again. Then he bent to examine the route on the map. "That has to be it. No other answer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know what happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker stirred uncomfortably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He tried to go in there. The only way you can. And couldn't get out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had written me saying there was something he had to do, that the risks were great. Was One-Eye right?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Brave man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No papers. Unless they were hidden better than I thought. I would have Goblin and One-Eye search. I made them reroll the chart and return it to the spear shaft, then said, "I'm open to suggestions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About what?" Goblin squeaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About how to get this guy away from the Eternal Guard. And how we get his soul back inside him so we can ask him questions. Like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They did not look enthused. One-Eye said, "Somebody will have to go in there to see what's wrong. Then spring him and guide him out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see." Too well. We had to lay hands on the living body before doing that. "Look this place over. See what you can find that's hidden."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took them half an hour. I became a nervous wreck. "Too much time, too much time," I kept saying. They ignored me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The search produced one scrap of paper, very old, which contained a cipher key. It was folded into one of the books, not really hidden. I tucked it away. It might be used on the papers back at the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We got out. We got back to Blue Willy with'out being detected. We all heaved sighs of relief once we reached our room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What now?" Goblin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sleep on it. Tomorrow is soon enough to start worrying." I was wrong, of course. I was worrying already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With each step forward it became more complicated.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_32" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36402765" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36402767" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-One:
NIGHT IN THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The thunder and lightning continued to strut about. The sound and flash penetrated the walls as though they were paper. I slept restlessly, my nerves frazzled more than they should be. The others were dead to the world. Why couldn't I be?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It started as a pinprick in a corner, a mote of golden light. The mote multiplied. I wanted to lunge across and hammer on Goblin or One-Eye, calling them liars. The amulet was supposed to keep me invisible…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Faintest, most ghostly of whispers, like the cry of a ghost down a long, cold cavern. "Physician. Where are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not respond. I wanted to pull my blanket over my head, but could not move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She remained diffuse, wavering, uncertain. Maybe she did have trouble spotting me. When her face did assume substance momentarily, she did not look my way. Her eyes seemed blind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have gone from the Plain of Fear," she called in that faraway voice. "You are in the north somewhere. You left a broad trail. You are foolish, my friend. I will find you. Don't you know that? You cannot hide. Even an emptiness can be seen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had no idea where I was. I did the right thing by not responding. She wanted me to betray myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My patience is not unlimited, Croaker. But you may come to the Tower still. Make it soon, though. Your White Rose does not have long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally managed to pull my blanket to my chin. What a sight I must have made. Amusing, in retrospect. Like a little boy afraid of ghosts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glow slowly faded. With it went the nervousness that had plagued me since returning from the Bomanz house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As I settled down I glanced at Toadkiller Dog. I caught lightning glinting off a single open eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So. For the first time there was a witness to one of the visitations. But a mutt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't think anybody believed me about them, ever, except that what I reported always panned out true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slept.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin wakened me. "Breakfast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We ate. We made a show of looking for markets for our goods, of seeking a longer term connection for future loads. Business was not good, except our host offered to purchase distilled spirits regularly. There was a demand among the Eternal Guard. The soldiers had little to do but drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lunch. And while we ate and prepared our thoughts for the head-butting session to follow, soldiers entered the inn. They asked the landlord if any of his guests had been out last night. Good old landlord denied the possibility. He claimed he was the lightest of sleepers. He knew if anyone came or went.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was good enough for the soldiers. They left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was that?" I asked when next the proprietor passed our way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Somebody broke into Corbie's house last night," he said. Then his eyes narrowed. He remembered other questions. My mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Curious," I said. "Why would anyone do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Why?" He went about his business, but remained thoughtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I, too, was thoughtful. How had they detected our visit? We were careful to leave no traces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye were disturbed, too. Only Tracker did not seem bothered. His lone discomfort was being there, near the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What can we do?" I asked. "We're surrounded and outnumbered, and maybe now we're suspect. How do we lay hands on this Corbie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's no problem," One-Eye said. "The real trouble is getting away after we do. If we could call in a windwhale just in time…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me how it's not so hard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The middle of the night we go over to the Guard compound, use the sleep spell, get our man and his papers, call his spirit back, and get him out. But then what? Eh, Croaker? Then what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where do we run?" I mused. "And how?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There is one answer," Tracker said. "The forest. The Guard couldn't find us in the forest. If we could cross the Great Tragic, we'd be safe. They don't have the manpower for a hunt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nibbled the edge of a fingernail. Something to what Tracker said. I assumed he knew the woodlands and tribes well enough for us to survive with the burden of an injured man. But jumping past that only led to other problems.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were still a thousand miles to cross to reach the Plain of Fear. With the empire alert. "Wait here," I told everybody, and left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hurried to the imperial compound, entered the office I had visited before, shook myself dry, examined a map on the wall. The kid who had checked us for contraband came over. "Help you somehow?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so. Just wanted to check the map. It pretty accurate?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not anymore. The river has shifted more than a mile this way. And most of the flood plain isn't covered with woods anymore. All washed away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm." I laid fingers on, making estimates.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want to know that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Business," I lied. "Heard we might be able to contact one of the bigger tribes around a place called Eagle Rocks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's forty-five miles. You wouldn't make it. They'd kill you and take what you had. The only reason they don't bother the Guard and the road is that those have the Lady's protection. If this coming winter is as bad as the last few, that won't stop them, either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uhm. Well, it was an idea. You the one called Case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." His eyes narrowed suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Heard you been taking care of some guy…" I let it drop. His reaction was not what I expected. "Well, that's what they're saying around town. Thanks for the advice." I got out. But I feared I had goofed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I soon knew I had goofed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A squad commanded by a major showed up at the inn only minutes after my return. They had the bunch of us under arrest before we knew what was happening. Goblin and One-Eye barely had time to cast spells of concealment on their gear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We played ignorant. We cursed and grumbled and whined. It did us no good. Our captors knew less about why we were being grabbed than we did. Just following orders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The landlord had a look which made me certain he had reported us as suspicious. I expect Case said something about my visit that tipped a balance somewhere. Whatever, we were on our way to cells.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten minutes after the door clanged shut, the very commander of the Eternal Guard turned up. I sighed in relief. He hadn't been here before. At least he was no one we knew. He shouldn't know us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had had time to rehearse using the deaf speech. All but Tracker. But Tracker seemed lost within himself. They had not allowed his mutt to accompany him. He had been angry about that. Scared the crap out of the guys who arrested us. For a minute they thought they would have to fight him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The commander studied us, then introduced himself. "I'm Colonel Sweet. I command the Eternal Guard." Case hovered behind him, anxious. "I asked you men here because aspects of your behavior have been unusual."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have we unwittingly broken a rule not publicly posted?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not at all. Not at all. The matter is entirely circumstantial. What you might call a question of undeclared intent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've lost me, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He began pacing up and down the passageway outside our cell. Up and down. "There is the old saw about actions speaking louder than words. I've had reports on you from several sources. About your excessive curiosity about matters not connected with your business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did my best to appear baffled. "What's unusual about asking questions in new country? My associates haven't been here before. It's been years since I was. Things have changed. Anyway, this is one of the most interesting places in the empire."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Also one of the most dangerous, trader. Candle, is it? Mr. Candle, you were stationed here in service. What unit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That I could answer without hesitation. "Drake Crest. Colonel Lot. Second Battalion." I was here, after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. The Roses mercenary brigade. What was the Colonel's favorite drink?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, boy. "I was a pikeman, Colonel. I didn't drink with the brigadier."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." He paced. I could not tell if that answer worked or not. Drake Crest hadn't been a flashy, storied outfit like the Black Company. Who the hell would remember anything about them? After a time. "You must understand my position. With that thing buried out there paranoia becomes an occupational hazard." He pointed in the direction the Great Barrow must lie. Then he stalked off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell was all that?" Goblin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. And I'm not sure I want to find out. Somehow, we got ourselves into big trouble." That for the benefit of eavesdroppers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin accepted his cue. "Damnit, Candle, I told you we shouldn't come up here. I told you the Oar people would have an arrangement with the Guard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye jumped in then. They really ragged me. Meantime, we talked it over with the finger speech, decided to wait the Colonel out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not much choice anyway, without tipping our hands.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_33" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36403197" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36403199" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Two:
IMPRISONED IN THE BARROWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was bad. Far worse than we suspected. Those Guard guys were paranoid plus. I mean, they didn't have an inkling who we were. But they did not let that slow them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half a platoon showed up suddenly. Rattle and clang at the door. No talk. Grim faces. We had trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think they're going to turn us loose," Goblin said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Out," a sergeant told us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We went out. All but Tracker. Tracker just sat there. I tried a funny. "He misses his dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the Guards punched Tracker's arm. Tracker took a long time turning, looking at the man, his face an emotional blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You shouldn't ought to have done that." I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," the sergeant snapped. "Get him moving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man who had punched Tracker went to hit him again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It might have been a love tap in slowed motion. Tracker reached around the moving fist, caught the advancing wrist, broke it. The Guardsman shrieked. Tracker tossed him aside. His face remained a blank. His gaze followed the man belatedly. He seemed to begin wondering what was happening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other Guards gaped. Then a couple jumped in with bared weapons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey! Take it easy!" I yelled. "Tracker…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still in that sort of mental nowhere, Tracker took their weapons away, tossed them into a comer, and beat the crap out of both men. The sergeant was torn between awe and outrage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to mollify him. "He's not very bright. You can't come at him like that. You have to explain things slow like, two or three times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll explain!" He started to send the rest of his men into the cell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You get him mad, you're going to get somebody killed." I talked fast, and wondered what the hell it was with Tracker and his damned pooch. That mutt went away, Tracker became a moron. With homicidal tendencies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sergeant let sense override anger. "You get him under control."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I worked on it. I knew the immediate future boded no good from the attitude of the soldiers, but was not overly worried. Goblin and One-Eye could handle whatever trouble developed. The thing to do now was keep our heads and lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to tend the three injured soldiers, but dared not. Just looking at One-Eye and Goblin would give clues enough for the other side to figure out, eventually, who we were. No sense giving them more. I concentrated on Tracker. Once I got him to focus on me it was no great task to get through, to calm him down, to explain that we were going somewhere with the soldiers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, "They shouldn't ought to do me like that, Croaker." He sounded like a child whose feelings had been hurt. I grimaced. But the Guards did not react to the name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They surrounded us, all with hands upon weapons, except those trying to get their injured companions to the horse doctor who served as the Guard's physician. Some of them were itching to get even. I worked hard to keep Tracker calm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The place they took us did not encourage me. It was a sodden cellar beneath the headquarters. It looked like a caricature of a torture chamber. I suspect it was meant to intimidate. Having seen real torture and real torture implements, I recognized half the equipment as prop or unusually antiquated. But there were some serviceable implements, too. I exchanged glances with Goblin and One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker said, "I don't like it here. I want to go outside. I want to see Toadkiller Dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stand easy. We'll be out in a little while."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin grinned his famous grin, though it was a little lopsided. Yes. We would be out soon. Maybe feet first, but out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colonel Sweet was there. He did not seem pleased by our reaction to his stage. He said, "I want to talk to you men. You didn't seem eager to chat earlier. Are these surroundings more amenable?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly. They make one wonder, though. Is this the penalty for stepping on the heels of the gentlemen traders of Oar? I didn't realize they had the blessing of the Guard in their monopoly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Games. No games, Mr. Candle. Straight answers. Now. Or my men will make your next few hours extremely unpleasant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ask. But I have a bad feeling I don't have the answers you want to hear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then that will be your misfortune."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Goblin. He had gone into a sort of trance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel said, "I do not believe you when you say you're just traders. The pattern of your questions indicate an inordinate interest in a man named Corbie and his house. Corbie, let it be noted, is suspected of being either a Rebel agent or Resurrectionist. Tell me about him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did, almost completely, and truthfully: "I never heard of him before we got here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think he believed me. But he shook his head slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see. You won't believe me even when you know I'm telling the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But how much are you telling? That is the question. The White Rose compartments its organization. You could have had no idea who Corbie was and still have come looking for him. Has he been out of touch for a while?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This sucker was sharp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My face must have been too studiedly blank. He nodded to himself, scanned the four of us, zeroed in on One-Eye. "The black man. Pretty old, isn't he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was surprised he did not make more of One-Eye's skin color. Black men are extremely rare north of the Sea of Torments. Chances are the Colonel had not seen one before. That a black man, very old, is one of the cornerstones of the Black Company is not exactly a secret.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll start with him. He looks least likely to stand up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker asked, "You want me to kill them. Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want you to keep your mouth shut and stand still, that's what I want." Damn. But Sweet missed the name. Either that or I was less famous than I thought and overdue for ego deflation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet did seem amazed that Tracker was so confident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take him to the rack." He indicated One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye chuckled and extended his hands to the men who approached him. Goblin snickered. Their amusement disturbed everyone. Me not least, for I knew their senses of humor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet looked me in the eye. "They find this amusing? Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't indulge a sudden whim of civilized behavior, you're going to find out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was tempted to back down, but decided we were running some colossal bluff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They took One-Eye to the rack. He grinned and climbed up himself. Goblin squeaked, "I been waiting to see you on one of those things for thirty years. Damned my luck if somebody else doesn't get to turn the crank when the chance finally comes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll see who turns that crank on who, horse apple," One-Eye replied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They bantered back and forth. Tracker and I stood like posts. The imperials became ever more disturbed. Sweet, obviously, wondered if he shouldn't take One-Eye down and work on me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They strapped One-Eye down. Goblin cackled, danced a little jig. "Stretch him till he's ten feet tall, guys," he said. "You'll still have a mental midget."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somebody swung a backhand Goblin's way. He leaned only slightly. When the man pulled his hand back, having missed entirely and been only lightly brushed by a warding hand, he looked at his own paw in astonishment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten thousand pinpricks of blood had appeared. They formed a pattern. Almost a tattoo. And that tattoo showed two serpents intertwined, each with its fangs buried in the other's neck. If necks are what snakes have behind their heads.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A distraction. I recognized it, of course. After the first moment, I concentrated on One-Eye. He just grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men who were to stretch him turned back after a moment, whipped by their Colonel's snarl. Sweet was damned uncomfortable now. He had a suspicion he faced something extraordinary, but he refused to be intimidated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the torturers stepped up to One-Eye his naked belly heaved. And a big, nasty spider crawled out of his navel. It came out in a ball, dragging itself with two legs, then unwrapped the others from around a body half the size of my thumb. It stepped aside and another crawled forth. The first ambled down One-Eye's leg, toward the man who held the crank to which One-Eye's ankles were strapped. The fellow's eyes just kept getting bigger. He turned to his commanding officer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Absolute silence filled the cellar. I don't think the imperials even remembered to breathe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another spider crawled out of One-Eye's heaving belly. And another. And he seemed diminished just a bit more each time. His faced changed, slowly shifting toward what a spider's face looks like if you look real close. Most people do not have the nerve.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin giggled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Turn the crank!" Sweet roared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man at One-Eye's feet tried. The first spider scuttled up the lever onto his hand. He shrieked, flung his hand around, hurled the arachnid into the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Colonel," I said in as businesslike a voice as I could muster, "this has gone far enough. Let's not get someone hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a whole mob of them and four of us and Sweet wanted badly to rely on that. But already several men were edging toward the exit. Most were edging away from us. Everyone stared at Sweet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damned Goblin. Had to let his enthusiasm get away. He squeaked, "Hold on, Croaker. This is a once-in-a-lifetime chance. Let them stretch One-Eye a little."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw the light dawn behind Sweet's eyes, though he tried to conceal it. "Damn you, Goblin. Now you've done it. We're going to have a talk after this is over. Colonel. What will it be? I have the edge here. As you now know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He elected for the better part of valor. "Release him," he told the man nearest One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were spiders all over One-Eye. He had them popping out of his mouth and ears now. Getting enthusiastic, he had them turning up as gaudy as you can imagine, hunters, web-spinners, jumpers. All big and revolting. Sweet's men refused to go near him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told Tracker, "Go stand in the doorway. Don't let anybody out." He had no trouble understanding that. I released One-Eye. I had to keep reminding myself the arachnids were illusions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some illusions. I felt the little creepies… Belatedly, I realized One-Eye's legions were marching on Goblin. "Damn it, One-Eye! Grow up!" The son-of-a-bitch wasn't satisfied to bluff the imperials. He had to play games with Goblin, too. I wheeled on Goblin. "If you do one damned thing to get involved in this, I'll see you never leave the Hole again. Colonel Sweet. I can't say I've enjoyed your hospitality. If you and your men will come over here? We'll just be on our way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reluctantly, Sweet gestured. Half of his men refused to move toward the spiders. "One-Eye. Game time is over. It's get-out-alive time. Would you mind?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye gestured. His eight-legged troops rushed into the shadows behind the rack, where they vanished into that mad oblivion from which such things spring. One-Eye strutted over to stand by Tracker. He was cocky now. For weeks we would hear about how he had saved us. If we lived to get away tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shooed Goblin over, then joined them myself. I told Goblin and One-Eye, "I want no sound to escape this room. And I want that door sealed like it was part of the wall. Then I want to know where we find this character Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got it," One-Eye said. Eye twinkling, he added, "So long, Colonel. It was fun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweet forebore making threats. Sensible man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fixing the room took the wizards ten minutes, which I found inordinately long. I became mildly suspicious, but forgot that notion when they said they were done and that the man we wanted was in another building nearby.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I should have harkened to my suspicions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Five minutes later we stood in the doorway of the building where Corbie was supposed to be. We had encountered no difficulty getting there. "One second, Croaker," One-Eye said. He faced the building we had vacated, snapped his fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whole damned place fell in. ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You bastard," I whispered. "What did you do that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now there's nobody who knows who we are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whose fault was it they did know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Chopped off the head of the snake, too. Be so much confusion we could walk off with the Lady's jewelry if we wanted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" There would be those who knew we were brought in. They would wonder some if they saw us wandering around. "Tell me, O genius. Did you locate the documents I want before you tumbled the place down? Jf they're in there, you're the gent who's going to dig them out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face dropped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. I expected that. Because that is my kind of luck. And that is the way One-Eye is. He never thinks things through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll worry about Corbie first," I said. "Inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As we pushed through the door we encountered Case coming to investigate the uproar.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_34" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36403608" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36403610" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Three:
MISSING MAN <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hi, fellow," One-Eye said, punching a finger into the soldier's chest, pushing him back."Yeah. It's your old pals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind me, Tracker stared across the compound. The collapse of the headquarters building was complete. Fire snapped and crackled inside. Toadkiller Dog loped around the end of the ruin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at that." I punched Goblin's arm. "He's running." I faced Case. "Show us your friend Corbie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did not want to do that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't want to argue. We're not in the mood. Move it or we walk over you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The compound had begun to fill with yammering soldiers. None noticed us. Toadkiller Dog loped up, sniffed Tracker's calves, made a sound deep in his throat. Tracker's face gleamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We pushed in behind Case. "To Corbie," I reminded him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He led us to a room where a single oil lamp illuminated a man on a bed, neatly blanketed. Case turned the lamp up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, holy shit," I murmured. I plopped my butt on the edge of the bed. "It ain't possible. One-Eye?" But One-Eye was in another universe. He just stood there with his mouth open. Like Goblin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, Goblin squeaked, "But he's dead. He died six years ago."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corbie was the Raven who played such a grand part in the Company past. The Raven who had set Darling on her present course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even I had been convinced he was dead, and I was by nature suspicious of Raven. He had tried the same stunt before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">. "Nine lives," One-Eye remarked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should have suspected when we heard the name Corbie," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a joke. His kind. Corbie. Crow. Rook. Raven. All pretty much the same thing. Right? He waved it under our noses."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seeing him there illuminated mysteries that had plagued me for years. Now I knew why papers I had salvaged would not come together. He had removed the key pieces before faking his last death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even Darling didn't know this time," I mused. The shock had begun to wear off. I found myself reflecting that on several occasions after the letters began arriving I had skirted the suspicion that he was alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A raft of questions rose. Darling not knowing. Why not? That did not seem like Raven. But more, why abandon her to our mercy, as he had, when for so long he had tried to keep her away?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was more here than met the eye. More than Raven just running off so he could poke into doings at the Barrowland. Unfortunately, I could question neither of my witnesses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long has he been this way?" One-Eye asked Case. The soldier's eyes were wide. He knew who we were now. Maybe my ego did not need deflating after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Months."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There was a letter," I said. "There were papers. What became of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Colonel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what did the Colonel do? Did he inform the Taken? Did he contact the Lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trooper was about to get stubborn. "You're in trouble here, kid. We don't want to hurt you. You did right by our friend. Speak up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He didn't. That I know of. He couldn't read any of that stuff. He was waiting for Corbie to wake up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He would have waited a long time," One-Eye said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give us some room, Croaker. First order of business is going to be finding Raven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There anyone else in this building this time of night?" I asked Case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not unless the bakers come in for flour. But it's stored in the cellars down to the other end. They wouldn't come around here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." I wondered how much his information could be trusted. "Tracker. You and Toadkiller Dog go stand lookout."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One problem," One-Eye said. "Before we do anything, we need Bomanz's map."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, boy." I slipped into the hallway, to the exit, peeped out. The headquarters building was afire, sputtering halfheartedly in the rain. Most of the Guard were fighting the fire. I shuddered. Our documents were in there. If the Lady's luck held, they would burn. I returned to the room. "One-Eye, you have a more immediate problem. My documents. You better get after them. I'll try for the chart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tracker, you watch the door here. Keep the kid in and everybody else out. All right?" He nodded. He needed no special coaching while Toadkiller Dog was around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped out, into the confusion. No one paid me any heed. I wondered if this was not the time to take Raven out. I exited the compound unchallenged, dashed through the drizzle to Blue Willy. The proprietor seemed astounded to see me. I did not pause to tell him what I thought of his hospitality, just went upstairs, groped around inside the concealment spell till I found the spear with the hollow shaft. Back down. One vituperous look for the landlord, then into the rain again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By the time I returned, the fire was under control. Soldiers had begun to pull the rubble apart. Still no one challenged me. I slipped into the building where Raven lay, handed One-Eye the spear. "You do anything about those papers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn it…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're in a box in the Colonel's office, Croaker. What the hell do you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Tracker. Take the kid into the hallway. You guys. I want a spell where he has to do what he's told whether he wants to or not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" One-Eye asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to send him after those papers. Can you fix it so he's got to do it and come back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case was in the doorway, listening bleakly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. No problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do it. Son, you understand? One-Eye will put a spell on you. You go help clean up that mess till you can get the box. Bring it back and we'll take the spell off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked like getting stubborn again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have a choice, of course. You can die an unpleasant death instead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think he believes you, Croaker. I'd better give him a taste."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case's expression told me he did believe. The more he thought about who we were, the more terrified he became.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How had we developed such a fierce reputation? I guess stories grow in the retelling. "I think he'll cooperate. Right, son?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, stubbornness dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked like a good kid. Too bad he had given his loyalty to the other side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do it, One-Eye. Let's get on with this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While One-Eye worked, Goblin asked, "What do we do after we finish here, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hell, I don't know. Play it by ear. Right now don't worry about the mules, just load the wagon. Step at a time.. Step at a time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ready," One-Eye said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I beckoned the youth, opened the outside door. "Get out there and do it, kid." I patted his behind. He went, but with a look that could have curdled milk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's not happy with you. Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Screw it. Get in there with Raven. Do what you have to do. Time is wasting. Come daylight this place will see some life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched Case. Tracker guarded the door to the room. No one interrupted us. Case eventually found what I wanted, slipped away from the work detail. "Good job, son," I told him, taking the box. "In the room with your friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We entered moments before One-Eye came out of a trance. "Well?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a moment to orient himself. "Going to be harder than I thought. But I think we can bring him out." He indicated the chart Goblin had spread atop Raven's stomach. "He's about here, caught, just inside the inner circle." He shook his head. "You ever hear him tell about having any background in the trade?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. But there were times I wondered. Like in Roses, when he tracked Raker through a snowstorm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He learned something somewhere. Weren't no parlor trick, what he did. But it was too big for his skills." For a moment he was thoughtful. "It's weird in there. Croaker. Really weird. He isn't alone by a long shot. Won't be able to give you any details till we go in ourselves but…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Wait. Go in yourselves? What're you talking about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Figured you understood Goblin and I would have to follow him in. In order to bring him out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why both of you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One to cover in case the point man gets in trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin nodded. They were all business now. Meaning they were scared crapless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long is all this going to take?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No telling. Quite a while. We ought to get out of here first. Out in the woods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to argue but did not. Instead, I went and checked the compound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had begun bringing the bodies out of the rubble. I watched a while, got an idea. Five minutes later Case and I stepped out carrying a litter. A blanket covered what appeared to be a large broken body. Goblin's face lay exposed. He did a great corpse. One-Eye's feet stuck out the other end. Tracker carried Raven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The documents were under the blanket with Goblin and One-Eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not expect to pull it off. But the grim business around the collapsed building preoccupied the Guard. They had reached the cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did get challenged at the compound gate. Goblin used his sleep spell. I doubted we would be remembered. Civilians were all over, helping and hindering the rescue effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was the bad news. A few down in that cellar were still alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Goblin, you and One-Eye get our gear. Take the kid. Tracker and I will get the wagon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All went well. Too well, I thought, being naturally pessimistic after the way things had been going. We put Raven in the wagon and headed south.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moment we entered the forest One-Eye said, "So we've made our getaway. Now. About Raven?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was without a single idea. "You call it. How close do you have to be?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very." He saw I was thinking about getting out of the country first. "Darling?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The reminder was unnecessary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I won't say Raven was the center of her life. She will not discuss him except in the most general way. But there are nights she cries herself to sleep, remembering something. If it is for loss of Raven, we could not bring him home like this. It would break her heart all the way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, we needed him now. He knew better than we what the hell was going on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I appealed to Tracker for suggestions. He had none. He did not, in fact, appear pleased with what we planned. Like he expected Raven to become competition, or something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got him," One-Eye said, indicating Case, whom we had dragged along rather than leave dead. "Let's use him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Good idea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twenty minutes later we had the wagon well off the road, up on rocks so it would not sink into the soggy earth. One-Eye and Goblin wound spells of concealment around it and camouflaged it with brush. We piled gear into packs, placed Raven on the litter. Case and I carried him. Tracker and Toadkiller Dog led us through the woods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It could not have been more than three miles, yet I ached everywhere before we finished. Too old. Too out of shape. And the weather was one-hundred-ninety-proof misery. I had had enough rain to last me the rest of my life. Tracker led us to a place just east of the Barrowland. I could walk downhill a hundred yards and see its remnants. I could walk a hundred yards the other way and see the Great Tragic. Only the one narrow stretch of high ground barred it from reaching the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We got tents up and boughs inside so we did not have to sit on wet earth. Goblin and One-Eye took the smaller tent. The rest of us crowded into the other. Once reasonably free of the rain, I settled down to probe the rescued documents. First to catch my eye was an oilskin packet. "Case. This the letter Raven wanted you to deliver?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded sullenly. He was not talking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Poor boy. He believed he was guilty of treason. I hoped he wouldn't get a case of the heroics.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, might as well keep busy while Goblin and One-Eye did their job. Start with the easy part first.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_35" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36404025" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36404027" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Four:
BOMANZ'S STORY <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Croaker:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz faced the Lady from another angle. He saw a ghost of fear touch her matchless features. "Ardath," he said, and saw her fear become resignation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ardath was my sister.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You had a twin. You murdered her and took her name. Your true name is Ardath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You will regret this. I will find your name…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you threaten me? I mean you no harm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You harm me by thwarting me. Free me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come, come. Don't be childish. Why force my hand? That will cost us both agony and energy. I only want to rediscover the knowledge interred with you. Teaching me will cost you nothing. It won't harm you. It might even prepare the world for your return."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The world prepares already. Bomanz!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He chuckled. "That's a mask, like the antiquarian. That's not my name. Ardath. Must we fight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wise men say to accept the inevitable with grace. If I must, I must. I will try to be gracious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When pigs fly, Bomanz thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady's smile was mocking. She sent something. He did not catch it. Other voices filled his mind. For an instant he thought the Dominator was awakening. But the voices were in his physical ears, back at the house. "Oh, damn!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wind-chimes mirth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Clete is in position." The voice was Tokar's. Its presence in the attic enraged Bomanz. He started running.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Help me get him out of the chair." Stancil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Won't you wake him up?" Glory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His spirit is out in the Barrowland. He won't know anything unless we run into each other out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wrong, Bomanz thought. Wrong, you insidious, ungrateful wart. Your old man isn't stupid. He responds to the signs even when he doesn't want to see them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dragon's head swung as he hurtled past. Mockery pursued him. The hatred of dead knights pounded him as he hurried on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get him into the corner. Toker, the amulet is under the hearthstone in the shack. That damned Men fu! He almost blew it. I want to get my hands on the fool who sent him up here. That greedy idiot wasn't interested in anything but himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At least he took the Monitor with him." Glory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pure accident. Pure luck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The time. The time," Tokar said. "Clete's men are hitting the barracks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get out of here, then. Glory, will you do something besides stare at the old man? I've got to get in there before Tokar reaches the Barrowland. The Great Ones have to be told what we're doing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz passed the barrow of Moondog. He felt the restlessness within. He raced on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A ghost danced beside him. A slump-shouldered, evil-faced ghost who damned him a thousand times. "I don't have time for it, Besand. But you were right." He crossed the old moat, passed his dig. Strangers dotted the landscape. Resurrectionist strangers. Where had they come from? Out of hiding in the Old Forest?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Faster. Got to go faster, he thought. That fool Stance is going to try to follow me in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran like nightmare, floating through subjectively eternal steps. The comet glared down. It felt strong enough to cast shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Read the instructions again to make sure," Stancil said. "Timing isn't critical as long as you don't do anything early."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shouldn't we tie him up or something? Just in case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't have time. Don't worry about him. He won't come out till way too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He makes me nervous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then throw a rug over him and come on. And try to keep your voice down. You don't want to waken Mother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz charged the lights of the town… It occurred to him that in this state he did not have to be a stubby-legged fat man short on breath. He changed his perception and his velocity increased. Soon he encountered Tokar, who was trotting toward the Barrowiand with Besand's amulet. Bomanz judged his own startling swiftness by Tokar's apparent sluggishness. He was moving fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Headquarters was afire. There was heavy fighting around the barracks. Tokar's teamsters were leading the attackers. A few Guardsmen had broken out of the trap. Trouble was seeping into the town.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz reached his shop. Upstairs, Stancil told Glory, "Begin now." As Bo started up the stair, Stancil said, "Dumni. Um muji dumni." Bomanz smashed into his own body. He seized command of his muscles, surged off the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Glory shrieked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz hurled her toward a wall. Her career shattered priceless antiques.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz squealed in agony as all the pains of an old body hit his consciousness. Damn! His ulcer was tearing his gut apart!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He seized his son's throat as he turned, silencing him before he finished the cantrip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil was younger, stronger. He rose. And Glory threw herself at Bomanz. Bomanz darted backward. "Don't anybody move," he snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil rubbed his throat and croaked something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't think I would? Try me. I don't care who you are. You're not going to free that thing out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you know?" Stancil croaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've been acting strange. You have strange friends. I hoped I was wrong, but I don't take chances. You should have remembered that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil drew a knife. His eyes hardened. "I'm sorry, Pop. Some things are more important than people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz's temples throbbed. "Behave yourself. I don't have time for this. I have to stop Tokar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Glory drew a knife of her own. She sidled a step closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're trying my patience, son."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl jumped. Bomanz uttered a word of power. She plunged headlong into the table slid to the floor, almost inhumanly limp. In seconds she was limper still. She mewled like an injured kitten.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil dropped to one knee. "I'm sorry, Glory. I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz ignored his own emotional agony. He salvaged the quicksilver spilled from the bowl that had been atop the table, mouthed words which transformed its surface into a mirror of events afar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar was two thirds of the way to the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You killed her," Stancil said. "You killed her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I warned you, this is a cruel business." And: "You made a bet and lost. Sit your butt in the corner and behave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You killed her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Remorse smashed in even before his son forced him to act. He tried to soften the impact, but the melting of bones was all or nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stancil fell across his lover.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His father fell to his knees beside him. "Why did you make me do it? You fools. You bloody damned fools! You were using me. You didn't have sense enough to make sure of me, and you want to deal with something like the Lady? I don't know. I don't know. What am I going to tell Jasmine? How can I explain?" He looked around wildly, an animal tormented. "Kill myself. That's all I can do. Save her the pain of learning what her son was… Can't. Got to stop Tokar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was fighting in the street outside. Bomanz ignored it. He scrabbled after quicksilver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar was at the edge of the moat, staring into the Barrowland. Bomanz saw the fear and uncertainty in him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tokar found his courage. He gripped the amulet and crossed the line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz began building a killing sending.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His glance crossed the doorway, spied a frightened Snoopy watching from the dark landing. "Oh, child. Child, get out of here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm scared. They're killing each other outside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We're killing each other in here, too, he thought. Please go away. "Go find Jasmine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A horrendous crash came from the shop. Men cursed. Steel met steel. Bomanz heard the voice of one of Tokar's teamsters. The man was deploying a defense of the house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Guard had made a comeback.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Snoopy whimpered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stay out of here, child. Stay out. Go down with Jasmine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm scared."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So am I. And I won't be able to help if you get in my way. Please go downstairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ground her teeth and rattled away. Bomanz sighed. That was close. If she had seen Stance and Glory…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uproar redoubled. Men screamed. Bomanz heard Corporal Husky bellowing orders. He turned to the bowl. Tokar had disappeared. He could not relocate the man. In passing he surveyed the land between the town and the Barrowland. A few Resurrectionists were rushing toward the fighting, apparently to help. Others were in headlong flight. Remnants of the Guard were in pursuit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Boots pounded upstairs. Again Bomanz interrupted the preparation of his sending. Husky appeared in the doorway. Bomanz started to order him out. He was in no mood to argue. He swung a great bloody sword…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz used the word of power. Again a man's bones turned to jelly. Then again and again as Husky's troopers tried to avenge him. Bomanz dropped four before the rush ended.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to get back to his sending....</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time the interruption was nothing physical. It was a reverberation along the pathway he had opened into the Lady's crypt. Tokar was on the Great Barrow and in contact with the creature it contained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too late," he murmured. "Too damned late." But he made the sending anyway. Maybe Tokar would die before he could release those monsters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine cursed. Snoopy screamed. Bomanz piled over the fallen Guardsmen and charged downstairs. Snoopy screamed again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bo entered his bedroom. One of Tokar's men held a knife across Jasmine's throat. A pair of Guardsmen sought an opening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz had no patience left. He killed all three. The house rattled. Teacups clinked in the kitchen. It was a gentle tremor, but a harbinger strong enough to warn Bomanz. His sending had not arrived in time. Resigned, he said, "Get out of the house. There's igoing to be a quake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jasmine looked at him askance. She held the hysterical girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll explain later. If we survive. Just get out of the house." He whirled and dashed into the street, charged toward the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Imagining himself tall and lean and fleet did no good now. He was Bomanz in the flesh, a short, fat old man easily winded. He fell twice as tremors shook the town. Each was stronger than the last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fires still burned, but the fighting had died away. The survivors on both sides knew it was too late for a decision of the sword. They stared toward the Barrowland, awaiting the unfolding of events.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz joined the watchers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The comet burned so brightly the Barrowland was clearly illuminated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A tremendous shock rattled the earth. Bomanz staggered. Out on the Barrowland the mound containing Soulcatcher exploded. A painful glow burned from within. A figure rose from the rubble, stood limned against the glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People prayed or cursed according to predilection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tremors continued. Barrow after barrow opened. One by one, the Ten Who Were Taken appeared against the night. "Tokar," Bomanz murmured, "I hope you rot in Hell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only one chance left. One impossible chance. It rode on the time-bowed shoulders of a pudgy little man whose powers were not at their sharpest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He marshaled his most potent spells, his greatest magicks, all the mystical tricks he had worked out during thirty-seven years worth of lonely nights. And he started walking toward the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hands reached out to detain him. They found no purchase. From the crowd an old woman called, "Bo, no! Please!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept walking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Barrowland seethed. Ghosts howled among the ruins. The Great Barrow shook its hump. Earth exploded upward, flaming. A great winged serpent rose against the night. A great scream poured from its mouth. Torrents of dragonfire inundated the Barrowland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wise green eyes watched Bomanz's progress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fat little man walked into the holocaust, unleashing his arsenal of spells. Fire enveloped him.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_36" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36404461" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36404463" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Five:
THE BARROWLAND, FROM BAD TO WORSE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Returning Raven's letter to the oilskin, I lay back on my bough bed, let my mind go blank. So dramatic, the way Raven told it. I wondered about his sources, though. The wife? Someone had to note the tale's ending and had to hide what was found later. What had become of the wife, anyway? She has no place in legend. Neither does the son, for that matter. The popular stories mention only Bomanz himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something there, though. Something I missed? Ah. Yes. A congruence with personal experience. The name Bomanz had relied upon. The one that, evidently, proved insufficiently powerful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd heard it before. In equally furious circumstances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In Juniper, as the contest between the Lady and the Domi-nator neared its climax, with her ensconced in a castle on one side of the city and the Dominator trying to escape through another on the far side, we discovered the Taken meant to do the Company evil once the crisis subsided. Under orders from the Captain we deserted. We seized a ship. As we sailed away, with husband and wife contesting above the burning city, the struggle peaked. The Lady proved the stronger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice of the Dominator shook the world as he vented a last spate of frustration. He had called her by the name Bomanz had thought puissant. Apparently, even the Dominator could be mistaken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One sister killed another and, maybe or maybe not, took her place. Soulcatcher, our one-time mentor and plotter to usurp the Lady, it proved during the great struggle at Charm, was another sister. Three sisters, then. At least. One named Ardath, but evidently not the one who became the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe the beginnings of something here. All those lists, back in the Hole. And the genealogies. Find a woman named Ardath. Then discover who her sisters were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a beginning," I murmured. "Feeble, but a beginning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had forgotten Case. He had not taken advantage. I suppose he was too frightened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing." It had grown dark outside. The drizzle persisted. Out on the Barrowland ghostly lights drifted about. I shuddered. That did not seem right. I wondered how Goblin and One-Eye were getting on. I did not dare go ask. Over in a corner Tracker snored softly. Toadkiller Dog lay against his belly, making sleeping dog noises, but I caught a glint of eye which said he was not unalert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I invested a little more attention in Case. He was shaking, and not just with the chill. He was sure we would kill him. I reached over, rested a hand on his shoulder. "It's all right, son. You won't be harmed. We owe you for looking out for Raven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's really Raven? The Raven that was the White Rose's father?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lad knew the legends. "Yeah. Foster-father, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then he didn't lie about everything. He was in the Forsberg campaigns."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That struck me as humorous. I chuckled, then said, "Knowing Raven, he didn't lie about much. Just edited the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll really let me go?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When we're safe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh." He did not sound reassured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's say when we get to the edge of the Plain of Fear. You'll find plenty of friends out there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wanted to get into a quasi-political discussion about why we insisted on resisting the Lady. I refused. I am no evangelist. I can't make converts. I have too much trouble understanding myself and unravelling my own motives. Maybe Raven could explain after Goblin and One-Eye brought him out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The night seemed endless, but after three eternities which took me up to midnight I heard unsteady footsteps. "Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In," I said. It was Goblin. Without a light I could not read him well, but got the impression that his news was not good. "Trouble?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. We can't get him out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell are you talking about? What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean we don't have the skills. We don't have the talent. This's going to take someone bigger than we are. We aren't much, Croaker. Showmen. With a few handy spells. Maybe Silent could do something. His is a different sort of magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe you'd better back up. Where's One-Eye?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Resting. It was rough on him. Really rocked him, what he saw in there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What was that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I was just his lifeline. And I had to pull him out before he got trapped, too. All I know is, we can't get Raven without help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said. "Double damned floating sheep shit. Goblin, we can't win this one unless we have Raven to help. I don't have what it takes either. I'll never translate half those papers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not even with Tracker's help?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He reads TelleKurre. That's it. I can do that, only I take longer. Raven must know the dialects. Some of the stuff he was translating was in them. Also, there's the question of what he was doing here. Why he faked his death again and took off. On Darling."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe I was jumping to conclusions. I do that. Or maybe I was indulging in the human penchant for oversimplification, figuring that if we just had Raven back our troubles were solved. "What are we going to do?" I wondered aloud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin rose. "I don't know, Croaker. Let's let One-Eye get his feet under him again and find out what we're up against. We can go from there." "Right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slipped out. I lay down and tried to sleep. Whenever I dropped off I had nightmares about the thing lying in the mud and slime the Barrowland had become.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_37" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36404634" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36404636" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Six:
HARD TIMES <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye looked gruesome. "It was grim," he said. "Get the chart out. Croaker." I did. He indicated a point. "He's here. And stuck. Looks like he went all the way to the center along Bomanz's trail, then got in trouble on his way out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How? I don't understand what's going on here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wish you could go in there. A realm of terrible shadows… Guess I should be glad you can't. You'd try it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that crack mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mean's you're too curious for your own good. Like old Bomanz. No. Be still." He paused a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Croaker, something that was trapped there, one of the minions of the Taken, was situated near Bomanz's path. He was too strong for it. But Raven was an amateur. I think Goblin, Silent, and I together would have trouble with this thing, and we're more skilled than Raven could be. He underestimated the dangers and overestimated himself. As he was leaving, this thing usurped his position and left him in its place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned, not quite understanding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye explained, "Something used him to keep the balance of the old spells. So he's stuck in a net of old-time sorcery. And it's out here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sinking feeling. A feeling edging despair. "Out? And you don't know?…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing. The chart indicates nothing. Bomanz must have been contemptuous of the lesser evils. He hasn't marked a dozen. There should have been scores."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The literature supported that. "What did he tell you? Were you able to communicate?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. He was aware of a presence. But he's in a sinkhole of spells. I couldn't contact him without getting caught myself. There's a small imbalance there, like what went out might have been a hair more than what stayed in. I did try to get close to him. That was why Goblin had to yank me out. I did sense a great fear, not due to his situation. Only anger there. I think he got caught only because he was in so big a hurry he didn't pay attention to his surroundings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got the message. Been to the center, and in flight. What lay at the center? "You think whatever got away might try to open the Great Barrow?" "It might try engineering it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a brainstorm. "Why not sneak Darling out here? She could…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye gave me a don't-be-stupid look. Right. Raven was the least of the things a null would loose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The big guy would love that," Goblin chided. "Purely love it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing we can do for Raven here." One-Eye said. "Someday we might find a wizard who can. Till then?" He shrugged. "Better make a pact of silence. Darling might forget her mission if she finds out." "Agreed," I said. Then: "But…" "But what?" i "I've been thinking about that. Darling and Raven. There's something there we don't see, I think. I mean, considering the way he always was, why did he cut out and come here? On the face of it, to sneak around the Lady and her gang. But why would he leave Darling in the dark? You see what I'm saying? Maybe she wouldn't be as upset as we think. Or maybe for different reasons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye looked dubious. Goblin nodded. Tracker looked baffled, as usual.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about his body?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A definite encumbrance," One-Eye replied. "And I can't say but what taking him to the Plain might not snap the connection between flesh and spirit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop." I looked at Case. He looked at me. Here we had another double bind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew one sure way of solving Raven's body problem. And of getting him brought out. Betray him to the Lady. That might solve several other problems, too. Like the escaped whatever, and the threat of another escape attempt by her husband. It might buy Darling time, too, for the Lady's attention would shift dramatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what would become of Raven then?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could be the key to our success or failure. Give him up to save him? Play the very long odds that we could somehow get him in hand again before his knowledge could hurt us? Ever a quandary. Ever a quandary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin suggested, "Let's give it another look. This time I'll take the point. One-Eye will cover."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye's sour look said they had had a knock-down-drag-out about this before. I kept my mouth shut. It was their area of expertise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" Goblin demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you think it's worthwhile."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do. Anyway, there's nothing to lose. Different viewpoint might help, too. I might catch something he missed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Having only one eye don't blind me," One-Eye snarled. Goblin glowered. This had arisen before, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't waste time," I said. "We can't stay put forever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes decisions get made for you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deep in the night. Wind in the trees. Chill fingering into the shelter, waking me to shiver till I fell asleep again. Rain pattering steadily, but not restfully. Gods, was I sick of rain. How could the Eternal Guard maintain any semblance of sanity?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand shook me. Tracker whispered, "Company coming. Trouble." Toadkiller Dog was at the tent flap, hackles up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I listened. Nothing. But no point not taking his word. Better safe than dead. "What about Goblin and One-Eye?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not finished yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh-oh." I scrambled for clothing, for weapons. Tracker said, "I'll go scout them and try to scare or lead them off. You warn the others. Get ready to run." He slipped out of the tent behind Toadkiller Dog. Damned beast showed some life now!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our whispering wakened Case. Neither of us spoke. I wondered what he would risk. I covered my head with my blanket and left. Sufficient unto the day the evil thereof.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Into the other tent, where I found both men in trances. "Shit. Now what?" Did I dare try waking One-Eye? Softly: "One-Eye. This is Croaker. We've got trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. His good eye opened. For a moment he seemed disoriented. Then: "What're you doing here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trouble. Tracker says there's somebody in the woods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cry came through the rain. One-Eye bolted upright. "The power!" he spat. "What the hell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Somebody just ripped off a spell almost like one of the Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you get Goblin out? Fast?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can…" Another cry ripped through the woods. This one stretched out and out, and seemed as much of despair as of agony. "I'll get him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sounded like all hope had gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Taken. Had to be. Sniffed out our tracks. Closing in. But the cries… First one somebody Tracker ambushed? Second one Tracker gotten? Didn't sound like him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye lay down and closed his eye. In moments he was back in trance, though his face betrayed the fear on his surface mind. He was good, to go under such tension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a third cry from the woods. Baffled, I moved to where I could look into the rain. I saw nothing. Moments later Goblin stirred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked awful. But his determination showed he had gotten the word. He forced himself upright though it was obvious he was not ready. His mouth kept opening and closing. I had a feeling he wanted to tell me something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye came out after him but recovered more quickly. "What's happened?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another yell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Drop everything? Run for it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can't. We have to get some of this stuff back to the Plain. Otherwise we might as well surrender right here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. Get it together. I'll take care here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Getting things together was not much of a job. I had unpacked very little… Something roared out in the woods. I froze. "What the hell?" Sounded like something bigger than four lions. A moment later there were screams.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No sense. No sense at all. I could see Tracker raising nine kinds of hell with the Guard, but not if they had one of the Taken with them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye showed up as I began knocking the tent down. Goblin still looked like hell. One-Eye carried half his stuff. "Where's the kid?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had paid no attention to his absence. It hadn't surprised me. "Gone. How are we going to carry Raven?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My answer stepped out of the woods. Tracker. Looking a little the worse for wear, but still healthy. Toadkiller Dog was covered with blood. He seemed more animated than I had seen before. "Let's get him out of here," Tracker said, and moved to take one end of the litter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the wagon?" I lifted the other end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forget it. I'm sure they found it. March."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We marched, letting him lead the way. I asked, "What was all that uproar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Caught them by surprise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even the Taken can be surprised. Save your breath. He isn't dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a few hours it was put one foot in front of the other and don't look back. Tracker set a tough pace. In a corner of my mind where the observer still dwelt, I noted that Toadkiller Dog kept the pace with ease.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin collapsed first. Once or twice he had tried to catch me and pass something along, but he just did not have the energy. When he went down, Tracker stopped, looked back irritably. Toadkiller Dog lay down in the wet leaves, rumbling. Tracker shrugged, set his end of the litter down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was my cue to drop. Like a stone. And damn the rain and mud. I couldn't get any wetter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gods, my arms and shoulders ached. Needles of fire drove into me where the muscles start swooping up to the neck. "This isn't going to work," I said after I caught some breath. "We're too old and weak."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker considered the forest. Toadkiller Dog rose, sniffed the wet wind. I struggled up long enough to look back the way we had come, trying to guess which direction we had run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">South, of course. North made no sense and east or west would have put us in the Barrowland or river. But if we kept heading south we would encounter the old Oar road where it curved in beside the Great Tragic. That stretch was sure to be patrolled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With my breath partially restored and my breathing no longer roaring in my ears, I could hear the river. It was no more than a hundred yards away, churning and grumbling as always.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker came out of a reflective mood. "Guile, then. Guile."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm hungry," One-Eye said, and I realized I was too. "Reckon we'll get a lot hungrier, though." He smiled feebly. He now had enough strength to look Goblin over. "Croaker. Want to come check him out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Funny that they aren't enemies when the pinch comes.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_38" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36404985" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36404988" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Seven:
THE FOREST AND BEYOND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Two days passed before we ate, courtesy of Tracker's skill as a hunter. Two days we spent dodging patrols. Tracker knew those woods well. We disappeared into their deeps and drifted southward at a more relaxed pace. After the two days Tracker felt confident enough to let us have a fire. It was not much, though, because finding burnable wood was a pain. Its value was more psychological than physical.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Misery balanced by rising hope. That was the story of our two weeks in the Old Forest. Hell, trekking overland, off the road, was as fast or faster than using the road itself. We felt halfway optimistic when we neared the southern verge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I am tempted to dwell on the misery and the arguments about Raven. One-Eye and Goblin were convinced we were doing him no good. Yet they could come up with no alternative to dragging him along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I carried another weight in my belly, like a big stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin got to me that second night while Tracker and Toadkiller Dog were hunting. He whispered, "I got farther in than One-Eye did. Almost to the center. I know why Raven didn't get out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He saw too much. What he went to see, probably. The Dominator is not asleep. I…" He shuddered. It took him a moment to get hold of himself. "I saw him, Croaker. Looking back at me. And laughing. If it hadn't been for One-Eye… I'd have been caught just like Raven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, my," I said softly, mind abuzz with the implications. "Awake? And working?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Don't talk about it. Not to anybody till you can tell Darling."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a hint of fatalism in him then. He doubted he would be around long. Scary. "One-Eye know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll tell him. Got to make sure word gets back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not just tell us all?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not Tracker. There's something wrong with Tracker… Croaker. Another thing. The old-time wizard. He's in there, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Alive. Like he's frozen or something. Not dead, but not able to do anything… The dragon…" He shut up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker arrived, carrying a brace of squirrels. We barely let them warm before we attacked them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We rested a day before tackling the tamed lands. Henceforth it would be scurry from one smidgen of cover to the next, mouselike, by night. I wondered what the hell the point might be. The Plain of Fear might as well be in another world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That night I had a golden dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do not recall anything except that she touched me, and somehow tried to warn me. I think exhaustion more than my amulet blocked the message. Nothing stuck. I wakened retaining only a vague sense of having missed something critical.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">End of the line. End of the game. Two hours out of the Great Forest I knew our time was approaching. Darkness was inadequate insulation. Nor were my amulets sufficient.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Taken were in the air. I felt them on the prowl once it was too late to turn back. And they knew their quarry was afoot. We could hear the distant clamor of battalions moving to bar retreat into the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My amulet warned me of the near passage of Taken repeatedly. When it did not, as it seemed not always to do-perhaps because the new Taken did not affect it- Toadkiller Dog gave warning. He could smell the bastards coming a league away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other amulet did help. That and Tracker's genius for laying a crooked trail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the circle closed. And closed. And we knew that it would not be long before there were no gaps through which we could slide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do we do. Croaker?" One-Eye asked. His voice was shaky. He knew. But he wanted to be told. And I could neither give the order nor do it myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These men were my friends. We had been together all my adult life. I could not tell them to kill themselves. I could not cut them down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I could not allow them to be captured, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A vague notion formed. A foolish one, really. At first I thought it simple desperation silliness. What good?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then something touched me. I gasped. The others felt it, too. Even Tracker and his mutt. They jumped as if stung. I gasped again. "It's her. She's here. Oh, damn." But that made up my mind. I might be able to buy time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Before I could reflect and thus chicken out, I shucked my amulets, shoved them into Goblin's hands, pushed our precious documents at One-Eye. "Thanks, guys. Take care. Maybe I'll see you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bow in hand-the bow she had given me so long ago-I leaped into darkness. Soft protests pursued me. I caught the edge of Tracker asking what the hell was going on. Then I was away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a road not far off, and a little sliver of moon up top. I got onto the one and trotted by the light of the other, pushing my tired old body to its limit, trying to build as big a margin as possible before the inevitable befell me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She would protect me for a time. I hoped. And once caught, I might stall on behalf of the others.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt sorry for them, though. Neither Goblin nor One-Eye was strong enough to help carry Raven. Tracker could not manage alone. If they made it to the Plain of Fear, they would not be able to evade the unenviable duty of explaining everything to Darling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered if any of them would have what it took to finish Raven…Bile rose. My legs were going watery. I tried to fill my mind with nothingness, stared at the road three steps ahead of my feet, puffed hard, kept on. Count steps. By hundreds, over and over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A horse. I could steal a horse. I kept telling myself that, concentrated on that, damning the stitch in my side, till shadows loomed before me and imperials began to shout, and I hared off into a wheat field with the Lady's hounds abay behind me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nearly gave them the slip. Nearly. But then the shadow descended from the heavens. Air whistled past a carpet. And a moment later darkness devoured me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I welcomed it as the end of my miseries, hoping it was permanent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was light when I regained consciousness. I was in a cold place, but all places are cold in the north countries. I was dry. For the first time in weeks, I was dry. I harkened back to my run and recalled the sliver of moon. A sky clear enough for a moon. Amazing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I cracked one eye. I was in a room with walls of stone. It had the look of a cell. Beneath me, a surface neither hard nor wet. How long since I had lain on a dry bed? Blue Willy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I became aware of an odor. Food! Hot food, on a platter just inches from my head, atop a small stand. Some mess that looked like overcooked stew. Gods, did it smell good!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rose so swiftly my head spun. I almost passed out. Food! The hell with anything else. I ate like the starved animal I was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had not quite finished when the door slammed inward. Exploded inward, ringing off the wall. A huge dark form stamped through. For a moment I sat with spoon halfway between bowl and mouth. This thing was human? It stepped to one side, weapon ready.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Four imperials followed, but I hardly noticed, so taken was I with the giant. Man, all right, but bigger than any I'd ever seen. And looking lithe and spritely as an elf for all his size.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The imperials paired to either side of the doorway, presented arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I demanded, determined to go down with a defiant grin. "No drumrolls? No trumpets?" I presumed I was about to meet my captor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I can call them when I call them. Whisper came through the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was more startled by seeing her than by the dramatic advent of her giant thug. She was supposed to be holding the western boundary of the Plain… Unless… I could not think it. But the worm of doubt gnawed anyway. I had been out of touch a long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are the documents?" she demanded, without preamble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A grin smeared my face. I had succeeded. They had not caught the others… But elation faded swiftly. There were more imperials behind Whisper, and they bore a litter. Raven. They dumped him roughly onto a cot opposite mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their hospitality was not niggardly. It was a grand cell. Plenty of room for the prisoner to stretch his legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found my grin. "Now, you shouldn't ask questions like that. Mama wouldn't like it. Remember how angry she became last time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper was always a cool one. Even when she led the Rebel, she never let emotion get in the way. She did remind me, "Your death can be an unpleasant one, physician."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dead is dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A slow smile spread upon her colorless lips. She was not a lovely woman. That nasty smile did not improve her looks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got the message. Down in the dark inside me something howled and gibbered like a monkey getting roasted. I resisted its call to terror. Now, if ever there was one, was a time to act as a brother of the Black Company. I had to buy time. Had to give the others the longest head start possible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She might have read my mind as she stood there staring, smiling. "They won't get far. They can hide from witchery, but they cannot hide from the hounds."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart sank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As if cued, a messenger arrived. He whispered to Whisper. She nodded. Then she turned to me. "I go to collect them now. Think on the Limper in my absence. For once I have drained you of knowledge, I may deliver you to him." Smile again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never were a nice lady," I said, but it came feebly and got said to her departing back. Her menagerie went with her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I checked Raven. He seemed unchanged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lay on my cot, closed my eyes, tried to push everything out of my mind. It had worked once before when I needed contact with the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where was she? I knew she was near enough to sense last night. But now? Was she playing some game?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she had said no special consideration… Still. There is consideration and consideration.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_39" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36405300" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36405302" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Eight:
THE FORTRESS AT DEAL <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bam! The old door trick. This time I had heard the man-mountain stomping down the hall, so I did not react except to ask, "Don't you ever knock, Bruno?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No response. Till Whisper stepped inside. "Get up, physician."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I would have made a crude remark, but something in her voice chilled me beyond the chill due my straits. I rose,.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked terrible. Not that she was much different physically. But something inside had gone dead and cold and frightened. "What was that thing?" she demanded. I was baffled. "What thing?" "The thing you were traveling with. Speak." I could not, for I hadn't the slightest notion what she was blathering about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We caught up. Or my men did. I arrived only in time to count the bodies. What shreds twenty hounds and a hundred men in armor, in minutes, then disappears from mortal ken?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gods, One-Eye and Goblin must have outdone themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still I did not speak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You came from the Barrowland. Where you were tampering. Did you call something forth?" She sounded as though she were musing. "It's time we found out. It's time we found out how tough you really are, soldier." She faced the giant. "Bring him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave it my best shot by playing my dirtiest. I pretended meek for just long enough to let him relax. Then I stomped his foot, running the side of my boot down his shin. Then I spun away and kicked at his crotch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guess I'm getting old and slow. Course, he was a lot faster than a man his size should be. He leaned back, caught my foot, and threw me across the room. Two imperials got me up and started dragging me. I went with the satisfaction of seeing the big man limp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried a few more tricks, just to slow things up. They did little more than get me knocked around. The imperials strapped me down in a high-backed wooden chair in a room where Whisper had set up to practice her magicks. I saw nothing especially villainous. That only made the anticipation worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They got two or three good screams out of me and were working themselves up to get unpleasant when the tableau suddenly broke up. The imperials ripped me out of the chair, hustled me toward my cell. I was too foggy to wonder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Till, in the hallway a few yards short of that cell, we encountered the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. So. My message had gotten through. I'd thought the brief touch I'd made a response in wishful thinking at the time. But here she was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The imperials ran. Is she that terrible to her own people?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper stood her ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever passed between them did so unspoken. Whisper helped me to my feet, pushed me into the cell. Her face was stone but her eyes were asmoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Curses. Foiled again," I croaked, and fell onto my cot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was plain daylight when the door closed. It was night when I wakened and she was standing over me, wearing her guise of beauty. She said, "I warned you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." I tried to sit up. I had aches everywhere, both from maltreatment and from pushing an old body beyond its limits before my capture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stay. I would not have come had my own interests not demanded it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would not have called otherwise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Again you do me a favor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only in the interest of self-preservation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You may, as they say, have jumped from the frying pan into the fire. Whisper lost many men today. To what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Goblin and One-Eye…" I shut up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn groggy head. Damn sympathetic voice. Said too much already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It wasn't them. They haven't the skill to raise anything like that. I saw the bodies." "I don't know, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you. Even so… I've seen wounds like those before. I'll show you before we leave for the Tower." Was there ever any doubt about that? "When you make your examination, reflect on the fact that the last time men died in such fashion my husband ruled the world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">None of this added up. But I was not worried about it. I was worried about my own future.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He has begun to move already. Long before I expected. Will he never lie quietly and let me get on with my work?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some sums started toting. One-Eye saying something had gotten out. Raven having been caught because of it… "Dumb shit Raven, you did it again." On his own, trying to care for Darling, he had damned near let the Dominator break through at Juniper. "What did you do this time?" Why would it follow and protect One-Eye and them? "This is Raven, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Screwup Number Two for Croaker. Why can't I keep my big damned mouth shut?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She bent over him, rested a hand on his forehead. I watched from beneath my brows, unfocused. I could not look at her direct. She did have the power to sway stone. ;</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will return soon," she said, heading for the door. "Fear not. You will be safe in my absence." The door closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure," I murmured. "Safe from Whisper, maybe. But how safe from you?" I looked around the room, wondering if I might end my life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper took me out to look at the carnage where hounds and imperials had overhauled One-Eye and Goblin. Not pleasant, I'll tell you. The last I saw the like was when we went up against the forvalaka in Beryl, ere we joined the Lady. I wondered if that monster was back and tracking One-Eye again. But he had slain it during the Battle at Charm. Hadn't he?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the Limper survived…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hell, yes, he did. And two days after the Lady took off-I was imprisoned in the old fortress at Deal, I'd learned-he made an appearance. A little friendly visit, just for old time's sake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sensed his presence before I actually saw him. And terror nearly unmanned me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How had he known? … Whisper. Almost certainly Whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He came to my cell, buoyed on a miniature carpet. His name no longer really described him. He could not get around without that carpet. He was but the shadow of a being, human wreckage animated by sorcery and a mad, burning will.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He floated into my cell, hovered there considering me. I did my best to appear unintimidated, failed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A ghost of a voice stirred the air. "Your time has come. It will be a prolonged and painful ending to your tale. And I will enjoy every moment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I doubt it." Had to keep up the show. "Mama won't like you messing with her prisoner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is not here, physician." He began to drift backward. "We will begin soon. After time for reflection." A snatch of insane chuckle drifted in behind him. I am not sure if he or Whisper was the source. She was in the hallway, watching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice said, "But she is here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They froze. Whisper went pallid. Limper sort of folded in upon himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady materialized out of nowhere, appearing first as golden sparkles. She said nothing more. The Taken did not speak either, for there was nothing they could say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to interject one of my remarks, but the better part of valor prevailed. Instead, I tried to make myself small. A roach. Beneath notice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But roaches get squished beneath the uncaring foot…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady finally spoke. "Limper, you were given an assignment. Nowhere in your brief is there an allowance for you to leave your command. Yet you have done so. Again. And the results are the same as when you slipped off to Roses to sabotage Soulcatcher." Limper wilted even more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was one damned long time ago. One of our sneaky tricks on the Rebel of the day. What happened was, the Rebel attacked Limper's headquarters while he was away from his demense trying to undermine Soulcatcher. So Darling was whooping it up on the Plain. My spirits rose. It was the confirmation I'd had that the movement had not collapsed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go," the Lady said. "And know this. There will be no more understanding. Henceforth we live by the iron rules as my husband made them. Next time will be the last time. For you or anyone else who serves me. Do you understand? Whisper? Limper?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They understood. They were careful to say so in so many words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was communication there beneath the level of mere words, not accessible to me, for they went away absolutely convinced their continued existence depended upon unquestioning and unswerving obedience not only to the letter but the spirit of their orders. They went with a crushed air. The Lady faded the moment my cell door closed. She appeared in the flesh shortly before nightfall. Her anger still simmered. I gathered, from hearing guards gossip, that Whisper had been ordered back to the Plain, too. Things had turned bad out there. The Taken on the scene could not cope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give them hell, Darling," I murmured. "Give them hell." I was working hard on resigning myself to whatever fate's horror shop stocked for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guards brought me out of the cell soon after nightfall. They brought Raven, too. I asked no questions. They would not have answered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady's carpet rested in the fortress' main court. The soldiers placed Raven upon it, tied him down. A glum sergeant gestured for me to board. I did so, surprising him by knowing what to do. My heart was in my heels. I knew my destination. The Tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I waited half an hour. Finally she came. She looked thoughtful. Even a little disturbed and uncertain. She took her place at the leading edge of the carpet. We rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Riding a windwhale is more comfortable and much less trying to the nerves. A windwhale has substance, has scale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We rose perhaps a thousand feet and began running south. I doubt we were making more than thirty miles per hour. It would be a long flight, then, unless she chose to break it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After an hour she faced me. I could barely discern her features. She said, "I visited the Barrowland, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not respond, not knowing what was expected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What have you done? What have you people set free?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at Raven. "Perhaps there is a way." After a time: "I know the thing that is loose… Sleep, physician. We'll talk another time." And I went to sleep. And when I wakened I was in another cell. And knew, by the uniforms, that my new prison was the Tower at Charm.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_40" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36405621" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36405623" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirty-Nine:
A GUEST AT CHARM <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A colonel of the Lady's household force came for me. He was almost polite. Even back when, her troops never were sure of my status. Poor babies. I had no niche in their ordered and hierarchical universe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel said, "She wants you now." He had a dozen men with him. They did not look like an honor guard. Neither did they act like executioners.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not that it mattered. I would go if they had to carry me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I left with a backward glance. Raven was holding his own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel left me at a doorway into the inner Tower, the Tower inside the Tower, into which few men pass, and from which fewer return. "March," he said. "I hear you've done this before. You know the drill."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped through the doorway. When I looked back I saw only stone wall. For a moment I became disoriented. That passed and I was in another place. And she was there, framed by what appeared to be a window, though her parts of the Tower are completely ensheathed within the rest. "Come here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went. She pointed. I looked out that non-window on a burning city. Taken soared above it, hurling magicks that died. Their target was a phalanx of windwhales that were devastating the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling was riding one of the whales. They were staying within her null, where they were invulnerable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are not, though," the Lady said, reading my thoughts. "Mortal weapons will reach them. And your bandit girl. But it does not matter. I've decided to suspend operations." I laughed. "Then we've won."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do believe that was the first time I ever saw her piqued with me. A mistake, mocking her. It could make her reassess emotionally a decision made strategically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have won nothing. If that is the perception a shift of focus will generate, then I will not break off. I will adjust the campaign's focus instead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn you, Croaker. Leam to keep your big goddamn mouth shut around people like this. You will jack-jaw your way right into a meat grinder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After regaining her self-control, she faced me. The Lady, from just two feet away. "Be sarcastic in your writing if you like. But when you speak, be prepared to pay a price." "I understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you would." She faced the scene again. In that far city-it looked like Frost-a flaming windwhale fell after being caught in a storm of shafts hurled by ballistae bigger than any I'd ever seen. Two could play the suck-in game. "How well did your translations go?" "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The documents you found in the Forest of Cloud, gave to my late sister Soulcatcher, took from her again, gave to your friend Raven, and took from him in turn. The papers you thought would give you the tool of victory." "Those documents. Ha. Not well at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You couldn't have. What you sought isn't there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were misled. Yes. I know. Bomanz put them together, so they must hold my true name. Yes? But that has been eradicated-except, perhaps, in the mind of my husband." She became remote suddenly. "The victory at Juniper cost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He learned the lesson Bomanz did too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So. You noticed. He has information enough to pry an answer from what happened… No. My name isn't there. His is. That was why they so excited my sister. She saw an opportunity to supplant us both. She knew me. We were children together, after all. And protected from one another only by the most tangled web that could be woven. When she enlisted you in Beryl she had no greater ambition than to undermine me. But when you delivered those documents…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was thinking aloud as much as explaining.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was stricken by a sudden insight. "You don't know his name!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was never a love match, physician. It was the shakiest of alliances. Tell me. How do I get those papers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we all lose. This is true, Croaker. While we argue and while our respective allies strive to slash one another's throats, the enemy of us all is shedding his chains. All this dying will be for naught if the Dominator wins free."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Destroy him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's impossible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the town where I was born there is a folk tale about a man so mighty he dared mock the gods. In the end his might proved sheer hubris, for there is one against whom even the gods are powerless."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the point?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To twist an old saw, death conquers all. Not even the Dominator can wrestle death and win every time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are ways," she admitted. "But not without those papers. You will return to your quarters now, and reflect. I will speak to you again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was dismissed that suddenly. She faced the dying city. Suddenly, I knew my way out. A powerful impulse drove me toward the door. A moment of dizziness and I was outside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel came puffing along the corridor. He returned me to my cell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I planted myself on my bunk and reflected, as ordered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was evidence enough that the Dominator was stirring, but… The business about the documents not holding the lever we had counted on-that was the shocker. That I had to swallow or reject, and my choice might have critical repercussions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was leading me for her own ends. Of course. I conceived numerous possibilities, none pleasant, but all making a sort of sense…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd said it. If the Dominator broke out, we were all in the soup, good guys and bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fell asleep. There were dreams, but I do not recall them. I awakened to find a hot meal freshly delivered, sitting atop a desk that had not been there before. On that desk was a generous supply of writing materials.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She expected me to resume my Annals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I devoured half the food before noting Raven's absence. The old nerves began to rattle. Why was he gone? Where to? What use did she have for him? Leverage?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time is funny inside the Tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The usual Colonel arrived as I finished eating. The usual soldiers accompanied him. He announced, "She wants you again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Already? I just came back from there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four days ago."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched my cheek. I have been affecting only a partial beard of late. My face was brushy. So. One long sleep. "Any chance I could get a razor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel smiled thinly. "What do you think? A barber can come in. Will you come along?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got a vote? Of course not. I followed rather than be dragged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drill was the same. I found her at a window again. The scene showed some corner of the Plain where one of Whisper's fortifications was besieged. It had no heavy ballistae. A windwhale hovered overhead, keeping the garrison in hiding. Walking trees were dismantling the outer wall by the simple mechanism of growing it to death. The way a jungle destroys an abandoned city, though ten thousand times faster than the unthinking forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The entire desert has risen against me," she said. "Whisper's outposts have suffered an annoying variety of attacks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suspect your intrusions are resented. I thought you were going to disengage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried. Your deaf peasant isn't cooperating. Have you been thinking?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been sleeping is what I've been doing. As you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. So. There were matters which demanded attention. Now I can devote myself to the problem at hand." The look in her eye made me want to run… She gestured. I froze. She told me to back up, to sit in a nearby chair. I sat, unable to shake the spell, though I knew what was coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood before me, one eye closed. The open eye grew bigger and bigger, reached out, devoured me…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think I screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moment had been inevitable since my capture, though I had held a foolish hope otherwise. Now she would drain my mind like a spider drains a fly…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I recovered in my cell, feeling as though I had been to hell and back. My head throbbed. It was a major undertaking to rise and stagger to my medical kit, which had been returned after my captors removed the lethals. I prepared an infusion of willow inner bark, which took forever because I had no fire over which to heat the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone came in as I nursed and cursed the first weak, bitter cup. I did not recognize him. He seemed surprised to see me up. "Hello," he said. "Quick recovery."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who the hell are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Physician. Supposed to check you once an hour. You weren't expected to recover for a long time. Headache?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Goddamn well right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cranky. Good." He placed his bag next to my kit, which he glanced through as he opened his. "What did you take?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him, asked, "What do you mean, good?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes they come out listless. Never recover."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" I thought about whipping him just for the hell of it. Just to vent my spleen. But what was the point? Some guard would come bouncing in and make my pains the worse. Too much like work, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you something special?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A flicker of a smile. "Drink this. Better than the bark tea." I downed the drink he offered. "She is most concerned. Never before have I seen her care what became of one subjected to the deep probe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about that?" I was having trouble keeping my foul mood. The drink he'd given me was good stuff, and fast. "What was that concoction? I could use it by the barrel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's addictive. Rendered from the juice of the top four leaves of the parsifal plant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never heard of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rather scarce." He was examining me at the time. "Grows in some place called the Hollow Hills. The natives use it as a narcotic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Company had been through those terrible hills once upon a time. "Didn't know there were natives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're as scarce as the plant. There's been talk in council of growing it commercially after the fighting ends. As a medicinal." He clucked his tongue, which reminded me of the toothless ancient who had taught me medicine. Funny. I hadn't thought of him in ages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Funnier still, all sorts of old odd memories were streaking to the surface, like bottom fish scared toward the light. The Lady had stirred my mind good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not pursue his remark about raising the weed commercially, though that was at odds with my notion of the Lady. The black hearts don't worry about relieving pain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you feel about her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Lady? Right now? Not very charitable. How about you?" He ignored that. "She expects to see you as soon as you recover."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does a bear shit in the woods?" I countered. "I get the idea I'm not exactly a prisoner. How about I get some air on the roof? Can't hardly run away from there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll see if it's permitted. Meantime, take some exercise here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hah. The only exercise I get is jumping to conclusions. I just wanted to get somewhere outside four walls. "Am I still among the living?" I asked when he finished examining me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For the time being. Though with your attitude I am amazed you survived in an outfit like yours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They love me. Worship me. Wouldn't harm a hair on my head." His mention of the outfit put my mood on the downswing. I asked, "You know how long it's been since I was captured?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I think you've been here more than a week. Could be longer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So. Guess at least ten days since my capture. Give the boys the benefit of the doubt, have them moving light and hard, and they had maybe covered four hundred miles. Just one giant step out of many. Crap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stalling was pointless now. The Lady knew everything I did. I wondered if any of it had been of any use. Or much of a surprise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How is my friend?" I asked, suffering a sudden guilt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. He was moved north because his connection with his spirit was becoming attenuated. I'm sure the subject will arise when next you visit the Lady. I'm finished. Have a nice stay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sarky bastard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned as he left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Must run in the profession.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Colonel stepped in a few minutes later. "I hear you want to go to the roof."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Inform the sentry when you would like to go." He had something else on his mind. After a pause he asked, "Isn't there any military discipline in your outfit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was irked because I had not been sirring him. Various smart remarks occurred. I stifled them. My status might not remain enigmatic. "Yes. Though not so much as in earlier days. Not enough of us left since Juniper to make that stuff worth the trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sly shot, Croaker. Put them on the defensive. Tell them the Company fell to its current pitiful state laboring for the Lady. Remind them that it was the empire's satraps who turned first. That must be common knowledge by now, among the officer corps. Something they should think about occasionally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pity, that," the Colonel said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You my personal watchdog?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. She sets great store by you for some reason."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wrote her a poem once," I lied. "I also got the goods on her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned, decided I was bullshitting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I said, by way of extending an olive branch. "I'll write for a while before I go." I was way behind. Except for a bit at Blue Willy I had done nothing but jot an occasional note since leaving the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wrote till cramps compelled me to stop. Then I ate, for a guard brought a meal as I sanded my last sheet. Done gobbling, I went to the door, told the lad there I was ready to go topside. When he opened up I discovered I was not locked in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But where the hell could I go if I got out? Silly even thinking of escape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a feeling I was about to take on the official historian job. Like it or no, it would be the least of many evils.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some tough decisions stared me in the eye. I wanted time to think them over. The Lady understood. Certainly she had the power and talent to be more foresighted than a physician who had spent six years out of touch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sunset. Fire in the west, clouds in raging flame. The sky a wealth of unusual colors. A chill breeze from the north, just enough to shiver and refresh. My guardian stayed well away, permitting the illusion of freedom. I walked to the northern parapet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was little evidence of the great battle fought below. Where once trenches, palisades, earthworks, and siege engines had stood, and burned, and tens of thousands had died, there was parkland. A single black stone Stella marked the site, five hundred yards from the Tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crash and roar returned. I remembered the Rebel horde, relentless, like the sea, wave after wave; smashing upon unyielding cliffs of defenders. I recalled the feuding Taken, their fey and fell deaths, the wild and terrible sorceries…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was a battle of battles, was it not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not turn as she joined me. "It was. I never did it justice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They will sing of it." She glanced up. Stars had begun to appear. In the twilight her face seemed pale and strained. Never before had I seen her in any but the most self-possessed mood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?" Now I did turn, and saw a group of soldiers some distance away, watching, either awed or aghast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have performed a divination. Several, in fact, for I did not get satisfactory results."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps I got no results at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I waited. You do not press the most powerful being in the world. That she was on the verge of confiding in a mortal was stunning enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All is flux. I divined three possible futures. We are headed for a crisis, a history-shaping hour."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned slightly toward her. Violet light shaded her face. Dark hair tumbled down over one cheek. It was not artifice, for once, and the impulse to touch, to hold, perhaps to comfort, was powerful. "Three futures?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three. I could not find my place in any."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What do you say at a moment like that? That maybe there was an error? You accuse the Lady of making a mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In one, your deaf child triumphs. But it is the least likely chance, and she and all hers perish gaining the victory. In another, my husband breaks the grasp of the grave and reestablishes his Domination. That darkness lasts ten thousand years. In the third vision, he is destroyed forever and all. It is the strongest vision, the demanding vision. But the price is great… Are there gods, Croaker? I never believed in gods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Lady. No religion I ever encountered made any sense. None are consistent. Most gods are megalomaniacs and paranoid psychotics by their worshipers' description. I don't see how they could survive their own insanity. But it's not impossible that human beings are incapable of interpreting a power so much greater than themselves. Maybe religions are twisted and perverted shadows of truth. Maybe there are forces which shape the world. I myself have never understood why, in a universe so vast, a god would care about something so trivial as worship or human destiny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I was a child… my sisters and I had a teacher."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did I pay attention? You bet your sweet ass I did. I was ears from my toenails to the top of my pointy head. "A teacher?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. He argued that we are the gods, that we create our own destiny. That what we are determines what will become of us. In a peasantlike vernacular, we all paint ourselves into corners from which there is no escape simply by being ourselves and interacting with other selves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Interesting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. Yes. There is a god of sorts, Croaker. Do you know? Not a mover and shaker, though. Simply a negator. An ender of tales. He has a hunger than cannot be sated. The universe itself will slide down his maw."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Death?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not want to die, Croaker. All that I am shrieks against the unrighteousness of death. All that I am, was, and probably will be, is shaped by my passion to evade the end of me." She laughed quietly, but there was a thread of hysteria there. She gestured, indicating the shadowed killing ground below. "I would have built a world in which I was safe. And the cornerstone of my citadel would have been death."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The end of the dream was drawing close. I could not imagine a world without me in it, either. And the inner me was outraged. Is outraged. I have no trouble imagining someone becoming obsessed with escaping death. "I understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. We're all equals at the dark gate, no? The sands run for us all. Life is but a flicker shouting into the jaws of eternity. But it seems so damned unfair!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Old Father Tree entered my thoughts. He would perish in time. Yes. Death is insatiable and cruel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you reflected?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think so. I'm no necromancer. But I've seen roads I don't want to walk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. You're free to go, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shock. Even my heels tingled with disbelief. "Say what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're free. The Tower gate is open. You need but walk out it. But you're also free to remain, to reenter the lists in the struggle that envelopes us all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was almost no light left except for some sun hitting very high clouds. Against the deep indigo in the east a squadron of bright pinpricks moved westward. They seemed headed toward the Tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gabbled something that made no sense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will she, nihil she, the Lady of Charm is at war with her husband once more," she said. "And till that struggle is lost or won, there is no other. You see the Taken returning. The armies of the east are marching toward the Barrowland. Those beyond the Plain have been ordered to withdraw to garrisons farther east. Your deaf child is in no danger unless she comes looking for it. There is an armistice. Perhaps eternally." Weak smile. "If there is no Lady, there is no one for the White Rose to battle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She left me then, in total confusion, and went to greet her champions. The carpets came down out of the darkness, settling like autumn leaves. I moved a little nearer till my personal guardian indicated that my relationship with the Lady was insufficiently close to permit eavesdropping.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind grew more chill, blowing out of the north. And I wondered if it might not be autumn for us all.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_41" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36406274" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36406276" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty:
MAKING UP MY MIND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">She never once demanded anything. Even her hints were so oblique they left everything to me to work out. Two days after our evening on the ramparts I asked the Colonel if I might see her. He said he would ask. I suspect he was under instructions. Otherwise there would have been arguments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another day passed before he came to say the Lady had time for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I closed my inkwell, cleaned my quill, and rose. "Thank you." He looked at me oddly. "Is something wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Just…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I understood. "I don't know either. I'm sure she has some special use for me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That brightened the Colonel's day. That he could comprehend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The usual routine. This time I entered her demense as she stood at a window opening on a world of wet gloom. Grey rain, choppy brown water, and hulking to the left, shapes barely discernible, trees clinging precariously to a high river bank. Cold and misery leaked out of that portraiture. It had a too familiar smell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Great Tragic River," she said. "In full flood. But it's always in flood, isn't it?" She beckoned. I followed. Since my last visit a large table had been added. Atop it was a miniature of the Barrowland, a representation so good it was spooky. You almost expected to see little Guards scurrying around the compound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Though I've been there twice, I'm not familiar with much but the town and the compound. What am I supposed to see?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The river. Your friend Raven evidently recognized its import." With one delicate finger she sketched a loop well to the east of the river's course, which curved into the ridge where we had camped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At the time of my triumph in Juniper the river's bed lay here. A year later the weather turned. The river flooded continuously. And crept this way. Today it's devouring this ridge. I examined it myself. The ridge is entirely earthen, without bones of stone. It won't last. Once it goes, the river will cut into the Barrowland. All the spells of the White Rose won't keep it from opening the Great Barrow. Each fetish swept away will make it that much easier for my husband to rise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grunted. "Against Nature there is no defense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There is. If one foresees. The White Rose did not. I did not when I attempted to bind him more securely. Now it's too late. So, You wanted to speak to me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I have to leave the Tower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So. You didn't have to come to me about that. You're free to stay or go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going because there're things I have to do. As you well know. If I walk, I'll probably get them done too late. It's a long hike to the Plain. Not to mention risky. I want to beg transportation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, and this smile was genuine, radiant, subtly different from previous smiles. "Good. I thought you would see where the future lies. How soon can you be ready?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Five minutes. There is one question. Raven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Raven has been hospitalized at the compound at the Barrowland. Nothing can be done for him right now. Every effort will be made when an opportunity arises. Sufficient?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could not argue, of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good. Transport will be available. You will have a unique chauffeur. The Lady herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I, too, have been thinking. My best next step is to meet your White Rose. I'm going with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After gulping quarts of air, I managed, "They'd jump all over you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not if they don't know me. They wouldn't, unless they were told."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, no one was likely to recognize her. I am unique in having met her and lived to brag on it. But… Gods, the heaps and bales of buts. "If you entered the null, all your spells would fall apart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. New spells wouldn't work. Spells in place would be safe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not understand and said so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A simple glamor will fade on entering the null. It is being actively maintained. A spell which changes and leaves changed, but which isn't active on entering the null, won't be affected."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something off in the badlands of my mind tickled me. I could not run it down. "If you turned into a frog and hopped in there, you'd stay a frog?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the transformation was actual and not just an illusion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see." I hung a red flag on that, told me to worry it later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will become a companion acquired along the way. Say, someone who can help with your documents."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had to be levels of deceit. Or something. I could not imagine her putting her life into my hands. I do believe I gawked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "You begin to understand." "You trust me too much." "I know you better than you know yourself. You're an honorable man, by your own lights, with enough cynicism to believe there can be a lesser of two evils. You have been under the Eye." I shuddered. She did not apologize. We both knew an apology would be false.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure why you want to do this. It makes no sense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There is a new situation in the world. Once there were only two poles, your peasant girl and I, with a line of conflict drawn between. But that which stirs in the north adds another point. It can be seen as a lengthening of the line, with my point near the middle, or as a triangle. The point that is my husband intends destroying both your White Rose and myself. I submit that she and I ought to eliminate the greater danger before…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough. I see. But I don't see Darling being that pragmatic. There's a lot of hatred in her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps. But it's worth a try. Will you help?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Having been within a stone's throw of the old darkness and seen the ghosts astalk on the Barrowland, yes, I would do most anything to keep that dread spook from shedding his grave. But how, how, how trust her!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did that trick they all have, of seeming to read my mind. "You will have me within the null."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. I'll need to think some more."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take your time. I can't leave for some time." I suspect she wanted to establish safeguards against a palace revolution.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_42" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36406485" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36406487" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-One:
A TOWN CALLED HORSE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Fourteen days passed before we took air for Horse, a modest town lying between the Windy Country and the Plain of Fear, about a hundred miles west of the latter. Horse is a caravan stage for those traders mad enough to traipse through those two wildernesses. Of late, the city has been the logistical headquarters for Whisper's operations. What skeleton forces were not on the road to the Barrowland were in garrison there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damned northbound fools were going to get wet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We drifted in after an eventless passage, me with eyes agog. Despite the removal of vast armies, Whisper's base was an anthive swirling around newly created carpets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They came in a dozen varieties. In one field I saw a W formation of five monsters, each a hundred yards long and forty wide. A wood and metal jungle topped each. Elsewhere, other carpets in unusual shapes sat upon ground that looked to have been graded. Most were far longer than they were wide and bigger than the traditional. All had a variety of appurtenances, and all were enveloped in a light copper cage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is all that?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Adaptation to enemy tactics. Your peasant girl isn't the only one who can change methods." She stepped down, stretched. I did the same. Those hours in the air leave you stiff. "We may get the chance to test them, despite my having backed off the Plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A large Rebel force is headed for Horse. Several thousand men and everything the desert has to offer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several thousand men? Where did they come from? Had things changed that much?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They have." That damned mind-reading trick again. "The cities I abandoned poured men into her forces."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you mean, test?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm willing to stop fighting. But I won't run away from a fight. If she persists in heading west, I'll show her that, null or no null, she can be crushed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were near one of the new carpets. I ambled over. In shape it was like a boat, about fifty feet long. It had real seats. Two faced forward, one aft. In front there was a small ballista. Aft there was a much heavier engine. Clamped to the carpet's sides and underbelly were eight spears thirty feet long. Each had a bulge the size of a nail keg five feet behind its head. Everything was painted blacker than the Dominator's heart. This boat-carpet had fins like a fish. Some humorist had painted eyes and teeth up front.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Others nearby followed similar designs, though different artisans had followed different muses in Grafting the flying boats. One, instead of fish fins, had what looked like round, translucent, whisper thin dried seed pods fifteen feet across.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady had no time to let me inspect her equipment and no inclination to let me wander around unchaperoned. Not as a matter of trust, but of protection. I might suffer a fatal accident if I did not stay in her shadow. All the Taken were in Horse. Even my oldest friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bold, bold Darling. Audacity. Becoming her signature, that. She had the entire strength of the Plain just twenty miles from Horse, and she was closing in. Her advance was ponderous, though, limited to the speed of the walking trees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We went out onto the field where the carpets waited, arranged in formal array around the monsters I had spotted first. The Lady said, "I planned a small demonstration raid on your headquarters. But this will be more convincing, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men were busy around the carpets. The big ones they were loading with huge pieces of pottery which looked like those big urn-planters with the little cup-holes in the upper half for small plants. They were fifteen feet tall; the planter sites were sealed with paraffin, and the bottom boasted a twenty foot pole with a crossbar on its end. Scores were being mounted in racks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did a fast count. More carpets than Taken. "All these are going up? How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Benefice will handle the big ones. Like the Howler before him, he has an outstanding capacity for managing a large carpet. The other four bigs will be slaved to his. Come. This one is ours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said something intelligent like, "Urk?!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want you to see it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We might be recognized."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Taken circled the long, skinny boat-carpets. Soldiers were aboard them, in the second and third seats. The men facing aft checked their ballistae, munitions, cranked a spring-powered device apparently meant to help restretch bowstrings after missiles were discharged. I could see no apparent task assigned the men in the middle seats. "What's the cagework for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll learn soon enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come to it fresh. Croaker. Without preconceptions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I followed her around our carpet. I do not know what she checked, but she seemed satisfied. The men who had prepared it were pleased by her nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Up, Croaker. Into the second seat. Fasten yourself securely. It'll get exciting before it's over."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh yeah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're the pathfinders," she said as she buckled into the front seat. A grizzled old sergeant took the rear position. He looked at me doubtfully, but said nothing. The Taken assumed the front seat aboard every carpet. The bigs, as the Lady called them, had crews of four. Benefice rode the carpet at the center point of the W.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ready?" the Lady shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aye," the sergeant said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our carpet began to move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lumbering is the only word to describe the first few seconds. The carpet was heavy and, till it managed some forward motion, did not want to lift.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady looked back and grinned as the earth dropped away. She was enjoying herself. She began shouting instructions which explained the bewildering bunch of pedals and levers surrounding me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Push and pull on these two in combination and the carpet began to roll around its long axis. Twist those and it turned right or left. The idea was to use combinations somehow to guide the craft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?" I shouted into the wind. The words ripped away. We had donned goggles which protected our eyes but did nothing for the rest of our faces. I expected a case of windburn before the game was played out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were two thousand feet up, five miles from Horse, well ahead of the Taken. I could see traces of dust raised by Darling's army. Again I shouted, "What for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bottom fell out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady had extinguished the spells which made the carpet go. "That's why. You'll fly the boat when we hit the null."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What the hell?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave me a half dozen shots at getting the hang of it, and I did see the theory, before she whipped toward the Rebel army.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We circled once, at screaming speed, well outside the null. I was astounded at what Darling had put together. About fifty windwhales, including some monsters over a thousand feet long. Manias by the hundred. A vast wedge of walking trees. Battalions of human soldiers. Menhirs by the hundred, flickering around the walking trees, shielding them. Thousands of things that leaped and hopped and glided and flopped and flew. So gruesome and wondrous a sight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the westward leg of our circle I spied the imperial force, two thousand men in a phalanx on the foreslope of a ridge a mile ahead of the Rebel. A joke, them standing against Darling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few bold mantas cruised the edge of the null, sniping with bolts that fell short or just missed. I judged Darling herself to be aboard a wind whale about a thousand feet up. She had grown stronger, for her null's diameter had expanded since my departure from the Plain. All that bewildering Rebel array marched within its protection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady had called us pathfinders. Our carpet was not equipped like the others, but I did not know what she meant. Till she did it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We climbed straight up. Little black balls trailing streamers of red or blue smoke scattered behind us, shoveled overboard hastily by the old sergeant. Must have been three hundred. The smoke balls scattered, hovered just feet short of the null. So. Markers by which the Taken could navigate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And here they came. Way up, the smaller surrounding the W formation of bigs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men on the bigs began releasing the giant pots. Down, down, down went a score. We followed, sliding along outside the smudge pots. As they plummeted, the flowerpots turned pole-downward. Mantas and whales slid out of their way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the pole hit ground it drove a plunger. The paraffin seals burst. Liquid squirted. The plunger hit a striker. The fluid ignited. Gouts of fire. And when that fire reached something inside the pots, they exploded. Shards cut down men and monsters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched the blooming of those flowers of fire, aghast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above, the Taken wheeled for a second pass. There was no magic in this. The null was useless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The second fall drew lightning from whales and mantas. Their first few successes cured them, though, for the pots they hit exploded in the air. Mantas went down. One whale was in grave trouble till others maneuvered overhead and sprayed it with ballast water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Taken made a third pass, again dropping pots. They would hammer Darling's troops into slime unless she did something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went up after the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smoke pots slid around the flanks of the null, outlining it completely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady climbed at shrieking speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The W of bigs went away. The smaller carpets took on more altitude. The Lady brought us into position behind Whisper and The Limper. Clearly, she had anticipated Darling's response.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My emotions were mixed, to say the least.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper's carpet tipped its nose downward. Limper followed. Then the Lady. Others of the Taken followed us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper dove toward one especially monstrous windwhale. Faster and faster she flew. Three hundred yards from the null two thirty-foot spears ripped away from her carpet, impelled by sorcery. When they hit the null they continued on in a normal ballistic trajectory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper made no effort to avoid the null. Into it she plunged, the man in her second seal guiding the carpel's fall wilh those fish fins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper's spears struck near the windwhale's head. Both burst into flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fire is anathema to those monsters, for the gas that lifts them is violently explosive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Limper trailed Whisper with elan. He loosed two spears outside the null and another two inside, just dropped as his second-seat man took the carpet within inches of the windwhale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only one lance failed to strike home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whale had five fires burning upon its back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Storms of lightning crackled round Whisper and Limper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then we hit the null. Our buoying spells failed. Panic snatched at me. Up to me?…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were headed for the burning whale. I jerked and banged and kicked levers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not so violently!" the Lady yelled. "Smoothly. Gently."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got it in hand as the whale roared upward past us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lightning crackled. We passed between two smaller whales. They missed us. The Lady discharged her little ballista. Its bolt struck one of those monsters. What the hell was the point? I wondered. That was not a bee sting to one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But that quarrel had a wire attached, running off a reel…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wham!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was blinded momenlarily. My hair crackled. Direct hit from a manta bolt… We're dead, I Thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The metal cage surrounding us absorbed the lightning's energy and passed it along the unwinding wire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A manta was on our tail, only yards behind. The sergeant ripped off a shaft. It look our pursuer under The wing. The beast began to slide and flutter like a one-winged butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Watch where we're going!" the Lady yelled. I turned around. A windwhale back rushed toward us. Fledgling mantas scurried in panic. Rebel bowmen threw up a barrage of arrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hit and yanked every damned lever and pedal, and pissed my pants. Maybe that did it. We scraped the thing's flank, but did not crash.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now the damned carpet began spinning and tumbling. Earth, sky, windwhales swirled around us. In one glimpse, way up, I saw a windwhale's side explode, saw the monster fold in the middle, raining gobbets of fire. Two more whales trailed smoke… But it was a picture there and gone in a moment. I could find none of it when the carpel again rolled to where I could see the sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We began our plunge from high enough that I had time to calm down. I fiddled with levers and pedals, got some of the wild spin off…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it did not matter. We were out of the null and it was the Lady's craft again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked back to see how the sergeant was. He gave me a dirty look, shook his head pityingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The look the Lady gave me was not encouraging either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We climbed and moved westward. The Taken assembled, observed the results of their attack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only the one windwhale was destroyed. The other two managed to get under friends who doused them with ballast water. Even so, the survivors were demoralized. They had done the Taken no injury at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, they came on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time the Taken dropped to the surface and attacked from below, building speed from several miles away, then curving up through the null. I maneuvered between whales with a more delicate hand but still fell dangerously near the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are we doing this for?" I yelled. We were not attacking; we were just following Whisper and Limper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For the hell of it. For the sheer hell of it. And so you can write about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll fake it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We went high and circled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling took the whales back down. That second pass slew two more. Down low the Taken could not throw themselves all the way through the null. None but Limper, that is. He played the daredevil. He backed off five miles and built a tremendous velocity before hitting the null.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made that pass while the bigs were dropping the last of their pots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've never heard Darling called stupid. She did not do the stupid thing this time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite all the flash and excitement, it was clear that she could, if she wanted, press on to Horse. The Taken had expended most of their munitions. Limper and the bigs were headed back to rearm. The others circled… Horse was Darling's if she was willing to pay the price.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She decided it was too dear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wise choice. My guess is, it would have cost her half her force. And windwhales are too rare to give up for a prize so insignificant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady broke away and let her go, though she could have maintained the attacks almost indefinitely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We touched down. I scrambled over the side even before the Lady and in a calculated, melodramatic gesture, kissed the ground. She laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had had a great time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You let them go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I made my point."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'll shift tactics."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course she will. But for the moment the hammer is in my hand. By not using it I've told her something. She'll have thought it over by the time we get there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't do badly for a novice. Go get drunk or something. And stay out of Limper's way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What I did was go to the quarters assigned me and try to stop shaking.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_43" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36406999" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36407001" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Two:
HOMECOMING <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady and I entered the Plain of Fear twelve days after the aerial skirmish near Horse. We traveled on horseback, on second-grade nags, along the old trade trail the denizens of the Plain respect with free passage most of the time. Clad in castoffs, for the trail, the Lady was no longer a beauty. No kick-out-of-bed dog, but no eye-catcher.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We entered the Plain aware that by a pessimistic estimate, we had about three months before the Great Tragic River opened the Great Barrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs noted our presence immediately. I sensed them out there, observing. I had to point it out. For this venture the Lady had schooled herself to eschew anything but the most direct and raw sensory input. She would train herself to mortal ways during our ride so she would make no mistake once we reached the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman has guts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I guess anyone willing to play heads-up power games with the Dominator has to have them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I ignored the lurking menhirs and concentrated on explaining the ways of the Plain, revealing the thousand little traps that, at the least, might betray the Lady. It was what a man would do on bringing a newcomer to the land. It would not seem unusual.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three days into the Plain we narrowly missed being caught in a change storm. She was awed. "What was that?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I explained the best I could. Along with all the speculations. She, of course, had heard it all before. But seeing is believing, as they say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not long after that we came on the first of the coral reefs, which meant we were in the deep Plain, among the great strangenesses. "What name will you use?" I asked. "I better get used to it,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think Ardath." She grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have a cruel sense of humor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do believe she was having fun at pretending to be ordinary. Like some great lord's lady slumming. She even took her turns at the cook fire. To my stomach's despair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered what the menhirs made of our relationship. No matter the pretense, there was a brittleness, a formality, that was hard to overcome. And the best we could fake was a partnership, which I am certain they found strange. When did man and woman travel together thus, without sharing bedroll and such?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The question of pursuing verisimilitude that far never arose. And just as well. My panic, my terror, at the suggestion would have been such that nothing else would have arisen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten miles from the Hole we breasted a hill and encountered a menhir. It stood beside the way, twenty feet of weird stone, doing nothing. The Lady asked in touristy fashion, "Is that one of the talking stones?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep. Hi, rock. I'm home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Old rock didn't have anything to say. We passed on. When I looked back it was gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Little had changed. As we crested the last ridge, though, we saw a forest of walking trees crowding the creek. A stand of menhirs both living and dead guarded the crossing. The backwards camel-centaurs gamboled among them. Old Father Tree stood by himself, tinkling, though there was not a breath of wind. Up high, a single buzzardlike avian soared against shattered clouds, watching. One or another of its kind had followed us for days. Of a human presence there was no sign. What did Darling do with her army? She could not pack those men into the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For a moment I was frightened that I had returned to an untenanted keep. Then, as we splashed across the creek, Elmo and Silent stepped out of the coral.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dove off my animal and gathered them into a monster hug. They returned it, and in best Black Company tradition did not ask a single question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Goddamn," I said. "Goddamn, it's good to see you. I heard you guys was wiped out out west somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo looked at the Lady with just the slightest hint of curiosity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Elmo. Silent. This is Ardath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled. "So pleased to meet you. Croaker has said so much about you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had not said a word. But she had read the Annals. She dismounted and offered her hand. Each took it, baffled, for only Darling, in their experience, expected treatment as an equal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, let's go down," I said. "Let's go down. I've got a thousand things to report."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" Elmo said. And that said a lot, for he looked up our backtrail as he said it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some people who had gone away with me had not come back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. We had half the Taken after us. We got separated. I couldn't find them again. But I never heard anything about them being captured. Let's go down. See Darling. I've got incredible news. And get me something to eat. We've been eating each other's cooking forever, and she's a worse cook than I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guck," Elmo said, and slapped me across the back. "And you lived?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm one tough old buzzard, Elmo. You ought to know. Shit, man, I…" I realized I was chattering like a whacko. I grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent signed, "Welcome home, Croaker. Welcome home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come," I told the Lady as we reached the entrance to the Hole, and took her hand. "It'll seem like the pit till your eyes get used to it. And brace yourself for the smell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gods, the stench! Gag a maggot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All kinds of excitement down below. It faded into studied indifference as we passed, then resumed behind us. Silent led straight to the conference room. Elmo split off to order us up something to eat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As we entered I realized that I still held the Lady's hand. She gave me half a smile, in which there was a hell of a lot of nervousness. Talk about strutting into the dragon's lair. Bold old Croaker gave her hand a squeeze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling looked ragged. So did the Lieutenant. A dozen others were there, few of whom I knew. They must have come aboard after the imperials evacuated the perimeter of the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling hugged me for a long time. So long I became flustered. We are not touchy people, she and I. She finally backed off and gave the Lady a look in which there was a hint of jealousy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I signed, "This is Ardath. She will help me translate. She knows the old languages well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling nodded. She asked no questions. So much was I trusted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The food arrived. Elmo dragged in a table and chairs and shooed out everyone but myself, the Lieutenant, himself, Silent, and the Lady. He might have sent her away, too, but remained unsure of her standing with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We ate, and as we did I related my tale in snatches, when my hands and mouth were not full. There were some rough moments, especially when I told Darling that Raven was alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In retrospect I think it was harder on me than on her. I was afraid she would get all excited and hysterical. She did nothing of the sort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">First, she flat refused to believe me. And I could understand that, for till he disappeared Raven had been the cornerstone of her universe emotionally. She could not see him not including her in his biggest lie ever just so he could slip away to go poke around the Barrowland. That made no sense to her. Raven never lied to her before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Made no sense to me, either. But then, as I have noted before, I suspected there was more in the shadows than anyone was admitting. I sniffed the faintest whiff that maybe Raven was running from instead of to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling's denials did not last long. She is not one to disdain truth indefinitely only because it is unpleasant. She handled the pain far better than I anticipated, and that suggested maybe she had had a chance to bleed off some of the worst in the past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, Raven's present circumstances did nothing for Darling's emotional health, already doing poorly after her defeat at Horse. That harbinger of grander defeats to come. Already she suspected she might have to face the imperials without benefit of the information I had been sent to acquire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I conjured universal despair when I announced my failure and added, "I have it on high authority that what we sought isn't in those papers anyway. Though I can't be sure till Ardath and I finish what we have here." I did sketch what I learned from Raven's documents before losing them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not lie outright. That would not be forgiven later, when the truth came out. As inevitably it must. I just overlooked a few details. I even admitted having been captured, questioned, and imprisoned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell are you doing here, then?" Elmo demanded. "How come you're even alive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They turned us loose, Ardath and me. After that business you had near Horse. That was a message. I'm supposed to deliver another."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Such as?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unless you're blind and stupid, you'll have noticed that you're not under attack. The Lady has ordered all operations against the Rebellion ceased."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You haven't been paying attention. Because the Domina-tor is stirring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Croaker. We finished that business in Juniper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I went to the Barrowland. I saw for myself, Lieutenant. That thing is going to break loose. One of its creatures is out already, maybe dogging One-Eye and them. I'm convinced. The Dominator is a step from breaking out, and not half-assed like in Juniper." I turned to the Lady. "Ardath. What was that I figured? I lost track of how long we've been in the Plain. It was about ninety days when we came in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It took you eight days to get here," Elmo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted an eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The menhirs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course. Eight days, then. Away from ninety for a worst-case scenario. Eighty-two days till the Great Barrow opens." I went into more detail about the Great Tragic River floods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lieutenant was not convinced. Neither was Elmo. And you cannot blame them. The Lady weaves crafty, intricate plots. And they were sneaky guys who judged others by themselves. I did not proselytize. I was not wholeheartedly born-again myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was of little consequence whether or not those two believed, anyway. Darling makes the decisions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She signed for everyone to leave but me. I asked Elmo to show Ardath around and find her a place to bunk. He looked at me oddly. Like everyone else, he figured I'd brought me home a girlfriend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had trouble keeping a straight face. All those years they have ridden me because of a few romances written when first we entered the Lady's service. And now I'd brought her home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I figured Darling wanted to talk about Raven. I was not wrong, but she surprised me by signing, "She has sent you to propose an alliance, has she not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Quick little devil. "Not exactly. Though in practice it would amount to that." I went into the details, known and reasoned, of the situation. Signing is not quick work. But Darling remained attentive and patient, not at all distracted by whatever was going on inside her. She took me over the value, or lack thereof, of my document cache. Not once did she ask about Raven. Nor about Ardath, though my friend was on her mind, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She signed, "She is correct in saying that our feud becomes inconsequential if the Dominator rises. My question must be, is the threat genuine or a ploy? We know just how convoluted a scheme she can manage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am sure," I signed in reply. "Because Raven was sure. He had made up his mind before the Lady's people began to suspect. In fact,as far as I can tell, he developed the evidence that convinced them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Goblin and One-Eye. Are they safe?" "As far as I know. I never heard of them being captured." "They should be getting close. Those documents. They are the crux still."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even if they do not contain the secret of her name, but only that of her husband?" "She wants access?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would assume so. I was released for some reason, though I cannot say what the reason behind the reason was." Darling nodded. "So I thought."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yet I am convinced that she is honest in this. That we must consider the Dominator the more dangerous and immediate peril. It should not be too difficult to anticipate most of the ways she could become treacherous." "And there is Raven." Here it comes, I thought. "Yes." "I will reflect, Croaker." "There is not much time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There is all the time in the world, in a way. I will reflect. You and your lady friend translate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt I had been dismissed before we got to why she wanted to see me privately. The woman has a face like stone. You can't tell much about what is going on inside. I moved toward the door slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Croaker," she signed. "Wait."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped. This was it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is she, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn! Ducked around it again. Chills on my part. Guilt. I did not want to lie outright. "Just a woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not a special woman? A special friend?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess she is special. In her way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see. Ask Silent to come in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again I went slowly, nodding. But it was not till I actually started to open the door that she beckoned me back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In accordance with instructions, I sat. She did not. She paced. She signed, "You think I am cold toward great news. You think ill of me because I am not excited that Raven is alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I thought it would shock you. That it would cause you great distress."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shock, no. I am not entirely surprised. Distressed, yes. It opens old wounds and makes them more painful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Puzzled, I watched as she continued to prowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our Raven. He never grew up. Fearless as a stone. Utterly without the handicap of a conscience. Tough. Smart. Hard. Fierce. All those things. Yes? Yes. And a coward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? How can you?…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He runs away. There were machinations around the Limper which pulled his wife in, years ago. Did he try to discover the truth and work it out? He killed people and ran away with the Black Company to kill more people. He abandoned two babies without a word of good-bye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was hot now. She was opening the doors on secrets and spilling stuff of which I had seen only the vaguest glimmering reflections. "Do not defend him. I have had the power to investigate, and I did," she signed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He fled the Black Company. For my sake? As much excuse to avoid entanglement as reason. Why did he salvage me in that village? Because of guilt over children he had abandoned. I was a safe child. And while a child I remained a safe emotional investment. But I did not remain a child, Croaker. And I knew no other man in all those years in hiding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should have known better. I saw how he pushed people away if they tried to get close in any way that was not completely one-sided and under his control. But after the horrible things he did in Juniper I thought I could be the one to redeem him. On the road south, when we were running from the dark danger of the Lady and light danger of the Company, I betrayed my true feelings. I opened the lid on a chest of dreams nurtured from a time before I was old enough to think about men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He became a changed man. A frightened animal caught in a cage. He was relieved when news came that the Lieutenant had appeared with some of the Company. It was not but a matter of hours before he was 'dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suspected then. I think a part of me always knew. And that is why I am not so devastated now as you want. Yes. I know you know I cry myself to sleep sometimes. I cry for a little girl's dreams. I cry because the dreams will not die, though I am powerless to make them come true. I cry because the one thing I truly want I cannot have. Do you understand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about Lady, and Lady's situation, and nodded. I signed nothing back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am going to cry again. Go out. Please. Tell Silent to come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not have to look for him. He was waiting in the conference room. I watched him go inside, wondering if I was seeing things or seeing things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd certainly given me something to think about.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_44" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36407462" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36407464" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Three:
PICNIC <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Put on any deadline and time accelerates. The clockwork of the universe runs off an overwound mainspring. Four days went down the Jakes, zip! And I did not waste much time sleeping.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ardath and I translated. And translated. And translated. She read, translating aloud. I wrote till my hands cramped. Occasionally Silent took over for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spot-checked by slipping in documents already done, especially those both Tracker and I had worked. Not once did I catch a misinterpretation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That fourth morning I did catch something. We were doing one of those lists. This soiree must have been so big that if held today, we'd call it a war. Or at least a riot. On and on. So-and-so of such-and-such, with Lady Who's-is, sixteen titles, four of which made sense. By the time the heralds finished proclaiming everyone, the party must have died or encroaching senility.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, along about the middle of the list I heard a little catch in her breath. Aha! I said to myself. A bolt strikes close. My ears pricked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went on smoothly. Moments later I was not sure I had not imagined it. Reason told me the name that startled her would not be the one she was speaking. She was toddling along at my writing pace. Her eyes would be well ahead of my hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not one of the names that followed clanged any bell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I would go over the list later, just in case, hoping she had deleted something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No such luck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Come afternoon she said, "Break, Croaker. I'm going for tea. You want some?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Maybe a hunk of bread, too." I scribbled another half minute before realizing what had happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What? The Lady herself offering to fetch? Me putting in an order without thinking? I got a case of the nerves. How much was she role-playing? How much pretending for fun? It must be centuries since she got her own tea. If ever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rose, started to follow, halted outside my cell door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fifteen steps down the tunnel, in the grungy, feeble lamplight, Otto had cornered her against the wall. He was talking some shit. Why I had not foreseen the problem I do not know. I doubted that she had. Surely it was not one she faced normally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Otto got pushy. I started to go break it up then vacillated. She might be angered by my interference.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A light step from the other direction. Elmo. He paused. Otto was too single-minded to notice us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better do something," Elmo said. "We don't need that kind of trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did not appear frightened or upset. "I think maybe she can handle it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Otto got a "no" that could not be misinterpreted. But he did not accept it. He tried to lay hands on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He got a ladylike slap for his trouble. Which angered him. He decided to take what he wanted. As Elmo and I moved forward, he disappeared in a flurry of kicks and punches that set him down in the muck on the floor, holding his belly with one arm and that arm with the other. Ardath went on as though nothing had happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "I told you she could handle it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remind me not to overstep myself," Elmo said. Then he grinned and tapped my arm. "Bet she's mean on the horizontal. Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damned if I did not blush. I gave him a foolish grin. It only confirmed his suspicions. What the hell. Anything would have. That is the way those things go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We lugged Otto to my room. I thought he would puke up his guts. But he controlled himself. I checked for broken bones. He was just bruised. "All yours, Elmo," I said, for I knew the old sergeant was rehearsing a few choice words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took Otto by the elbow and said, "Step down to my office, soldier." He started dirt tumbling from the tunnel overheads when he explained the facts of life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Ardath returned she behaved as if nothing had happened. Perhaps she missed us watching. But after half an hour she asked, "Can we take a break? Go outside? Walk?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want me to come?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "We need to talk. Privately."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To tell the truth, whenever I lifted my nose from my work I got a little claustrophobic myself. My venture westward reminded me how good it is to stretch one's legs. "Hungry?" I asked. "Too serious to make a picnic?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked startled, then charmed, by the idea. "Good. Let's do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So we went to the cook and baker and filled a bucket and went topside. Though she did not notice everyone smirking, I did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There is but one door in the Hole. To the conference room, behind which Darling's personal quarters lie. Neither my quarters nor Ardath's had so much as a curtain closure. Folks figured we were off for the privacy of the wide open spaces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dream on. Up there there would be more spectators than down below. They just would not be human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was maybe three hours short of setting when we stepped outside, and it smacked us right in the eyes. Rough. But I expected it. Should have warned her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We strolled up the creek, breathing slightly sagey air and saying nothing. The desert was silent. Not even Father Tree stirred. The breeze was insufficient to sigh in the coral. After a while I said, "Well?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I needed to get out. The walls were closing in. The null made it worse. I feel helpless down there. It preys on the mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We rounded a coral head and encountered a menhir. One of my old buddies, I guess, for he reported, "There are strangers on the Plain, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No lie?" Then: "Which strangers, rock?" But it had nothing more to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're always like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or worse. Well. The null begins to fade. Feel better?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I felt better the moment I stepped outside. That's the gate to Hell. How can you people live like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It isn't much, but it's home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We came to bare earth. She halted. "What's this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Old Father Tree. You know what they think we're up to, down there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. Let them think it. Call it protective coloration. That is your Father Tree?" She indicated Himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's him." I walked on. "How you doing today, old-timer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Must be fifty times I have asked that. I mean, the old guy is remarkable, but just a tree. Right? I did not expect a response. But Father Tree's leaves started tinkling the moment I spoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come back here, Croaker." The Lady's voice was commanding, hard, a little shaken. I turned and marched. "Back to your old self?" From the corner of my eye I caught a shadow in motion, off toward the Hole. I concentrated on a bit of coral and nearby brush. "Keep your voice down. We have an eavesdropper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's no surprise." She spread the ragged blanket she had brought, sat down with her toes right at the edge of the barren. She removed the rag covering the bucket. I settled beside her, positioned so I could watch that shadow. "Do you know what that is?" she asked, nodding at the tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nobody does. It's just Old Father Tree. The desert clans call him a god. We've seen no evidence of that. One-Eye and Goblin were impressed with the fact that he stands almost exactly on the geographical center of the Plain, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I suppose… So much was lost in the fall. I should have suspected… My husband was not the first of his kind. Croaker. Nor the White Rose the first of hers. It is a grand cycle, I believe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've lost me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A very long time ago, even as I measure time, there was another war like that between the Dominator and the White Rose. The light overcame the shadow. But as always, the shadow left its taint on the victors. In order to end the struggle, they summoned a thing from another world, plane, dimension, what-have-you, the way Goblin might conjure a demon, only this thing was an adolescent god. Of sorts. In a sapling avatar. These events were legendary only in my youth, when much more of the past survived, so details are open to question. But it was a summoning of such scope, and such price, that thousands perished and counties were devastated. But they planted their captive god over the grave of their great enemy, where it would keep him enchained. This tree-god would live a million years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean?… Old Father is sitting on something like the Great Barrow?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I did not connect the legends and the Plain till I saw that tree. Yes. This earth constrains something as virulent as my husband. So much suddenly makes sense. It all fits. The beasts. The impossible talking rocks. Coral reefs a thousand miles from the sea. It all leaked through from that other world. The change storms are the tree's dreams."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She rattled on, not so much explaining as putting things together for herself. I gaped and remembered the change storm that caught me on the way west. Was I accursed, to be caught in a god's nightmare?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is crazy," I said, and at the same instant decrypted the shape I had been trying to pry from the shadows, bushes, and coral.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent. Squatting on his hams, motionless as a snake awaiting prey. Silent, who had been everywhere I went the last three days, like an extra shadow, seldom noticed because he was Silent. Well. So much for my confidence that my return with a companion had tickled no suspicions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is a bad place to be, Croaker. Very bad. Tell that deaf peasant wench to move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I did that, I would have to explain why and reveal who gave me the advice. I doubt she would be impressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you're right. Well, it won't matter much longer. Let's eat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened a packet and set out what looked like fried rabbit. But there are no rabbits on the Plain. "For all they got kicked around, their adventure toward Horse improved the larder." I dug in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent remained motionless in the comer of my eye. You bastard, I thought. I hope you're drooling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three pieces of rabbit later I slowed enough to ask, "That about the old-timer is interesting, but does it have any relevance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Father Tree was raising a ruckus. I wondered why. "Are you afraid of him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did not answer. I chucked bones down the creek bank, rose. "Back in a minute." I stomped over to Father Tree. "Old-Timer, you got any seeds? Any sprouts? A little something we could take to the Barrowland to plant on top of our own villain?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Talking to that tree, all those times heading past, was a game. I was possessed of an almost religious awe of its age, but of no conscious belief in it as anything like either the nomads or the Lady claimed. Just a gnarly old tree with weird leaves and a bad temper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Temper?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I touched it, to lean against it while looking up among its bizarre leaves for nuts or seeds, it bit me. Well, not with teeth. But sparks flew. The tips of my fingers stung. When I took them out of my mouth they looked burned. "Damn," I muttered, and backed off a few steps. "Nothing personal, tree. Thought you might want to help out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vaguely, I was aware that a menhir now stood near Silent's lurking place. More appeared around the barren area.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something hit me with the force of windwhale ballast dumped from a hundred feet up. I went down. Waves of power, of thought, beat upon me. I whimpered, tried to crawl toward the Lady. She extended a hand, but would not cross that boundary…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some of that power began to hint at comprehensibility. But it was like being inside fifty minds at once, with them scattered across the world. No. The Plain. And more than fifty minds. As it became more melded, more meshed… I was touching the menhir minds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That all faded. The sledge of power ceased hammering the anvil that was me. I scrambled for the edge of the barren, though I knew that line demarked no true safety. I reached the blanket, caught my breath, finally turned to face the tree. Its leaves tinkled in exasperation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Basically, he told me he's doing what he can, not for our sake but for that of his creatures. That I should go to Hell, leave him alone, quit aggravating him or find my ass in deep shit. Oh, my."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had looked back to see how Silent had taken my encounter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I warned…" She glanced back, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we maybe got trouble. Maybe they recognized you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Almost everyone from the Hole had appeared. They were lining up across the trail. The menhirs were more numerous. Walking trees were forming a circle with us at its center.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And we were unarmed, for Darling was there. We were inside the null again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had on her white linen. She stepped past Elmo and the Lieutenant and came toward me. Silent joined her. Behind her came One-Eye, Goblin, Tracker, and Toadkiller Dog. Those four still had the dust of the trail upon them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had been on the Plain for days. And I had been given no word…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You talk about your trapdoor on your gallows dropping unexpectedly. For fifteen seconds I stood there with my mouth open. Then I asked, "What do we do?" in a soft squeak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She startled me by taking my hand. "I bet and lost. I don't know. They're your people. Bluff. Oh!" Her eyes narrowed. Her stare fixed, became intense. Then a thin smile stretched her lips. "I see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some answers. The shadow of what my husband is about. You have been manipulated more than you know. He anticipated being found out with his weather. Once he had your Raven, he decided to bring your peasant girl to him… Yes. I think… Come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My old comrades did not appear hostile, only puzzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The circle continued to close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady caught my hand again, led me to the base of Old Father Tree. She whispered, "Let there be peace between us while you observe. Ancient One. One comes whom you will remember of old." And to me: "There are many old shadows in the world. Some reach back to the dawn. Not big enough, they seldom draw attention like my husband or the Taken. Soulcatcher had minions who antedated the tree. They were interred with her. I told you I recognized the way those bodies were torn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood there in the bloody light of the fading sun, baffled all to hell. She might as well have been speaking UchiTelle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling, Silent, One-Eye, and Goblin came right to us. Elmo and the Lieutenant halted within a rock's throw. But Tracker and Toadkiller Dog sort of melted into the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is going on?" I signed at Darling, obviously frightened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is what we want to find out. We have been getting disjointed, nonsensical reports from the menhirs since Goblin, One-Eye, and Tracker reached the Plain. On one hand, Goblin and One-Eye confirm everything you told me-till you parted ways."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at my two friends-and saw no friendship there. Their eyes were cold and glassy. Like somebody else had moved in behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Company," Elmo called, without shouting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pair of Taken, aboard boat-carpets, cruised some distance away. They came no closer. The Lady's hand twitched. She controlled herself otherwise. They remained far enough out not to be recognizable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More than one pair of hands is stirring this stew," I said. "Silent, get to the point. Right now you're scaring the crap out of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He signed, "The rumor is strong in the empire that you have sold out. That you have brought someone high-up here, to assassinate Darling. Maybe even one of the new Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could not help grinning. The planters of rumors had not dared tell the whole tale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The grin convinced Silent. He knew me well. Which, I guess, was why he was watching me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling, too, relaxed. But neither One-Eye nor Goblin softened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong with these guys, Silent? They look like zombies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say you sold them out. That Tracker saw you. That if..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bullshit! Where the hell is Tracker? Get that big stupid son-of-a-bitch out here and let him say that to my face!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The light was weakening. The fat tomato of a sun had slipped behind the hills. Soon it would be dark. I felt a creepy tingle against my back. Was the damned tree going to act up?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once I thought of him, I sensed an intense interest upon Old Father Tree's part. Also a sort of dreamy rage coalescing…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, menhirs flickered around all over the place, even across the creek where the brush was dense. A dog yelped. Silent signed something to Elmo. I did not catch it because his back was turned. Elmo trotted toward the turmoil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs worked our way, forming a wall, herding something… Well! Tracker and Toadkiller Dog. Tracker looked vacuously puzzled. The mutt kept trying to scoot between the menhirs. They would not let him. Our people had to stay light on their feet to keep from getting their toes squashed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The menhirs pushed Toadkiller Dog and Tracker into the barren circle. The mongrel let out one long, despairing howl, tucked his tail between his legs, and slunk into Tracker's shadow. They stood about ten feet from Darling. ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Gods," the Lady murmured, and squeezed my hand so hard I almost yelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kernel of a change storm exploded in Old Father Tree's tinkly hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was huge; it was horrible; it was violent. It devoured us all, with such ferocity we could do nothing but endure it. Shapes shifted, ran, changed; yet those nearest Darling stayed exactly the same.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker screamed. Toadkiller Dog unleashed a howl that spread terror like a cancer. And they changed the most, into the identical vile and violent monsters I saw while westward bound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady shouted something lost in the rage of the storm. But I caught its triumphal note. She did know those shapes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had not changed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That seemed impossible. This creature about whom I had been silly for fifteen years could not be the real woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Toadkiller Dog flung himself into the jaws of the storm, hideous fangs bared, trying to reach the Lady. He knew her, too. He meant to finish her while she was helpless inside the null. Tracker shambled after, just as puzzled as the Tracker that looked human had been.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of Father Tree's great branches whipped down. It batted Toadkiller Dog the way a man might bat an attack bunny. Three times Toadkiller Dog gave it the valiant try. Three times he failed. The fourth time, what might have been the grandfather of all lightning bolts met him squarely and hurled him all the way to the creek, where he smouldered and twitched for a minute before rising and howling away into the enemy desert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the same time Tracker-beast went for Darling. He gathered her up and headed west. When Toadkiller Dog-beast went out of the game. Tracker got all the attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Old Father Tree may not be a god, but when he talks he has the voice. Coral reefs crumbled when he spoke. Everyone outside the barren grabbed their ears and screamed. For us who were closer it was less tormenting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do not know what he said. The language was none I knew, and it sounded like none I had ever heard. But it got through to Tracker. He put Darling down and came back, into the teeth of the storm, to stand before the god while that great voice hammered him and violent violet echoed round his misshapen bones. He bowed and did homage to the tree, and then he did change.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The storm died as swiftly as it had began. Everyone collapsed. Even the Lady. But unconsciousness did not come with collapse. By the wan light remaining I saw the circling Taken decide their hour had come. They fell back, gathered velocity, cut a ballistic chord through the null, each loosing four of those thirty-foot spears meant for shattering windwhales. And I sat on the hard ground drooling, hand in hand with their target.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Through sheer will, I guess, the Lady managed to murmur, "They can read the future as well as I." Which made no sense at the time. "I overlooked that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eight shafts arced down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Father Tree responded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two carpets disintegrated beneath their riders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shafts exploded so high that none of their fiery charge reached the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Taken did, though. They plunged in neat arcs into a dense coral reef east of us. Then the sleepiness came. The last thing I recall was that the glaze had left the three eyes of Goblin and One-Eye.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_45" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36408076" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36408078" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Four:
THE QUICKENING <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There were dreams. Endless, horrible dreams. Someday, if I live so long, if I survive what is yet to come, I may record them, for they were the story of a god that is a tree, and of the thing his roots bind…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No. I think not. One life of struggle and horror is enough to report. And this one goes on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady stirred first. She reached over, pinched me. The pain wakened my nerves. She gasped, in a voice so soft I barely heard it, "Get up. Help me. We have to move your White Rose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Made no sense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The null."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was shivering. I thought it was reaction to whatever struck me down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The thing below is of this world. The tree is not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wasn't me shivering. It was the ground. Ever so gently and rapidly. And now I became aware of a sound. Something far away, deep down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I began to get the idea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fear is one hell of a motivator. I got my feet under me. Above, the Tinkle of Old Father Tree beat maddeningly. There was panic in his wind-chimes song.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady rose too. We staggered toward Darling, supporting one another. Each groggy step spiced more life into my sluggish blood. I looked into Darling's eyes. She was aware, yet paralyzed. Her face was frozen halfway between fear and disbelief. We hoisted her up, each slipping an arm around her. The Lady began counting steps. I remember no other labor so damnably great. I do not recall another time when I ran so much on will alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shaking of the earth waxed rapidly into the shudder of passing horsemen, then to a landslide's uproar, then to an earthquake. The ground around Father Tree began to writhe and buckle. A gout of flame and dust blasted upward. The tree tinkled a shriek. Blue lightning rioted in his hair. We pressed even harder in our flight down and across the creek.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something behind us began to scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Images in mind. That which was rising was in agony. Father Tree subjected it to the torments of Hell. But it came on, determined to be free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I no longer looked back. My terror was too great. I did not want to see what an ancient Dominator looked like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We made it. Gods. Somehow the Lady and I got Darling sufficiently far away for Father Tree to regain his full otherworldly power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shriek rose rapidly in pitch and fury; I fell down grasping my ears. And then it went away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a time the Lady said, "Croaker, go see if you can help the others. It's safe. The tree won."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That quickly? Out of that much fury?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Getting my feet under me seemed an all-night job.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A blue nimbus still shimmered among Father Tree's branches. You could feel his aggravation from two hundred yards. Its weight grew as I moved nearer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground around the tree's feet hardly seemed disturbed, considering the violence of moments ago. It looked freshly plowed and harrowed, was all. Some of my friends were partially buried, but no one appeared injured. Everyone was moving at least a little. Faces looked wholly stunned. Except Trucker's. That ugly character had not resumed his fake human form.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was up early, placidly helping the others, dusting their clothing with hearty, friendly slaps. You would not have known that a short time before he had been a deadly enemy. Weird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody needed any help. Except the walking trees and menhirs. The trees had been overturned. The menhirs… Many of them were down, too. And unable to right themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That gave me a chill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got me another shudder when I neared the old tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reaching out of the ground, fumbling at the bark of a root, was a human hand and forearm, long, leathery, greenish, with nails grown to claws then broken and bleeding upon Father Tree. It did not belong to anyone from the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It twitched feebly, now...lue sparks continued to crackle above.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something about that hand stirred the old beast within me. I wanted to run away shrieking. Or seize an axe and mutilate it. I took neither course, for I got the distinct feeling that Father Tree was watching me and glowering more than a little, and maybe blaming me personal-like for wakening the thing to which the hand belonged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going," I said. "Know how you feel. Got my own old monster to keep down." And I backed away, bowing some each three or four steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell was that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I whirled. One-Eye was staring at me. He had a Croaker-is-up-to-another-of-his-crazies look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just chatting with the tree." I looked around. People seemed to be finding their sea legs. Some of the less flustered were starting to right the walking trees. For the fallen menhirs, though, there seemed no hope. Those had gone to whatever reward a sentient stone may expect. Later they would be discovered righted, standing among the other dead menhirs near the creek ford.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I returned to Darling and the Lady. Darling was slow to come around, too groggy to communicate yet. The Lady asked, "Everyone all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Except the guy in the ground. And he came close to making himself well." I described the hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "That's a mistake not likely to be made again soon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent and several others had gathered around, so we could say little that would not sound suspect. I did murmur, "What now?" In the background I heard the Lieutenant and Elmo hollering about getting some torches out to shed a little light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the Taken?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to go after them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hell, no! But we can't have them running around loose in our backyard, either. No telling…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The menhirs will watch them. Won't they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That depends on how pissed the old tree is. Maybe he's ready to let us go to hell in a bucket after this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You might find out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll go," Goblin queaked. He wanted an excuse to put a lot of yards between him and the tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take all night," I said. "Why don't the rest of you help Elmo and the Lieutenant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That got rid of some folks, but not Silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no way I was going to get Silent out of sight of Darling. He had some reservations still.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I chaffed Darling's wrists and did other silly things when time was the only cure. After some minutes I mumbled, "Seventy-eight days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the Lady, "Before long it will be too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted an eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He can't be beaten without her. It won't be long before the hardest ride won't get her there in time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do not know what Silent made of that exchange. I do know that the Lady looked up at him and smiled thinly, with that look she gets when she knows your thoughts. "We need the tree." And: "We didn't get to finish our picnic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went away for a few minutes. When she returned she had the blanket, dirtier than ever, and the bucket. She snagged my hand and headed for the dark. "You watch for the traps," she told me. What the hell was this game?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_46" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36408325" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36408327" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Five:
BARGAIN STRUCK <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Later a broken boat of a moon arose. We did not&lt; go far before it did, for there was not enough starlight to risk much movement. Once the moon did rise, the Lady guided me in a slow circle toward where the Taken had come down. We halted in a clear area, sandy but not dangerous. She spread the blanket. We were outside the null. "Sit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat. She sat. I asked, "What?…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be quiet." She closed her eyes and went inside herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered if Silent had torn himself away from Darling to stalk us. Wondered if my comrades were making crude jokes about us as they labored over the walking trees. Wondered what the hell kind of game had me caught in its toils.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You learned something out of it, anyway, Croaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while I realized she was back from wherever she had gone. "I am amazed," she whispered. "Who would have thought they had the guts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our sky-borne friends. I expected Limper and Whisper, up to their old crimes. But I got Scorn and Blister. Though I might have suspected her, had I thought. Necromancy is her great talent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another round of her thinking aloud. I wondered if she did that often. I am sure she was unaccustomed to having witnesses around if she did. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ignored me. "I wonder if they told the others?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I harkened back, put a few things together. The Lady's divinations about three possible futures and no place in any of them. Maybe that meant there was no place in them for Taken, either. And maybe they figured they could take their futures into their own hands by ridding themselves of their mistress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A light step startled me. But I did not get excited. I just figured Silent had chosen to follow. So I was very surprised when Darling sat down with us, unchaperoned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How had I overlooked the return of the null? Distracted, of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady said, as though Darling had not appeared, "They haven't yet gotten out of the coral. It's very slow going, and they're both injured. And though the coral can't kill them, it can cause a lot of pain. Right now they're lying up, waiting for first light."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So maybe they won't get out at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Darling can read lips."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She knows already."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, I have said a thousand times that the girl is not stupid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think Darling's knowledge was implicit in the position she took. She placed me squarely in the gap between them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh yeah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found myself playing interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trouble is, I cannot record what went back and forth. Because someone tampered with my memories later. I got only one chance to make notes, and those now make no sense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some sort of negotiation took place. I can still conjure a sense of profound astonishment at Darling's willingness to deal. Also an amazement at the Lady for the same reason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached an accommodation. An uneasy one, to be sure, for the Lady henceforth stuck very close and kept me between her and anyone else while she was within the null. Great feeling, knowing you're a human shield… And Darling kept near the Lady to prevent her calling on her power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she did turn her loose once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That is getting ahead, slightly. First we all sneaked back, not letting anyone know there had been summit. The Lady and I returned after Darling, trying to look like we had had an energetic and thorough encounter. I could not help chuckling at some envious looks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady and I went outside the null again next morning, after Darling distracted Silent, One-Eye, and Goblin by sending them to dicker with the menhirs. Father Tree could not make up his mind. We went the other direction. And tracked Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Actually, there was little tracking to do. They were not yet free of the coral. The Lady called upon that power she held over them and they ceased to be Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her patience was exhausted. Maybe she wanted them to serve as an object lesson… In any event, buzzards-real buzzards-were circling before we returned to the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That easy, I thought. For her. And for me, when I tried to kill the Limper, with every damned thing going my way, impossible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She and I went back to translating. So busy did we stay that I did not remain abreast of the news from outside. I was a little vacant, anyway, because she had expunged my memories of the meeting with Darling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyhow, somehow, the White Rose got right with Father Tree. The shaky alliance survived.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One thing I did notice. The menhirs stopped ragging me about strangers on the Plain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They meant Tracker and Toadkiller Dog all the time. And the Lady. Two of three were no longer strangers. No one knew what had become of Toadkiller Dog. Even the menhirs could not trace him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to get Tracker to explain the name. He could not remember. Not even Toadkiller Dog himself. Weird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was the tree's creature now.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_47" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36408504" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36408506" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Six:
SON OF THE TREE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I was nervous. I had trouble sleeping. Days were slipping away. Out west, the Great Tragic was gnawing its banks. A four-legged monster was running to its overlord with news that it had been found out. Darling and the Lady were doing nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven remained trapped. Bomanz remained trapped in the long fires he had called down on his own head. The end of the world tramped ever closer. And nobody was doing anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I completed my translations. And was no wiser than before. It seemed. Though Silent, Goblin, and One-Eye kept fooling with charts of names, cross-indexing, seeking patterns. The Lady watched over their shoulders more than did I. I fiddled with these Annals. I bothered myself with how to phrase a request for the return of those I had lost at Queen's Bridge. I fussed. I grew ever more antsy. People became irritated with me. I began taking moonlight walks to work off my nervous energy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One night the moon was full, a fat orange bladder just scaling the hills to the east. A grand sight, especially with patrolling manias crossing its face. For some reason the desert had a lilac luminescence upon all its edges. The air was chill. There was a dust of powder swirling on the breeze, fallen that afternoon. A change storm flickered far away to the north…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A menhir appeared beside me. I jumped three feet. "Strangers on the Plain, rock?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"None stranger than you, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I get a comedian. You want something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. The Father of Trees wants you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? See you." Heart pounding, I headed toward the Hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another menhir blocked the path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. Since you put it that way." Faking bravery, I headed upstream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They would have herded me. Best accept the inevitable. Less humiliation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind was bitter around the barren, but when I crossed the boundary it was like stepping into summer. No wind at all, though the old tree was tinkling. And heat like a furnace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon had risen enough to flood the barren with light now argent. I approached the tree. My gaze fixed on that hand and forearm, still protruding, still gripping a root, still, it seemed, betraying the occasional feeble twitch. The root had grown, though, and seemed to be enveloping the hand, as a tree used for a line post will envelope a wire tacked to it. I stopped five feet from the tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come closer," it said. In plain voice. In conversational tone and volume.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "Yipe!" and looked for the exits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">About two skillion menhirs surrounded the barren. So much for running away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stand still, ephemeral."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My feet froze to the ground. Ephemeral, eh?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You asked help. You demanded help. You whined and pleaded and begged for help. Stand still and accept it. Come closer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Make up your mind." I took two steps. Another would have me climbing him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have considered. This thing you ephemera fear, in the ground so far from here, would be a peril to my creatures if it rose. I sense no significant strength in those who resist it. Therefore…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hated to interrupt, but I just had to scream. You see, something had me by the ankle. It was squeezing so hard I felt the bones grinding. Crushing. Sorry about that, old-timer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The universe turned blue. I rolled in a hurricane of anger. Lightning roared in Father Tree's branches. Thunder rolled across the desert. I yelled some more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bolts of blue hammered around me, crisping me almost as much as my tormentor. But, at last, the hand turned me loose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to run away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One step and down I went. I kept on, crawling, while Father Tree apologized and tried to call me back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like Hell. I would crawl through the menhirs if I had to…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My mind filled with a waking dream. Father Tree delivering a message direct. Then the earth got quiet, except for the wish as menhirs vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Big hoopla from the direction of the Hole. A whole gang charged out to find the cause of the uproar. Silent reached me first. "One-Eye," I said. "I need One-Eye." He is the only one beside me with medical training. And contrary though he is, I could count on him to take medical instructions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye showed up in a moment, along with twenty others. The watch had reacted quickly. "Ankle," I told him. "Maybe crushed. Somebody get some light up here. And a damned shovel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A shovel? Are you off your gourd?" One-Eye demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just get it. And do something for the pain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo materialized, still buckling buckles. "What happened, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Old Tree wanted to talk. Had the rocks bring me over. Says he wants to help us. Only while I was listening, that hand got ahold of me. Like to ripped my foot off. The racket was the tree saying, 'Now stop that. That's not polite.'"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cut his tongue out after you fix his leg," Elmo told One-Eye. "What did it want, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your ears gone? To help with the Dominator. Said he thought it over. Decided it was in his own best interest to keep the Dominator down. Give me a hand up." One-Eye's efforts were paying dividends. He had sponged one of his wild jungle glops onto my ankle-it had swollen three times normal size already-and the pain was fading.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "I'll break your damned leg if you don't get me up." So he and Silent hoisted me, but supported me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bring them shovels," I said. A half dozen had appeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were entrenching tools, not real ditchdiggers. "You guys insist on helping, get me back over to the tree."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo growled. For a moment I thought Silent might say something. I eyed him expectantly, smiling. I had been waiting twenty-some years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No luck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever vow he had taken, whatever it was that had driven him to abstain from speech, it had put a steel lock on Silent's jaw. I have seen him so pissed he could chew nails, so excited he lost sphincter control, but nothing has shaken his resolution against talking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blue still sparkled in the tree's branches. Leaves tinkled. Moonlight and torchlight mixed into weird shadows the sparks sent dancing… "Around him," I told my body slaves. I had not seen it myself, so it must be beyond that trunk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yep. There it was, out twenty feet from the base of the tree. A sapling. It stood about eight feet tall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye, Silent, Goblin, those guys gobbled and gaped like startled apes. But not old Elmo. "Get a few buckets of water and soak the ground good," he said. "And find an old blanket we can wrap around the roots and the dirt that comes up with them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He caught right on. Damned farmer. "Get me back downstairs," I said. "I want to see this ankle myself, in better light."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Going back, with Elmo and Silent carrying me, we encountered the Lady. She put on a suitably solicitous act, fussing all over me. I had to endure a lot of knowing grins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only Darling knew the truth even then. With maybe a little suspicion on Silent's part.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_48" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36408742" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36408744" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Seven:
SHADOWS IN SHADOWLAND <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no time inside the Barrowland, only shadow and fire, light without source, and endless fear and frustration. From where he stood, snared in the web of his own device, Raven could discern a score of Domination monsters. He could see men and beasts put down in the time of the White Rose to prevent those evils from escaping. He could see the silhouette of the sorcerer Bomanz limned against frozen dragon fire. The old wizard still struggled to take one more step toward the heart of the Great Barrow. Didn't he know that he had failed generations ago?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven wondered how long he had been caught. Had his messages gotten through? Would help come? Was he just marking time till the darkness exploded?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If there was a clock to count the time, it was the growing distress of those set to guard against the darkness. The river gnawed ever closer. There was nothing they could do. No way for them to summon the wrath of the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven thought he would have done things differently had he been in charge back when.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vaguely, Raven recalled some things passing nearby, shades like himself. But he knew not how long ago, or even what they were. Things moved at times, and one could tell nothing certain. The world had a whole different look from this perspective.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Never had he been so helpless, so frightened. He did not like the feeling. Always he had been master of his destiny, dependent upon no one…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was, in that world, nothing to do but think. Too much, too often, his thoughts came back to what it meant to be Raven, to things Raven had done and not done and should have done differently. There was time to identify and at least confront all the fears and pains and weaknesses of the inside man, all of which had created the ice and iron and fearless mask he had presented to the world. All those things which had cost him everything he had valued and which had driven him into the fangs of death again and again, in self-punishment…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Too late. Far too late.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When his thoughts cleared and coagulated and he reached this point, he sent shrieks of anger echoing through the spirit world. And those who surrounded him and hated him for what he might have triggered, laughed and reveled in his torment.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_49" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36408798" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36408801" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Eight:
FLIGHT WEST <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite my exoneration by the tree, I never quite regained my former status with my comrades. Always there was a certain reserve, perhaps as much from envy of my apparent sudden female wealth as from trust slow to heal. I cannot deny the pain it caused me. I had been with those guys since I was a boy. They were my family.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did take some ribbing about getting onto crutches in order to get out of work. But my work would have gone on had I had no legs at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Those damned papers. I had them committed to memory, set to music. And still I did not have the key we sought, nor what the Lady hoped to find. The cross-referencing was taking forever. The spelling of names, in pre-Domination and Domination times, had been free-form. KurreTelle is one of those languages where various letter combinations can represent identical sounds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pain in the damned fundament.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do not know how much Darling told the others. I was not at the Big Meeting. Neither was the Lady. But word came out: The Company was moving out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One day to get ready.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Topside, near nightfall, on my crutches, I watched the windwhales arrive. There were eighteen of them, all summoned by Father Tree. They came with their mantas and a whole panoply of Plain sentient forms. Three dropped to the ground. The Hole puked up its contents.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We began boarding. I got a ration because I had to be lifted, along with my papers, gear, and crutches. The whale was a small one. I would share it with just a few people. The Lady. Of course. We could not be separated now. And Goblin. And One-Eye. And Silent, after a bloody sign battle, for he did not want to be separated from Darling. And Tracker. And the child of the tree, for whom Tracker was guardian and I was in loco parentis. I think the wizards were supposed to keep an eye on the rest of us, though little they could have done had a situation presented itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling, the Lieutenant, Elmo, and the other old hands boarded a second windwhale. The third carried a handful of troops and a lot of gear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We lifted off, joined the formation above.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sunset from five thousand feet is unlike anything you will see from the ground. Unless you are atop a very lonely mountain. Magnificent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With darkness came sleep. One-Eye spelled me under. I still had a good deal of swelling and pain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. We were outside the null. Our whale flew the far flank from Darling. Specifically for the Lady's benefit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even then she did not give herself away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The winds were favorable and we had the blessing of Father Tree. Dawn found us passing over Horse. It was there the truth finally surfaced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Taken came up, all in their fish-carpets, armed to the gills.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Panic noises wakened me. I got Tracker to help me stand. After one glance at the fire of the rising sun, I spied the Taken drifting into guardian positions around our whale. Goblin and them expected an attack. They howled their hearts out. Somehow One-Eye found a way for it all to be Goblin's fault. They went at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But nothing happened. Almost to my surprise, too. The Taken merely maintained station. I glanced at the Lady. She startled me with a wink. Then: "We all have to cooperate, whatever our differences."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin heard that. He ignored One-Eye's ranting for a moment, stared at the Taken. After a bit he looked at the Lady. Really looked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw the light dawn. In a more than normally squeaky voice, and with a truly goofy look, he said, "I remember you." He remembered the one time he had had a sort of direct contact with her. Many years ago, when he tried to contact Soulcatcher, he had caught her in the Tower, in the Lady's presence…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled her most charming smile. The one that melts statues.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin threw a hand in front of his eyes, turned away from her. He looked at me with the most awful expression. I could not help laughing. "You always accused me…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't have to go and do it, Croaker!" His voice climbed the scale till it became inaudible. He sat down abruptly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No lightning bolt splattered him across the sky. After a time he looked up and said, "Elmo is going to crap!" He giggled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo was the most unremitting of them all when it came to reminding me of my romances about the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After the humor went out of it, after One-Eye had been through it, too, and Silent had had his worst fears confirmed, I began to wonder about my friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One and all, they were westward bound on Darling's say-so. They had not been informed, in so many words, that we were allied with our former enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fools. Or was Darling? What happened once the Domi-nator was down and we were ready to go after each other again?…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whoa, Croaker. Darling learned to play cards from Raven. Raven was a cutthroat player.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the Forest of Cloud by nightfall. I wonder what they made of us in Lords. We passed right over. The streets filled with gawkers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Roses passed in the night. Then the other old cities of our early years in the north. There was little talk. The Lady and I kept our heads together, growing more tense as our strange fleet neared its destination and we drew no nearer unearthing the nuggets we sought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long?" I asked. I had lost track of time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forty-two days," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We were in the desert that long?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Time flies when you're having fun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave her a startled look. A joke? Even an old cliche? From her?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hate it when they go human on you. Enemies are not supposed to do that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had been crawling all over me with it for a couple months.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How can you hate?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The weather stayed halfway decent till we got to Forsberg. Then it became clabbered misery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was solid winter up there. Good, briskly refreshing winds loaded up with pellets of powder snow. A nice abrasive for a tender face like mine. A bombardment to clear out the lice on the backs of the whales, too. Everybody cussed and fussed and grumbled and huddled for warmth that dared not be provided by man's traditional ally, fire. Only Tracker seemed untouched. "Don't anything bother that thing?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the oddest voice I ever heard her use, the Lady replied, "Loneliness. If you want to kill Tracker the easy way, lock him up alone and go away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt a chill that had nothing to do with the weather. Whom did I know who had been alone a long time? Who, maybe, just maybe, had begun to wonder if absolute power were worth the absolute price?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew beyond the glimmer of doubt that she had enjoyed every second of pretend on the Plain. Even the moments of danger. I knew that had I had the hair on my ass, there in the last days, I could have become more than a pretend boyfriend. There was a growing and quiet desperation to her in that time as going back to being the Lady approached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some of that I might have appropriated out of ego, for a very critical time faced her. She was under a lot of stress. She knew the enemy we faced. But not all was ego. I think she actually did like me as a person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got a request," I said softly, in the middle of the huddle, banishing thoughts caused by a woman pressed against me. "What?" "The Annals. They're all that's left of the Black Company." Depression had set in fast. "There was an obligation undertaken ages ago, when the Free Companies of Khatovar were formed. If any of us get through this alive, someone should take them back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I do not know if she understood. But: "They're yours," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to explain, but could not. Why take them back? I am not sure where they are supposed to go. Four hundred years the Company drifted slowly north, waxing, waning, turning over its constituents. I have no idea if Khatovar still exists or if it is a city, country, a person, or a god. The Annals from the earliest years either did not survive or went home already. I have seen nothing but digests and excerpts from the earliest century… No matter. Part of the Annalist's undertaking has always been to return the Annals to Khatovar should the Company disband.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The weather worsened. By Oar it seemed actively inimical, and may have been. That thing in the earth would know we were coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just north of Oar all the Taken suddenly dropped away like rocks. "What the hell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Toadkiller Dog," the Lady said. "We've caught up with him. He hasn't reached his master yet." "Can they stop him?" "Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I crutched over to the side of the whale. I do not know what I expected to see. We were up in the snow clouds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a few flashes below. Then the Taken came back. The Lady looked displeased. "What happened?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The monster got crafty. Ran into the null where it brushes the ground. The visibility is too poor to go after him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will it make much difference?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No." But she did not sound entirely confident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The weather worsened. But the whales remained undaunted. We reached the Barrowland. My group went to the Guards compound. Darling's put up at Blue Willy. The boundary of the null fell just outside the compound wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colonel Sweet himself greeted us. Good old Sweet who I thought was dead for sure. He had a gimp leg now. I cannot say he was convivial. But then, it was a time when nobody was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The orderly assigned us was our old friend Case.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_50" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36409077" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36409079" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Forty-Nine:
THE INVISIBLE MAZE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The first time Case appeared he rode the edge of panic. Me doing a kindly uncle act did not soothe him. The Lady doing her bit almost kicked him over the edge into hysteria. Having Tracker lurking around in natural form was no help either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye, of all people, calmed him down. Got him onto the subject of Raven and how Raven was doing, and that did the job.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had my own near case of hysteria. Hours after we put down, before I even got set up for it, the Lady brought Whisper and Limper to double-check our translations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper was supposed to see if any papers were missing. Limper was supposed to plumb his memory of olden times for connections we may have missed. He, it seems, was much into the social whirl of the early Domination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Amazing. I could not imagine that hunk of hatred and human wreckage ever having been anything but nastiness personified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got Goblin to keep an eyeball on those two while I broke away to look in on Raven. Everyone else had given him a look-see already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was there, leaning against a wall, gnawing a fingernail, not looking anything like the great bitch who had tormented the world for lo! so many years. Like I said before, I hate it when they go human. And she was human and then some. Flat-assed scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How is he?" I asked, and when I saw her mood: "What's the matter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's unchanged. They've taken good care of him. Nothing is the matter that a few miracles won't cure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dared raise a questioning eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All the exits are closed. Croaker. I'm headed down a tunnel. My choices grow ever more narrow, and each is worse than the other."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I settled on the chair Case used while watching over Raven, began playing doctor. Needlessly, but I liked to see for myself. Half-distracted, I said, "I expect it's lonely, being queen of the world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slight gasp. "You grow too bold."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Didn't I? "I'm sorry. Thinking out loud. An unhealthy habit known to be the cause of bruises and major hemorrhaging. He does look sound. You think Limper or Whisper will help?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. But every angle has to be tried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about Bomanz?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at her. She seemed honestly puzzled. "The wizard who sprung you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. What about him? What could a dead man contribute? I disposed of my necromancer… You know something I don't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not bloody likely. She had me under the Eye. Nevertheless…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I debated for half a minute, not wanting to give up what might be a whisker of advantage. Then: "I had it from Goblin and One-Eye that he's perfectly healthy. That he's caught in the Barrowland. Like Raven, only body and all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How could that be?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Was it possible she had overlooked this while interrogating me? I guess if you do not ask the right questions, you will not get the right answers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I reflected on all we had done together. I had sketched Raven's reports for her, but she had not read those letters. In fact… The originals, from which Raven drew his story, were in my quarters. Goblin and One-Eye lugged them all the way to the Plain only to see them hauled right back. Nobody had plumbed them because they repeated a story already told…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sit," I said, rising. "Back in two shakes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin fish-eyed me when I breezed in. "Be a few minutes more. Something came up." I scrounged up the case in which Raven's documents had traveled. Only the original Bomanz manuscript resided there now. I fluttered back out, ignored by the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nice feeling, I'll tell you, being beneath their notice. Too bad it was just because they were fighting for their existence. Like the rest of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here. This is the original manuscript. I went over it once, lightly, to check Raven's translation. It looked good to me, though he did dramatize and invent dialog. But the facts and characterizations are pure Bomanz."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She read with incredible swiftness. "Get Raven's version."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out and back, under Goblin's scowl and growl at my departing back: "How long is a few minutes these days. Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went through those swiftly, too. And looked thoughtful when she finished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There may be something here. Actually, something that's not here. Two questions. Who wrote this in the first place? And where is the stone in Oar that the son mentioned?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I assume Bomanz did most of the original and his wife finished it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't he have used first person?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not necessarily. It's possible the literary conventions of the time forbade it. Raven often chided me for interjecting too much of myself into the Annals. He came of a different tradition."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll accept that as a hypothesis. Next question. What became of the wife?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She came of a family from Oar. I would expect her to go back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When she was known as the wife of the man responsible for loosing me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was she? Bomanz was an assumed name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She brushed my objection aside. "Whisper acquired those documents in Lords. As a lot. Nothing connects Bomanz with them except his story. My feeling is that they were accumulated at a later date. But his papers. What were they doing between the time they left here and the time Whisper found them? Have some ancillary items been lost? It's time we consulted Whisper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We, however, included me out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever, a fire was ignited. Before long, Taken were roaring off to faraway places. Within two days Benefice delivered the stone mentioned by Bomanz's son. It proved useless. Some Guards appropriated it and used it for a doorstep to their barracks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught occasional hints of a search progressing from Oar south along the route Jasmine had taken after fleeing from the Barrowland, widowed and shamed. Hard to find tracks that old, but the Taken have remarkable skills.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another search progressed from Lords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the dubious pleasure of hanging around with the Limper while he pointed out all the mistakes we made transliterating UchiTelle and KurreTelle names. Seems not only were spellings not uniform in those days, but neither were alphabets. And some of the folks mentioned were not of UchiTelle or KurreTelle stock, but outsiders who had adapted their names to local usage. Limper busied himself doing things backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One afternoon Silent gave me the high sign. He had been spying over the Limper's shoulder, off and on, with more devotion than I.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had found a pattern.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_51" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36409301" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36409303" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty:
GNOMEN? <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling has a self-discipline that amazes me. All that time she was over there at Blue Willy and not once did she surrender to her desire to see Raven. You could see the ache in her whenever his name came up, but she held off for a month.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she came, as inevitably we knew she must, with the Lady's permission. I tried to ignore her visit entirely. And I made Silent, Goblin, and One-Eye stay away too, though with Silent it was a tight thing. Eventually he did agree; it was a private thing, for her alone, and his interests would not be served by sticking his nose in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I would not go to her, she would come to me. For a while, while everyone else was busy elsewhere. For a hug, to remind her there were those of us who cared. To have some moral support there while she worked out something in her mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She signed, "I cannot deny it now, can I?" And a few minutes later: "I still have the soft place for him. But he will have to earn his way back in." Which was her equivalent of our thinking aloud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt more for Silent at that moment than for Raven. Raven I'd always respected for his toughness and fearlessness, but I'd never really grown to like him. Silent I did like, and did wish well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I signed, "Do not be brokenhearted if you find he is too old to change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wan smile. "My heart was broken a long time ago. No. I have no expectations. This is not a fairy-tale world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was all she had to say. I did not take it to heart till it began to illuminate later events.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She came and she went, in sorrow for the death of dreams, and she came no more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In moments when his needs called him away, we copied everything the Limper left behind and compared it with our own charts. "Oh, hey," I breathed once. "Oh, hey."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here was a lord from a far western kingdom. A Baron Senjak who had four daughters said to vie with one another in their loveliness. One wore the name Ardath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She lied," Goblin whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe," I admitted. "More likely, she didn't know. In fact, she couldn't have known. Nor could anyone else have, really. I still don't see how Soulcatcher could have been convinced that the Dominator's true name was in here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wishful thinking, maybe," One-Eye guessed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said. "You could tell she knew what she had. She just didn't know how to dig it out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just like us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ardath is dead," I said. "That leaves three possibilities. But if push comes to shove, we only get one shot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Catalog what else we know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soulcatcher was one sister. Name not yet known. Ardath may have been the Lady's twin. I think she was older than Catcher, though they were children together and not separated by many years. Of the fourth sister we know nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent signed, "You have four names, given and family. Consult the genealogies. Find who married whom."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I groaned. The genealogies were over at Blue Willy. Darling had had them loaded onto the cargo whale with everything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time was short. The work daunted me. You do not go into those genealogies with a woman's name and find anything easily. You have to look for a man who married the woman you are seeking and hope the recorder thought enough of her to mention her name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are we going to manage all this?" I wondered. "With me the only one who can decipher these chicken tracks?" Then a brilliant idea. If I say so myself. "Tracker. We'll put Tracker on it. He don't have nothing to do but watch that sapling. He can do that over at Blue Willy and read old books at the same time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Easier said than done. Tracker was far from his new master. Getting the message into his pea brain was a major undertaking. But once that had been accomplished there was no stopping him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One night, as I snuggled down under the covers, she appeared in my quarters. "Up, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going flying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh? No disrespect, but it's the middle of the night. I had a hard day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So you don't argue when the Lady commands.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_52" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36409441" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36409443" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-One:
THE SIGN <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A freezing rain was falling. Everything was glazed with crystal ice. "Looks like a warm snap," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was without a sense of humor that night. It took an effort to overlook my remark. She led me to a carpet. It had a crystal dome covering the forward seats. That was a feature recently added to Limper's craft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady used some small magic to melt the ice off. "Make sure it's sealed tightly," she told me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looks good to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We lifted off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly I was on my back. The nose of the fish pointed at unseen stars. We climbed at a dreadful rate. I expected momentarily to be so high I could not breathe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We got that high. And higher. We broke through the clouds. And I understood the significance of the dome.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It kept in breathable air. Meaning the windwhales could no longer climb higher than the Taken. Always chipping away, the Lady and her gang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what the hell was this all about?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There." A sigh of disappointment. A confirmation that a shadow darkened hope. She pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw it. I knew it, for I had seen it before, in the days of the long retreat that ended in the battle before the Tower. The Great Comet. Small, but no denying its unique silver scimitar shape. "It can't be. It isn't due for twenty years. Celestial bodies don't change their cycles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They don't. That's axiomatic. So maybe the axiom makers are wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She-tilted the carpet down. "Note it in your writings, but don't mention it otherwise. Our peoples are troubled enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right." That comet has a hold on men's minds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Back down into the yuck of a Barrowland night. We came in over the Great Barrow itself, only forty feet up. The damned river was close. The ghosts were dancing in the rain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sloshed into the barracks in a numb state, checked the calendar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twelve days to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old bastard was probably out there laughing it up with his favorite hound, Toadkiller Dog.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_53" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36409527" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36409529" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Two:
NO SURPRISE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Something that lies down in that mind below the mind would not let me be. I tossed and turned, wakened, fell asleep, and finally, in the wee hours, it surfaced. I got up and shuffled through papers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found that piece that made the Lady gasp once, ploughed through that interminable guest list till I found a Lord Senjak and his daughters Ardath, Credence, and Sylith. The youngest, one Dorotea, the scribbler noted, could not attend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ha!" I crowed. "The search narrows."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no more information, but that was a triumph. Assuming the Lady was indeed a twin and Dorotea was the youngest and Ardath dead, the odds were now fifty-fifty. A woman named Sylith or a woman named Credence. Credence? That is how it translated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was so excited I got no more sleep. Even that damned off-schedule comet fled my thoughts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But excitement perished between the grinding stones of time. Nothing came from those Taken tracing Bomanz's wife and papers. I suggested the Lady go to the source himself. She was not prepared for the risk. Not yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our old and stupid friend Tracker produced another gem four days after I eliminated sister Dorotea. The big goof had been reading genealogies day and night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent came back from Blue Willy wearing such a look I knew something good had happened. He dragged me outside, toward town, into the null. He gave me a slip of damp paper. In Tracker's simple style, it said:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three sisters were married. Ardath married twice, first a Baron Kaden ofDartstone, who died in battle. Six years later she married Erin NoFather, an unlanded priest of the god Vancer, from a town called Slinger, in the kingdom of Vye. Credence married Barthelme of Jaunt, a renowned sorcerer. It is in my memory that Barthelme of Jaunt became one of the Taken, but my memory is not trustworthy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No lie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dorotea married Raft, Prince-in-Waiting, of Start. Sylith never married.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker then proved that, slow though he might be, an occasional idea did perk through his murk of a mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The death rolls reveal that Ardath and her husband, Erin NoFather, an unlanded priest of the god Vancer, from a town called Slinger, in the kingdom of Vye, were slain by bandits while traveling between Lathe and Ova. My untrustworthy memory recalls that this took place just months before the Dominator proclaimed himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sylith drowned in a flood of the River Dream some years earlier, swept away before countless witnesses. But no body was found.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had an eyewitness. It never occurred to me to think of Tracker that way, though the knowledge had been there for the recognition. Maybe we could figure some way to get at his memories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Credence perished in the fighting when the Dominator and Lady took Jaunt in the early days of their conquests. There is no record of Dorotea's death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn," I said. "Old Tracker is worth something after all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent signed, "It sounds confused, but reason should provide something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More than something. Without drawing charts, connecting all those women, I felt confident enough to say, "We knew Dorotea as Soulcatcher. We know Ardath wasn't the Lady. Odds are, the sister who engineered the ambush that killed her…" There was something missing still. If I just knew which were twins…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In response to my question, Silent signed, "Tracker is looking for birth records." But he was unlikely to score again. Lord Senjak was not KurreTelle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One of the purported dead didn't die. I'd put my money on Sylith. Assuming Credence was killed because she recognized a sister who was supposed to be dead when the Dominator and Lady took Jaunt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bomanz mentions a legend about the Lady killing her twin. Is that this ambush? Or something more public?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who knows?" I said. It really did get confusing. For a moment I wondered if it mattered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady called an assembly. Our original estimate of time available now appeared overly optimistic. She told us, "We appear to have been misled. There is nothing in Catcher's documents to betray my husband's name. How she reached that assumption is beyond us now. If documents are missing, we cannot be sure. Unless news comes from Lords or Oar soon, we can forget that avenue. It's time to consider alternatives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I scribbled a note, asked Whisper to pass it to the Lady. The Lady read it, then looked at me with narrowed, thoughtful eyes. "Erin NoFather," she read aloud. "An unlanded priest of the god Vancer, from Slinger, in the kingdom of Vye. This, from our amateur historian. What you found is less interesting than the fact that you found it. Croaker. That news is five hundred years old. It was worthless then. Whoever Erin NoFather was before he left Vye, he did an absolute job of eliminating traces. By the time he became interesting enough to have his antecedents investigated, he had obliterated not only Slinger but every person to have lived in that village during his lifetime. In later years he went even farther, wasting all Vye. Which is why the notion that those papers might contain his true name constituted such a surprise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt about half-size, and stupid. I should have known they would have tried to unmask the Dominator before. I had surrendered some small advantage for nothing. So much for the spirit of cooperation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the new Taken-I cannot keep them straight, for they all dress the same-arrived soon afterward. He or she gave the Lady a small carved chest. The Lady smiled when she opened it. "There were no papers that survived. But there were these." She dumped some odd bracelets. "Tomorrow we go after Bomanz."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone else knew. I had to ask. "What are they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The amulets made for the Eternal Guard in the time of the White Rose. So they could enter the Barrowland without hazard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The resulting excitement surpassed my understanding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The wife must have carried them away. Though how she laid hands on them is a mystery. Break this up now. I need time to think." She shooed us like a farm wife shooes chickens.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I returned to my room. The Limper floated in behind me. He said nary a word, but ducked into the documents again. Puzzled, I looked over his shoulder. He had lists of all the names we had unearthed, written in the alphabets of the languages whence they sprang. He seemed to be playing with both substitution codes and numerology. Baffled, I went to my bed, turned my back on him, faked sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As long as he was there, I knew, sleep would evade me.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_54" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36409703" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36409705" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Three:
THE RECOVERY <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It resumed snowing that night. Real snow, half a foot an hour and no letup. The racket raised by the Guards as they strove to clear it from doorways and the carpets wakened me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had slept despite the Limper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An instant of terror. I sat bolt upright. He remained at his task.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The barracks was overly warm, holding the heat because it was all but buried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a bustle despite the weather. Taken had arrived while I slept. Guards not only dug but hurried about other tasks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye joined me for a rude breakfast. I said, "So she's going ahead. Despite the weather."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It won't get any better, Croaker. That guy out there knows what's going on." He looked grim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can count. Croaker. What do you expect from a guy with a week to live?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My stomach tightened. Yes. I had been able to avoid thoughts of the sort so far, but… "We've been in tight places before. Stair of Tear. Juniper. Beryl. We made it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I keep telling myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How's Darling?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Worried. What do you think? She's a bug between hammer and anvil."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Lady has forgotten her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snorted. "Don't let your special dispensation erode your common sense, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sound advice," I admitted. "But unnecessary. A hawk couldn't watch her more closely."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You going out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't miss it. Know where I can get some snow-shoes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned. For an instant the devil of years past peeped forth. "Some guys I know-mentioning no names, you know how it is-swiped a half dozen pairs from the Guard Armory last night. Duty man fell asleep on post."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grinned and winked. So. I was not seeing enough of them to keep up, but they were not just sitting around and waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Couple pairs went off to Darling, just in case. Got four pair left. And just a smidgen of a plan."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. You'll see. Brilliant, if I do say so myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are the shoes? When are you going?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Meet us in the smokehouse after the Taken get off the ground."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several guards came in to eat, looking exhausted, grumbling. One-Eye departed, leaving me in deep thought. What were they plotting?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The most carefully laid plans… Like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady marched into the mess hall. "Get your gloves and coats, Croaker. It's time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gaped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you coming?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But…" I flailed around for an excuse. "If we go, somebody will have to do without a carpet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave me an odd look. "Limper is staying here. Come. Get your clothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did so, in a daze, passing Goblin as we went outside. I gave him a baffled little headshake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment before we lifted off the Lady reached back, offering me something. "What's this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better wear it. Unless you want to go in without an amulet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did not look like much. Some cheap jaspar and jade on brittle leather. Yet when I secured the buckle around my wrist, I felt the power in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We passed over the rooftops very low. They were the only visual guides available. Out on the cleared land there was nothing. But being the Lady, she had other resources.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We took a turn around the bounds of the Barrowland. On the river side we descended till the water lay but a yard beneath us. "Lot of ice," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did not reply. She was studying the shoreline, now within the Barrowland itself. A sodden section of bank collapsed, revealing a dozen skeletons. I grimaced. In moments they were covered with snow or swept away. "Just about on schedule, I'd guess," I said. "Uhm." She moved on around the perimeter. A couple times I glimpsed other carpets circling. Something below caught my eye. "Down there!" "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thought I saw tracks." "Maybe. Toadkiller Dog is nearby." Oh, my.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Time," she said, and turned toward the Great Barrow. We put down at the mound's base. She piled out. I joined her. Other carpets descended. Soon there were four Taken, the Lady, and one scared old physician standing just yards from the despair of the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the Taken brought shovels. Snow began to fly. We took turns, nobody exempt. It was a bitch of a job, and became more so when we reached the buried scrub growth. It got worse when we reached frozen earth. We had to go slow. The Lady said Bomanz was barely covered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It went on, it seemed, forever. Dig and dig and dig. We uncovered a withered humanoid thing the Lady assured us was Bomanz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My shovel clicked against something my last turn. I bent to examine it, thinking it a rock. I brushed frosty earth away…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And dived out of that hole, whirled, pointed. The Lady went down. Laughter drifted upward. "Croaker found the dragon. His jaw, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept on retreating, toward our carpet…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something huge vaulted it, trailing a basso snarl. I flung myself to one side, into snow that swallowed me. There were cries, growls… When I emerged it was over. I glimpsed Toadkiller Dog clearing the carpet in retreat, more than a little scarred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady and Taken had been ready for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't somebody warn me?" I whined.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He could have read you. I'm just sorry we didn't cripple him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two Taken, probably of the male vice, lifted Bomanz. He was stiff as a statue, yet there was that about him which even I could sense. A spark, or something. No one could have mistaken him for dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Into a carpet he went.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The anger in the mound had been a trickle, barely sensed, like the buzzing of a fly across a room. It smacked us now, one hard hammer stroke reeking madness. Not an iota of fear informed it. That thing had an absolute confidence in its ultimate victory. We were but delays and irritants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The carpet carrying Bomanz departed. Then another. I settled into my place and willed the Lady to hurry me away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A spate of snarling and yelling broke out toward town. Brilliant light slashed through the snowfall. "I knew it," I growled, one fear realized. Toadkiller Dog had found One-Eye and Goblin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another carpet lifted. The Lady boarded ours, closed the dome. "Fools," she said. "What were they doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did not see. Her attention was on the carpet, which was not behaving as it should. Something seemed to pull it toward the Great Barrow. But I saw. Tracker's ugly face passed at eye level. He carried the son of the tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Toadkiller Dog reappeared, stalking Tracker. Half the monster's face was gone. He ran on three legs. But he was plenty enough to take Tracker apart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady saw Toadkiller Dog. She spun the carpet. Systematically she loosed its eight thirty foot shafts. She did not miss. And yet…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dragging the missiles, engulfed in flame, Toadkiller Dog crawled into the Great Tragic River. He went under and did not come up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That'll keep him out of the way for a while."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not ten yards away, oblivious, Tracker was clearing the peak of the Great Barrow so he could plant his sapling. "Idiots," the Lady murmured. "I'm surrounded by idiots. Even the Tree is a dolt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She would not explain. Neither did she interfere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sought traces of One-Eye and Goblin as we flew homeward. I saw nothing. They were not in the compound. Of course. There had not yet been time for them to snowshoe back. But when they had not appeared an hour later, I began having trouble concentrating on the reanimation of Bomanz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That started with repeated hot baths, both to warm his flesh and to cleanse him. I did not get to see the preliminaries. The Lady kept me with her. She did not look in till the Taken were ready for the final quickening. And that was unimpressive. The Lady made a few gestures around Bomanz-who looked pretty moth-eaten-and said a few words in a language I did not understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Why do sorcerers always use languages nobody understands? Even Goblin and One-Eye do it. Each has confided that he cannot follow the tongue the other uses. Maybe they make it up?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her words worked. That old wreck came to life grittily determined to push forward against a savage wind. He marched three steps before registering his altered circumstances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He froze. He turned slowly, face collapsing into despair. His gaze locked on the Lady. Maybe two minutes passed. Then he looked the rest of us over and considered his surroundings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You explain, Croaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does he speak…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forsberger hasn't changed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I faced Bomanz, a legend come to life. "I am Croaker. A military physician by profession. You are Bomanz…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His name is Seth Chalk, Croaker. Let us establish that immediately."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are Bomanz, whose true name may be Seth Chalk, a sorcerer of Oar. Nearly a century has passed since you attempted to contact the Lady."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give him the whole story." The Lady used a Jewel Cities dialect likely to be outside Bomanz's capacity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I talked till I was hoarse. The rise of the Lady's empire. The threat defeated at the battle at Charm. The threat defeated at Juniper. The present threat. He said not a word in all that time. Not once did I see in him the fat, almost obsequious shopkeeper of the story.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His first words were: "So. I did not entirely fail." He faced the Lady. "And you remain tainted by the light, Not-Ardath." He faced me again. "You will take me to the White Rose. As soon as I have eaten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nary a protest from the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ate like a fat little shopkeeper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady herself helped me back into my wet winter coat. "Don't dawdle," she cautioned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hardly had we departed when Bomanz seemed to diminish. He said, "I'm too old. Don't let that back there fool you. An act. Going to play with the big boys, you have to act. What'll I do? A hundred years. Less than a week to redeem myself. How will I get a handle on things that quickly? The only principal I know is the Lady."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why did you think she was Ardath? Why not one of the other sisters?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There was more than one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four." I named them. "From your papers I've established that Soulcatcher was the one named Dorotea…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My papers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So called. Because the story of you wakening the Lady was prominent among them. It's always been assumed, till a few days ago, that you assembled them and your wife carried them away when she thought you had died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bears investigation. I collected nothing. I risked nothing but a map of the Barrowland."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know the map well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I must see those papers. But first, your White Rose. Meanwhile, tell me about the Lady."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had trouble staying with him. He zigged and zagged, spraying ideas. "What about her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There is a detectable tension between you. Of enemies who are friends, perhaps. Lovers who are enemies? Opponents who know one another well and respect one another. If you respect her, it's with reason. It's impossible to respect total evil. It cannot respect itself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wow. He was right. I did respect her. So I talked a bit. And my theme was, when I noticed it, that she did remain tainted by the light. "She tried hard to be a villain. But when faced by real darkness-the thing under the mound-her weakness started to show."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is only slightly less difficult for us to extinguish the light within us than it is for us to conquer the darkness. A Dominator occurs once in a hundred generations. The others, like the Taken, are but imitations."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you stand against the Lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hardly. I suspect my fate is to become one of the Taken when she finds time." He'd landed on his feet, this old boy. He halted. "Lords! She's strong!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your Darling. An incredible absorption. I feel helpless as a child."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stamped into Blue Willy, entering through a second-floor window. The snow was banked that high.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye, Goblin, and Silent were down in the common room with Darling. The first two looked a bit shopworn. "So," I said. "You guys made it. I thought Toadkiller Dog had you for lunch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No problem at all," One-Eye said. "We…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, we?" Goblin demanded. "You were worthless as tits on a boar hog. Silent…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up. This is Bomanz. He wants to meet Darling."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Bomanz?" Goblin squeaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The very one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their meeting was about a three-question interview. Darling took charge immediately. When he realized Darling was leading him, Bomanz broke it off. He told me, "Next step. I read my alleged autobiography."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not yours?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unlikely. Unless my memory serves me worse than I suppose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We returned to the compound in silence. He seemed reflective. Darling has that impact on those who meet her for the first time. She is just Darling to those of us who have known her all along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz worked his way through the original manuscript, occasionally asking about specific passages. He was unfamiliar with the UchiTelle dialect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You had nothing to do with that, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. But my wife was the primary source. Question. Was the girl Snoopy traced?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is the one to follow up. She is the only survivor of significance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll tell the Lady. But there isn't time for it. In a few days Hell is going to break loose out there." I wondered if Tracker had gotten the sapling planted. Much good it would do when the Great Tragic reached the mound. Brave move but dumb, Tracker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The effects of his effort were apparent soon, though. When I got around to relaying Bomanz's suggestion about Snoopy, the Lady asked, "Have you noted the weather?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's getting better. The sapling stilled my husband's ability to shape it. Too late, of course. It will be months before the river falls."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was depressed. She merely nodded when I told her what Bomanz had to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it that bad? Are we defeated before we enter the lists?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. But the price of victory escalates. I do not want to pay that price. I don't know if I can."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood there perplexed, awaiting an expansion upon the subject. None was forthcoming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a time she said, "Sit, Croaker." I sat in the chair she indicated, next to a roaring fire diligently tended by the soldier Case. After a time she sent Case away. But still nothing was forthcoming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Time tightens the noose," she murmured at one point, and at another, "I'm afraid to unravel the knot."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_55" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36410243" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36410245" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Four:
AN EVENING AT HOME <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Days passed. No one of any especial allegiance gained any apparent ground. The Lady canceled all investigations. She and the Taken conferred often. I was excluded. So was Bomanz. The Limper participated only when ordered out of my quarters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave up trying to sleep there. I moved in with Goblin and One-Eye. Which shows how much the Taken distressed me. Sharing a room with those two is like living amidst an ongoing riot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven, as ever, changed not the least and remained mostly forgotten by all but his loyal Case. Silent did look in occasionally, on Darling's behalf, but without enthusiasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only then did I realize that Silent felt more toward Darling than loyalty and protectiveness, and he was without means of expressing those feelings. Silence was enforced upon him by more than a vow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could not learn which sisters were twins. As I anticipated, Tracker found nothing in the genealogies. A miracle he found what he did, the way sorcerers cover their back trails.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin and One-Eye tried hypnotizing him, hoping to plumb his ancient memories. It was like stalking ghosts in a heavy fog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Taken moved to stall the Great Tragic. Ice collected along the western bank, turning the force of the current. But they overtinkered and a gorge developed. It threatened to raise the river level. A two-day effort won us maybe ten hours.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally large tracks appeared around the Barrowland, soon vanished beneath drifting snow. Though the skies cleared, the air grew colder. The snow neither melted nor crusted. The Taken engineered that. A wind from the east stirred the snow continuously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case stopped by to tell me, "The Lady wants you, sir. Right away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I broke off playing three-handed Tonk with Goblin and One-Eye. So far had things slowed-except the flow of time. There was nothing more we could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sir," said Case as we stepped out of hearing of the others, "be careful." "Uhm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's in a dark mood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks." I dallied. My own mood was dark enough. It did not need to feed on hers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her quarters had been refurnished. Carpets had been brought in. Hangings covered the walls. A settee of sorts stood before the fireplace, where a fire burned with a comforting crackle. The atmosphere seemed calculated. Home as we dream it to be rather than as it is.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was seated on the couch. "Come sit with me," she said, without glancing back to see who had come in. I started to take one of the chairs. "No. Here, by me." So I settled on the couch. "What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes were fixed on something far away. Her face said she was in pain. "I have decided."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" I waited nervously, not sure what she meant, less sure I belonged there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The choices have narrowed down. I can surrender and become another of the Taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was a Jess dire penalty than I had expected. "Or?" "Or I can fight. A battle that can't be won. Or won only in its losing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you can't win, why fight?" I would not have asked that of one of the Company. With my own I would have known the answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hers was not ours. "Because the outcome can be shaped. I can't win. But I can decide who does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or at least make sure it isn't him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A slow nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her bleak mood began to make sense. I have seen it on the battlefield, with men about to undertake a task likely to be fatal but which must be hazarded so others will not perish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To cover my reaction, I slipped off the couch and added three small logs to the fire. But for our moods it would have been nice there in the crispy heat, watching the dancing flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We did that for a while. I sensed that I was not expected to talk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It begins at sunup," she said at last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The final conflict. Laugh at me. Croaker. I'm going to try to kill a shadow. With no hope of surviving myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Laugh? Never. Admire. Respect. My enemy still, in the end unable to extinguish that last spark of light and so die in yet another way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All this while she sat there primly, hands folded in her lap. She stared into the fire as if certain that eventually it would reveal the answer to some mystery. She began to shiver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This woman for whom death held such devouring terror had chosen death over surrender.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What did that do for my confidence? Nothing good. Nothing good at all. I might have felt better had I seen the picture she did. But she did not talk about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a very, very soft, tentative voice, she asked, "Croaker? Will you hold me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What? I didn't say it, but I sure as hell thought it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't say anything. Clumsily, uncertainly, I did as she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She began crying on my shoulder, softly, quietly, shaking like a captive baby rabbit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a long time before she said anything. I did not presume.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one has done this since I was a baby. My nurse…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another long silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never had a friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another long gap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm scared, Croaker. And alone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. We'll all be with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not for the same reasons." She fell silent for good then. I held her a long time. The fire burned down and its light faded from the room. Outside, the wind began to howl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I finally thought she had fallen asleep, and started to disengage myself, she clung more tightly, so I stilled and continued to hold her, though half the muscles in my body ached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually she peeled herself away, rose, built up the fire. I sat. She stood behind me a while, staring at the flames. Then she rested a hand on my shoulder a moment. In a faraway voice she said, "Good night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went into another room. I sat for ten or fifteen minutes before putting on a last log and shuffling back into the real world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must have worn an odd look. Neither Goblin nor One-Eye aggravated me. I rolled into my bedroll, back to them, but did not fall asleep for a long time.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_56" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36410463" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36410465" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Five:
OPENING ROUNDS <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I wakened startled. The null! I had been out of it so much it disturbed me by its presence. I rolled out hurriedly, discovered I was alone in the room. Not only there, but in the barracks, practically. There were a few Guards in the mess hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was not yet up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind still howled around the building. There was a marked chill in the air, though the fires were burning high. I shoveled boiled oats in and wondered what I was missing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady entered as I finished. "There you are. I thought I'd have to leave without you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever her problems the night before, she was brisk and confident and ready for business now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The null faded while I got my coat. I dropped by my own room momentarily. The Limper was there still. I left frowning thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Into the carpet. Full crew today. Every carpet was fully crewed and armed. But I was more interested in the absence of snow between town and the Barrowland., That howling wind had blown it away. We went up as it became light enough to see. The Lady took the carpet up till the Barrowland resembled a map taking shape as shadows vaporized. She set us to cruising in a tight circle. The wind, I noted, had faded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Great Barrow looked ready to collapse into the river. "One hundred hours," she said, as though divining my thoughts. So we were reduced to counting hours. I looked around the horizon. There. "The comet." "They can't see it from the ground. But tonight… it'll have to cloud up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Below, tiny figures scurried around one quarter of the cleared area. The Lady unrolled a map similar to Bpmanz's. "Raven," I said. "Today. If we're lucky." "What're they doing down there?" "Surveying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More than that was happening. The Guards were out in full battle regalia, forming an arc around the Barrowland. Light siege machines were being assembled. But some men were, indeed, surveying and setting up rows of lances flying colored pennons. I did not ask why. She would not explain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dozen windwhales hovered to the east, beyond the river. I had thought them long departed. The sky there burned with dawn's conflagration. "First test," the Lady said. "A feeble monster." She frowned in concentration. Our carpet began to glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A white horse and white rider came from the town. Darling. Accompanied by Silent and the Lieutenant. Darling rode into an aisle marked by pennons. She halted beside the last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The earth erupted. Something that might have been first cousin to Toadkiller Dog, and even more closely related to an octopus, burst into the light. It raced over the Barrowland, toward the river, away from the null.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling galloped toward town.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wizards' fury rained from the carpets. The monster was a cinder in seconds. "One," the Lady said. Below, men began another aisle of pennons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And so it went, slowly and deliberately, all the day long. Most of the Dominator's creatures broke for the river. The few that charged the other way encountered a barricade of missile fire before succumbing to the Taken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there time to eliminate them all?" I asked as the sun was setting. I had been itchy for hours, sitting in one place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More than enough. But it won't stay this easy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I probed, but she would not expand upon what she had said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked slick to me. Just pick them off and keep picking them off, and go for the big guy when they were all gone. Tough he might be, but what could he do enveloped in the null?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I staggered into the barracks, to my room, I found the Limper still at work. The Taken need less rest than we mortals, but he had to be on the edge of collapse. What the hell was he doing?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was Bomanz. He had not appeared today. What was he trying to slip up his sleeve?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was eating a supper very much like breakfast when Silent materialized. He settled opposite me, clutching a bowl of mush as if it were an alms bowl. He looked pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How was it for Darling?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He signed, "She almost enjoyed it. She took chances she should not have. One of those things almost got to her. Otto was hurt fending it off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He need me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One-Eye managed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you doing here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is the night to bring Raven out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh." Again I had forgotten Raven. How could I number myself among his friends when I seemed so indifferent to his fate?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent followed me to where I was staying with One-Eye and Goblin. Those two joined us shortly. They were subdued. They had been assigned major roles in the recovery of our old friend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I worried more about Silent. The shadow had passed over him. He was fighting it. Would he be strong enough to win?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Part of him did not want Raven rescued.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Part of me did not, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A very tired Lady came to ask, "Will you participate in this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I'd just get in the way. Let me know when it's done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave me a hard look, then shrugged and went away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Very late a feeble One-Eye wakened me. I bolted up. "Well?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We managed. I don't know how well. But he's back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How was it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rough." He crawled into his bedroll. Goblin was in his already, snoring. Silent had come with them. He was against the wall, wrapped in a borrowed blanket, cutting logs. By the time I wakened fully One-Eye was sawing with the rest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In Raven's room there was nothing to see but Raven snoring and Case looking worried. The crowd had cleared out, leaving a ripe stench behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He seem all right?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case shrugged. "I'm no doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am. Let me look him over."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pulse strong enough. Breathing a little fast for a sleeper, but not disturbingly so. Pupils dilated. Muscles tense. Sweaty.-"Don't look like much to worry about. Keep feeding him broth. And get hold of me as soon as he's talking. Don't let him get up. His muscles will be clay. He might hurt himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case nodded and nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I returned to my bedroll, lay there a long time alternately wondering about Raven and about the Limper. A lamp still burned in my former quarters. The last of the old Taken still pursued his monomaniacal quest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven became the greater worry. He was going to demand an accounting of our care for Darling. And I was in a mood to challenge his right.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_57" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36410686" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36410688" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Six:
TIME FADING <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dawn comes early when you wish it would not. The hours flash when you want them to drag. The following day was another of executions. The only thing unusual was that the Limper came out to watch. He seemed satisfied we were doing things right. He returned to my quarters-where he sacked out in my bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My evening check on Raven showed little change. Case reported that he had come near wakening several times and was mumbling in his sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Keep pouring soup down him. And don't be afraid to yell if you need me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could not sleep. I tried roaming the barracks, but near silence reigned. A few sleepless Guards haunted the mess hall. They fell silent at my arrival. I thought about going over to Blue Willy. But I would find no better reception there. I was on everybody's list.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It could do nothing but get worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew what the Lady meant about lonely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wished I had the nerve to visit her now that I needed a hug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I returned to my bedroll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did fall asleep this time; they had to threaten mayhem to get me up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We polished off the last of the Dominator's pets before noon. The Lady ordered a holiday for the remainder of the day. Come next morning we were to rehearse for the big show. She guessed we had about forty-eight hours before the river opened the tomb. Time to rest, time to practice, and ample time to get in the first whack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That afternoon Limper went out and flew around a while. He was in high spirits. I seized the opportunity to visit my quarters and poke around, but all I could find were a few black wood shavings and a hint of silver dust, and barely enough of either to leave traces. He had cleaned up hastily. I did not touch. No telling what curiosities might occur if I did. Otherwise, I learned nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The practice for the Event was tense. Everyone turned out, including Limper and Bomanz, who had kept so low most everyone had forgotten him. The wind whales ranged above the river. Their manias soared and swooped. Darling charged the Great Barrow down a prepared aisle, stopping just short of far enough. The Taken and Guards stood to their respective weapons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked good. Looked like it would work. So why was I convinced we were in for big trouble?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moment our carpet touched down Case was beside it. "I need your help," he told me, ignoring the Lady. "He won't listen to me. He keeps trying to get up. He fell on his face already twice." I glanced at the Lady. She gave me a go-ahead nod. Raven was seated on the edge of his bed when I arrived. "I hear you're being a pain in the ass. What's the point of pulling your butt out of the Barrowland if you're going to commit suicide?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His gaze rose slowly. He did not appear to recognize me. Oh, damn, I thought. His mind is gone. "He talked any, Case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some. He don't always make sense. He don't realize how long it's been, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we should restrain him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Startled, we looked at Raven. He knew me now. "No restraints, Croaker. I'll behave." He flopped onto his back, smiling. "How long, Case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell him the story," I said. "I'm going to go whip up some medicine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just wanted away from Raven. He looked worse with his soul restored. Cadaverous. Too much a reminder of my mortality. And that was one thing I did not need on my mind more than it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I whipped up a couple potions. One would settle Raven's shakes. The other would knock him out if he gave Case too much trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven gave me a dark look when I returned. I do not know how far Case had gotten. "Stay off your high horse," I told him. "You got no idea what's happened since Juniper. In fact, not a whole lot since the Battle at Charm. You being the brave and rugged loner hasn't helped. Drink this. It's for the shakes." I gave Case the other mixture with whispered instructions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a voice little above a whisper, Raven asked, "Is it true? Darling and the Lady are going after the Dominator tomorrow? Together?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Do-or-die time. For everybody."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll stay put. You, too, Case. We don't want Darling distracted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had managed to abolish worries about the tangled ramifications inherent in tomorrow's confrontations. Now they rushed in on me again. The Dominator would not be the end of it. Unless we lost. If he fell, the war with the Lady would resume instantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to see Darling badly, wanted in on her plans. I dared not go. The Lady was keeping me on the leash. She might interrogate me any time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lonely work. Lonely work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case went on tale-telling. Then Goblin and One-Eye dropped in to tell stories from their perspectives. The Lady even looked in. She beckoned me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I followed her to her quarters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Outside, night had fallen. In about eighteen hours the Great Barrow would open of its own accord. Sooner if we followed plan. "Sit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat. I said, "I'm getting fixated on it. Butterflies the size of horses. Can't think about anything else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. I considered you as a distraction, but I cared too much." Well, that distracted me. "Perhaps one of your potions?" I shook my head. "There is no specific for fear in my arsenal. I've heard of wizards…"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Those antidotes cost too dearly. We'll need our wits about us. It won't go like it did in rehearsal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised an eyebrow. She did not expand. I suppose she expected a lot of improvisational behavior from her allies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mess sergeant appeared. His crew rolled in a grand meal they set out on a table brought in special. A last feast for the condemned? After the crowd dispersed, the Lady said, "I ordered the best for everyone. Your friends in town included. Breakfast likewise." She seemed calm enough. But she was more accustomed to high-risk confrontations…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I snorted at myself. I recalled being asked for a hug. She was as scared as anybody.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She saw but did not ask-tip enough that she was focused inward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The meal was a miracle considering what the cooks had to work with. But it was nothing grand. We exchanged no words during its course. I finished first, rested my elbows on the table, retreated into thought. She followed suit. She had eaten very little. After a few minutes she went to her bedroom. She returned with three black arrows. Each had silver inlays in Kurre Telle script. I had seen their like before. Soulcatcher gave Raven one the time we ambushed Limper and Whisper. She said, "Use the bow I gave you. And stay close." The arrows appeared identical. "Who?" "My husband. They can't kill him. They lack his true name. But they'll slow him down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't think the rest of the plan will work?" "Anything is possible. But all eventualities should be considered." Her eyes met mine. There was something there… We looked away. She said, "You'd better go. Sleep well. I want you alert tomorrow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I laughed. "How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's been arranged. For all but the duty section."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh." Sorcery. One of the Taken would put everyone to sleep. I rose. I dithered for a few seconds, putting logs on the fire. I thanked her for the meal. Finally I managed to say what was on my mind. "I want to wish you luck. But I can't put my whole heart into it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her smile was wan. "I know." She followed me to the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Before I went out I yielded to the final impulse, turned- found her right there, hoping. I hugged her for half a minute.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn her for being human. But I needed that, too.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_58" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36410928" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36410931" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Seven:
THE LAST DAY <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">We were permitted to sleep in, then given an hour to breakfast, make peace with our gods, or whatever we had to do before entering battle. The Great Barrow was supposed to hold till noon. There was no rush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wondered what the thing in the earth was doing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Battle muster came about eight. There were no absences. The Limper drifted around on his little carpet, his path seeming to intersect that of Whisper more often than was necessary. They had their heads together about something. Bomanz skulked around the edges of things, trying to remain invisible. I did not blame him. In his shoes I might have made a run for Oar… In his shoes? Were mine more comfortable?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man was a victim of his sense of honor. He believed he had a debt to repay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A drumbeat announced time to take positions. I followed the Lady, noting that the remaining civilians were headed down the road to Oar with what possessions they could carry. It was going to be a crazy road. The troops the Lady had summoned were reported our side of Oar, coming in their thousands. They would arrive too late. Nobody thought to tell them to hold up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Attentions had narrowed. The outside world no longer existed. I watched the civilians and for a moment wondered what difficulties faced us if we had to flee. But my concern did not persist. I could not worry past the Dominator.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Windwhales took station over the river. Mantas searched for updrafts. Taken carpets rose. But today my feet remained on the ground. The Lady intended meeting her husband toe to toe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thanks a bunch, friend. There was Croaker in her shadow with his puny bow and arrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guards all in position, entrenched, behind low palisades, ditches, and artillery. Pennons all in place, to guide Darling's carefully surveyed ride. Tension mounting. What more was there to do?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stay behind me," the Lady reminded. "Keep your arrows ready."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Good luck. If we win, I'll buy you dinner at the Gardens in Opal." I don't know what possessed me to say that. Frenzied attempt at self-distraction? It was a chilly morning, but I was sweating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She seemed startled. Then she smiled. "If we win, I'll hold you to that." The smile was feeble. She had no cause to believe she would survive another hour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She started walking toward the Great Barrow. Faithful pup, I dogged her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The last spark of light would not die. She would not save herself through surrender.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bomanz gave us a head start, then followed. Likewise, the Limper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither's action was in the master plan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady did not react. Perforce, I let it go, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Taken carpets began to spiral down. The windwhales seemed a little bouncy, the manias a little frenetic in their search for favorable air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edge of the Barrowland. My amulet did not tingle. All the old fetishes outside the Barrowland's heart had been removed. The dead now lay in peace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Moist earth sucked at my boots. I had trouble maintaining my balance, keeping an arrow across my bow. I had one black shaft set to string, the other two gripped in the hand that held the bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady halted a few feet from the pit whence we had dragged Bomanz. She became oblivious to the world, almost as if she were communing with the thing underground. I glanced back. Bomanz had halted a little to the north, about fifty feet from me. He had his hands in his pockets and wore a look that dared me to protest his presence. The Limper had set down about where the moat was when a moat surrounded the Barrowland. He did not want to fall when the null swept over him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at the sun. About nine. Three hours margin if we wanted to use it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart was setting records for carrying on. My hands shook so much it seemed the bones ought to rattle. I doubted I could put an arrow into an elephant from five feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How come I got lucky and got picked to be her buttboy?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I reviewed my life. What had I done to deserve this? So many choices I might have made differently… "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ready?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never." I pasted on a sickly grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tried to smile back, but she was more scared than I was. She knew what she faced. She believed she had only moments to live.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had guts, that woman, going on when there was nothing she could win but, perhaps, some small redemption in the eyes of the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Names flashed through my mind. Sylith. Credence. Which? In a moment a choice might be critical.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I am not a religious man. But I sped a silent prayer to the gods of my youth asking that it not be me required to complete the ritual of her naming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She faced the town and raised an arm. Trumpets winded. As though anyone were not paying attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her arm dropped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hoofbeats. Darling in her white, with Elmo, Silent, and the Lieutenant all three dogging her, galloped the lane defined by the pennons. The null was to come sudden, then freeze. The Dominator was to be allowed to break out, but not with his power intact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the null. It hit me hard, so unaccustomed to it was I. The Lady staggered too. A mewl of fear fled her lips. She did not want to be disarmed. Not now. But it was the only way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ground shuddered once, gently, then geysered upward. I retreated a step. Shivering, I watched the fountain of muck disperse… and was amazed to see not a man but the dragon…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The damned dragon! I hadn't thought about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reared fifty feet high, flames boiling around its head. It roared. What now? In the null the Lady could not shield us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dominator fled my mind entirely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drew a shaft to its head, aimed for the beast's open mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shout restrained me. I turned. Bomanz pranced and shrieked, calling insults in KurreTelle. The dragon eyeballed him. And recalled that they had unfinished business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It struck like a snake. Flames surged ahead of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fire masked Bomanz but did not harm him. He had taken his stand beyond the null.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady moved a few steps to her right, to look past the dragon, whose forelegs were now free and scrabbling to drag the rest of its immense body loose. I could see nothing of our quarry. But the flying Taken were into their attack runs. Heavy fire-carrying spears were in flight already. They roared down, burst.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thunderous voice announced, "Headed for the river." The Lady hurried forward. Darling resumed moving, carrying the null toward the water. Ghosts cursed and pranced around me. I was too distracted to respond.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mantas dropped in swift, dark pairs, dancing between bolts of lightning loosed by windwhales. The air went crackly, smelled dry and strange.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly Tracker was with us, muttering about having to save the tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard a rising bray of horns. I dodged a flailing dragon leg, ducked a hammering wing, looked back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Scores of ill-clad human skeletons poured from the forest in the wake of a limping Toadkiller Dog. "I knew we hadn't seen the last of that bastard." I tried to get the Lady's attention. "The forest tribes. They're attacking the Guard." The Dominator had had at least one ace in the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady paid me no heed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What the tribesmen and Guard did were of no consequence to us at the moment. We had prey on the run and dared concern ourselves with nothing else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the water!" that voice thundered from above. Darling moved some more. The Lady and I scrambled over earth still rippling with the dragon's efforts to break free. It ignored us. Bomanz had its entire attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A windwhale dropped. Its tentacles probed the river. It caught something, dropped ballast water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A human figure writhed in the whale's grasp, screaming. My spirits rose. We had done it…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whale lifted too high. For a moment it raised the Dominator out of the null.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deadly mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thunder. Lightning. Terror on hot hooves. Half the town and a swath to the edge of the null shattered, scattered, burned, and blackened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whale exploded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Dominator fell. As he plunged toward both water and null, he bellowed, "Sylith! I name your name!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I loosed an arrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deadeye. One of the best wing shots I have ever made. It got him in the side. He shrieked and clawed at the shaft. Then he hit water. Manta lightning made the river boil. Another whale dropped and shoved tentacles beneath the surface. For a long moment I was terrified the Dominator would stay under and escape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But up he came, again in a monster's grasp. This whale, too, went too high. And paid the price, though the Dominator's magic was much enfeebled, probably by my arrow. He got off one wild spell which went astray and started fires in the Guards compound. The Guards and tribesmen were closely engaged nearby. The spell slew scores from both forces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not get another arrow off. I was frozen. I had been assured that the naming of a name, once suitable rituals had been observed, could not be stilled by the null. But the Lady had not faltered. She stood a step short of the edge of land, staring at the thing that had been her husband. The naming of the name Sylith had not disturbed her at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not Sylith! Twice the Dominator had named her wrong… Only one left to try. But my grin was hollow. I would have named her Sylith.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A third windwhale caught the Dominator. This one made no mistake. It carried him to shore, toward Darling and her escort. He struggled furiously. Gods! The vitality of that man!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind us, men screamed. Arms clashed. The Guards had not been as surprised as I. They were holding their ground. The airborne Taken hastened to support them, flinging a storm of deadly sorceries. Toadkiller Dog was the center of their attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Elmo, the Lieutenant, and Silent jumped the Dominator the moment the windwhale dropped him. That was like jumping a tiger. He threw Elmo thirty feet. I heard the crack as he broke the Lieutenant's spine. Silent danced away. I put another arrow into him. He staggered, but did not go down. Dazed, he started toward the Lady and me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker met him halfway. 'He set the son of the tree aside, grabbed hold of his man, started a wrestling match of epic scale. He and the Dominator shrieked like souls in torment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to rush down and tend to Elmo and the Lieutenant, but the Lady gestured for me to stay. Her gaze roved everywhere. She expected something more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A great shriek shook the earth. A ball of oily fire rolled skyward. The dragon flopped like an injured worm, screaming. Bomanz had disappeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To be seen was the Limper. Somehow he had dragged himself to within a dozen feet of me without my noticing. My fear was so great I nearly voided my bowels. His mask was gone. The devasted wasteland of his bare face glowered with malice. In a moment, he was thinking, he would even all scores with me. My legs turned to jelly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pointed a small crossbow, grinned. Then his aim drifted aside. I saw that his quarrel was close cousin to the arrow across my bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That electrified me, finally. I drew to the head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He squealed, "Credence, the rite is complete. I name your name!" And then he let fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I loosed at the same instant. I could get the shaft off no faster, damn me. My arrow slammed into his black heart, knocked him over. But too late. Too late.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady cried out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Terror turned into unreasoning rage. I flung myself at the Limper, abandoning my bow for my sword. He did not turn to face my assault. He just held himself up on one elbow and gaped at the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I really went crazy. I guess we all can, in the right circumstances. But I had been a soldier for ages. I'd long ago learned you don't do that sort of thing and stay alive long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Limper was inside the null. Which meant he was barely clinging to life, barely able to sustain himself, wholly unable to defend himself. I made him pay for all the years of fear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My first stroke half severed his neck. I kept hacking till I finished the job. Then I scattered a few limbs about, blunting my steel and madness on ancient bone. Sanity began to return. I whirled to see what had become of the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was down on one knee, the weight of her body resting upon the other. She was trying to draw Limper's bolt. I charged over, pulled her hand away. "No. Let me. Later." This time I was less startled that the naming had not worked. This time convinced me that nothing could disarm her. She should have been gone, damn it! I gave myself up to a long fit of the shakes. The Taken pounding on the forest people were having an effect. Some of the savages had begun fleeing. Toadkiller Dog was enveloped by painful sorceries. "Hang on," I told the Lady. "We're over the hump. We're going to do it." I don't know that I believed that, but it was what she needed to hear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tracker and the Dominator continued to roll around, grunting and cursing. Silent pranced around them with a broad-bladed spear. When chance presented itself, he cut our great enemy. Nothing could survive that forever. Darling watched, stayed close, stayed out of the Dominator's way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I scooted back to the wreck of the Limper and dug out the shaft I'd put into his chest. He glared at me. There was life in his brain still. I booted his head into the trench left by the dragon's rising.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That beast had ceased thrashing. Still no sign of Bomanz. Never any sign of Bomanz. He found the fate he feared, second try. He slew the monster from within.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Do not think Bomanz peripheral because he kept his head down. I believe the Dominator expected the dragon to preoccupy Darling and the Lady those few moments he needed to get shut of the null. Bomanz took that away. With the same determination and distinction as the Lady facing her inescapable fate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I returned to the Lady. My hands had attained their battlefield steadiness. I wished for my kit. My knife would have to do. I laid her back, started digging. That quarrel would chew on her till I got it out. For all the pain, she managed a grateful smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A dozen men surrounded Tracker and the Dominator now, every one stabbing. Some did not seem particular as to whom they hit. , The sands were about gone for the old evil. I packed and bound the Lady's wound with material from her own clothing. "We'll change this as soon as we can."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tribesmen were whipped. Toadkiller Dog was dragging himself toward the high country. That old mutt had as much staying power as his boss. Guards freed of the fighting hurried our way. They carried wood for the old doom's funeral Pyre-</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_59" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36411351" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36411354" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Eight:
END OF THE GAME <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Then I spotted Raven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The damned fool."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was leaning on Case, hobbling. He carried a bare sword. His face was set.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trouble for sure. His step was not quite as feeble as he pretended.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took no genius to guess what he had in mind. In his simple way of seeing things, he was going to make everything right with Darling by finishing off her big enemy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shakes came back, but this time not from fear. If somebody did not do something, I was going to be right in the middle. Right where I would have to make a choice, to act, and nothing I did would make anyone happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried distracting myself by testing the Lady's dressing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shadows fell upon us. I looked up into Silent's cold eyes, into Darling's more compassionate face. Silent cast a subtle glance Raven's way. He was in the middle, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady clawed at my arm. "Lift me," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did. She was as weak as water. I had to support her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet," she told Darling, as though Darling could hear. "He is not yet finished."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had gotten a leg and an arm off the Dominator. Those they threw into the woodpile. Tracker hung on so they could carve on the Dominator's neck. Goblin and One-Eye stood by, waiting for the head, ready to run like hell. Some Guards planted the son of the tree. Windwhales and manias hovered overhead. Others, with the Taken, were harassing Toadkiller Dog and the savages through the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven was getting closer. And I was no closer to knowing where I stood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That son-of-a-bitching Dominator was tough. He killed a dozen men before they finished carving him up. Even then he was not dead. Like Limper's, his head lived on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Time for Goblin and One-Eye. Goblin grabbed the still-living head, sat down, held it tightly between his knees. One-Eye hammered a six-inch silver spike through its forehead, into its brain. The Dominator's lips kept forming curses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nail would capture his blighted soul. The head would go into the fire. When that burned out, the spike would be recovered and driven into the trunk of the son of the tree. Meaning one dark spirit would be bound for a million years. Guards brought Limper parts to the fire, too. They did not find his head, though. The sodden walls of the trench whence the dragon had risen had collapsed upon it. Goblin and One-Eye torched the woodpile. The fire leapt up as if eager to fulfill its mission. The Limper's bolt had struck the Lady four inches from the heart, midway between her left breast and collarbone. I confess to a certain pride in having drawn it under such terrible circumstances without killing her. I should have incapacitated her left arm, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She now lifted that arm, reached out to Darling. Silent and I were puzzled. But only for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady pulled Darling to her. She had no strength, so it must be that, in a way, Darling allowed herself to be pulled. Then she whispered, "The rite is complete. I name your true name, Tonie Fisk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darling screamed soundlessly. The null began to fray.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent's face blackened. For what seemed an eternity he stood there in obvious torment, torn between a vow, a love, a hatred, perhaps the concept of an obligation to a higher duty. Tears began coursing down his cheeks. I got an old wish, and was ready to cry myself when I did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spoke. "The ritual is closed." He had trouble shaping his words. "I name your true name, Dorotea Senjak. I name your true name, Dorotea Senjak." I thought he would collapse in a faint then. But he did not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The women did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven was getting closer. So I had a pain atop all the other pains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent and I stared at one another. I suspect my face was as tormented as his. Then he nodded through his tears. There was peace between us. We knelt, untangled the women. He looked worried while I felt Darling's neck. "She'll be all right," I told him. The Lady, too, but he did not care about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wonder still how much each of the women expected in that moment. How much each yielded to destiny. It marked their end as powers of the world. Darling had no null. The Lady had no magic. They had canceled one another out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard screaming. Carpets were raining. All those Taken had been Taken by the Lady herself, and after what had happened on the Plain, she had made certain her fate would be their fate. So now they were undone, and soon dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not much magic left on that field. Tracker, too, was a goner, mauled to death by the Dominator. I believe he died happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there was no end yet. No. There was Raven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fifty feet away, he let go of Case and bore down like nemesis itself. His gaze was fixed on the Lady, though you could tell by his very step that He was on stage, that he was going to do a deed to win back Darling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, Croaker? Can you let it happen?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Lady's hand shivered in mine. Her pulse was feeble, but it was there. Maybe…</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe he would bluff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I picked up my bow and the arrow recovered from Limper. "Stop, Raven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did not. I do not think he heard me. Oh, damn. If he didn't… It was going to get out of hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Raven!" I bent the bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped. He stared at me as if trying to recall who I was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That whole battleground fell into silence. Every eye fixed upon us. Silent stopped moving Darling away, took up a sword, made certain he was between her and potential danger. It was almost amusing, the two of us there, like twins, standing guard over women whose hearts we could never have.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye and Goblin began drifting our way. I had no idea where they stood. Wherever, I did not want them involved. This had to be made into Raven against Croaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn. Damn. Damn. Why couldn't he just go away?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's over. Raven. There ain't going to be no more killing." I think my voice began to rise in pitch. "You hear? It's lost and won."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at Silent and Darling, not at me. And took a step.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to be the next guy dead?" Damn it, nobody could ever bluff him. Could I do it? I might have to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye stopped a careful ten feet to one side. "What are you doing, Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was shaking. Everything but my hands and arms, though my shoulders had begun to ache with the strain of keeping my arrow drawn. "What about Elmo?" I asked, my throat tight with emotion. "What about the Lieutenant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No good," he replied, telling me what I already knew in my heart. "Gone. Why don't you put the bow down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When he drops the sword." Elmo had been my best friend for more years than I cared to count. Tears began to blur my vision. "They're gone. That leaves me in charge, right? Senior officer surviving? Right? My first order is, peace breaks out. Right now. She made this possible. She gave herself up for this. Nobody touches her now. Not while I'm alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we'll change that," Raven said. He started moving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damned stubborn fool!" One-Eye shrieked. He flung himself toward Raven. I heard Goblin pattering up behind me. Too late. Both too late. Raven had a lot more fire in him than anyone suspected. And he was more than a little crazy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I yelled, "No!" and let fly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The arrow took Raven in the hip. In the very side he had been pretending was crippled. He wore a look of amazement as he stumbled. Lying there on the ground, his sword eight feet away, he looked up at me, still unable to believe that, in the end, I was not bluffing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had trouble believing it myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Case yelled and tried to jump me. Hardly looking at him, I whacked him up side the head with my bow. He went away and fussed over Raven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence, and stillness, again. Everyone looking at me. I slung rny bow. "Fix him up, One-Eye." I limped over to the Lady, knelt, lifted her. She seemed awfully light and fragile for one who had been so terrible. I followed Silent toward what was left of the town. The barracks'were still burning. We made an odd parade, the two of us lugging women. "Company meeting tonight," I threw out.at the Company survivors. "You all be there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I would not have believed myself capable before I did it. I carried her all the way to Blue Willy. And my ankle never hurt till I put her down.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_60" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36411607" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36411609" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifty-Nine:
LAST VOTE <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I limped into the common room at what was left of Blue Willy, the Lady supported under one arm, bow used as a crutch. The ankle was killing me. I had thought it almost healed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I deposited the Lady in a chair. She was weak and pale and only about half conscious despite the best One-Eye and I could do. I was determined not to let her out of my sight. Our situation was still fraught with peril. Her people no longer had any reason to be nice. And she was at risk herself- probably more from herself than from Raven or my comrades. She had fallen into a state of complete despair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is this all?" I asked. Silent, Goblin, and One-Eye were there. And Otto the immortal, wounded as always after a Company action, with his eternal sidekick, Hagop. A youngster named Murgen, our standard-bearer. Three others from the Company. And Darling, of course, seated beside Silent. She ignored the Lady completely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven and Case were back by the bar, present without having been invited. Raven wore a dark look but seemed to have himself under control. His gaze was fixed on Darling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked grim. She had rebounded better than the Lady. But she had won. She ignored Raven more assiduously than she did the Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There had been a showdown between them, and I had overheard his half. Darling had made very clear her displeasure with his inability to handle emotional commitment. She had not cut him off. She had not banished him from her heart. But he was not redeemed in her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He then had said some very unkind things about Silent, whom, it was obvious, she held in affection but nothing deeper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And that had gotten her really angry. I had peeped then. And she had gone on in great length and fury about not being a prize in some men's game, like a princess in some dopey fairy tale where a gang of suitors ride around doing stupid and dangerous things vying for her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like the Lady, she had been in charge too long to accept a standard female role now. She was still the White Rose inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So Raven was not so happy. He had not been shut out, but he had been told he had a long way to go if he wanted to lay any claims.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first task she had given him was righting himself with his children.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I halfway felt sorry for the guy. He knew only one role. Hard guy. And it had been stripped away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One-Eye interrupted my thoughts. "This is it, Croaker. This is all. Going to be a big funeral."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would. "Shall I preside as senior officer surviving? Or do you want to exercise your prerogative as oldest brother?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do it." He was in no mood to do anything but brood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither was I. But there were ten of us still alive, surrounded by potential enemies. We had decisions to make.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. This is an official convocation of the Black Company, last of the Free Companies of Khatovar. We've lost our captain. First business is to elect a new commander. Then we have to decide how we're going to get out of here. Any nominations?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You," Otto said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a physician."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're the only real officer left."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Raven started to rise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him, "You sit down and keep quiet. You don't even belong here. You walked out on us fifteen years ago, remember? Come on, you guys. Who else?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody spoke. Nobody volunteered. Nobody met my eye, either. They all knew I did not want it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin squeaked, "Is anybody against Croaker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody blackballed me. It's wonderful to be loved. Grand to be the least of evils.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to turn it down. The option was not there. "All right. Next order of business. Getting the hell out of here. We're surrounded, guys. And the Guard will get its balance pretty soon. We've got to get gone before they start looking around for somebody to whip on. But once we get clear, then what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody offered an opinion. These men were as much in shock as the Guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. I know what I want to do. Since time immemorial one of the jobs of the Annalist has been to return the Annals to Khatovar should the Company disband or be demolished. We've been demolished. I propose a vote to disband. Some of us have assumed obligations that are going to put us at odds as soon as we don't have anybody more dangerous to fuss at." I looked at Silent. He met my gaze. He'd just moved his seat so he was more into the gap between Darling and Raven, a gesture understood by everyone but Raven himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had nominated myself guardian for the Lady, for the time being. There was no way we could keep those two women in one another's company for long. I hoped we could hold the group together as far as Oar. I would be satisfied with getting to the edge of the forest. We needed every hand. Our tactical situation could not have been worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shall we disband?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That caused a stir. Everyone but Silent argued the negative.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I interjected, "This is a formal proposition. I want those with special interests to go their own ways without the stigma of desertion. That don't mean we have to split. What I'm saying is, we formally shed the name the Black Company. I'll head south with the Annals, looking for Khatovar. Anyone who wants can come. Under the usual rules."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobody wanted to give up the name. That would be like renouncing a patronym thirty generations old.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we don't give it up. Who would rather not go look for Khatovar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three hands rose. All belonged to troopers who had enlisted north of the Sea of Torments. Silent abstained, though he wanted to go his own way, in pursuit of his own impossible dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then another hand shot up. Belatedly, Goblin had noted that One-Eye was not opposed. They started one of their arguments. I cut it short.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't insist on the majority dragging everybody along. As commander, I can discharge anyone who wants to follow another path. Silent?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had been a brother of the Black Company longer than I. We were his friends, his family. His heart was torn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, he nodded. He would go his own road, even without promises from Darling. The three who had opposed heading for Khatovar nodded too. I entered their discharges in the Annals. "You're out," I told them. "I'll deal out your shares of money and equipment when we clear the south edge of the forest. Till then we stick together." I did not pursue it further, or in a moment I would have been hanging all over Silent, bawling my eyes out. We had been through a lot, he and I.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wheeled on Goblin, pen poised. "Well? Do I strike your name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on," One-Eye said. "Hurry. Do it. Get rid of him. We don't need his kind. He's never been anything but trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goblin scowled at him. "Just for that I'm not leaving. I'm going to stay and outlive you and make your remaining days examples of misery. And I hope you live another hundred years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had not thought they would split. "Fine," I said, stifling a grin. "Hagop, take a couple men and round up some animals. The rest of you collect whatever might be useful. Like money, if you see any laying around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at me with eyes still dull with the impact of what had happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're getting out, guys. As soon as we can ride. Before any more trouble finds us. Hagop. Don't stint on pack animals. I want to carry off everything that isn't nailed down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was talk, argument, whatnot, but I closed the official debate at that point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cunning devil that I am, I got the Guards to do our burying. I stood over the Company graves with Silent and shed more than a few tears. "I never thought Elmo… He was my best friend." It had hit me. At last. Hard. Now I had done all the duties, there was nothing to hold it at bay. "He was my sponsor when I came in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent lifted a hand, gently squeezed my arm. It was as much of a gesture as I could expect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Guards were paying their last respects to their own. Their daze was fading. Soon they would begin thinking about getting on with business. About asking the Lady what they should do. In a sense, they had been rendered unemployed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They did not know their mistress had been disarmed. I prayed they did not learn, for I meant to use her as our ticket out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dreaded what might happen should her loss become general knowledge. On the broad canvas, civil wars to torment the world. On the fine, attempts at revenge upon her person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someday someone would begin to suspect. I just wanted the secret kept till we had a good run at getting out of the empire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent took my arm again. He wanted to go. "One second," I said. I drew my sword, saluted our graves, repeated the ancient formula of parting. Then I followed him to where the others waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silent's party would ride with us a while, as I'd wished. Our ways would part when we felt safe from the Guards. I did not look forward to that moment, inevitable though it was. How keep two such as Darling and the Lady in company when there was no survival imperative?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I swung into the saddle cursing my wretched aching ankle. The Lady gave me a dirty look. "Well," I said. "You're showing some spirit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you kidnapping me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to be alone with all your folks? With maybe nothing better than a knife to keep order?" Then I forced a grin. "We've got a date. Remember? Dinner at the Gardens in Opal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For just a moment there was a spark of mischief behind her despair. And a look from a moment by a fire when we had come close. Then the shadow returned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned closer, trembling with the thought. I whispered, "And I need your help to get the Annals out of the Tower." I had not told anyone that I did not have them in my possession yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shadow went. "Dinner? That's a promise?" The witch could promise a lot, just with a look and her tone. I croaked, "In the Gardens. Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave the time-honored signal. Hagop started off on point. Goblin and One-Eye followed, bickering as usual. Then Murgen, with the standard, then the Lady and I. Then most of the others, with the pack animals. Silent and Darling brought up the rear, well separated from the Lady and I.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As I urged my mount forward, I glanced back. Raven stood leaning on his cane, looking more forlorn and abandoned than he should. Case was still trying to explain it to him. The kid had no trouble understanding. I figured Raven would, once he got over the shock of not having everyone jump to do things his way, the shock of discovering that old Croaker could fill his bluff if he had to. "I'm sorry," I murmured his way, not quite sure why. Then I faced the forest and did not look back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a feeling he would be on the road himself soon enough. If Darling really meant as much to him as he wanted us to think.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
     
    
   
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">That night, for the first time in who knows how long, the northern skies were completely clear. The Great Comet illuminated our way. Now the north knew what the rest of the empire had known for weeks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was on the wane already. The hour of decision had passed. The empire awaited in fear the news that it portended.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Away north. Three days later. In the dark of a moonless night. A beast with three legs limped from the Great Forest. It settled on its haunches on the remains of the Barrowland, scratched the earth with its one forepaw. The son of the tree flung a tiny change storm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The monster fled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it would return another night, and another, and another after that…</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    
     
    
   
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">REVISION HISTORY</div>
   <div class="paragraph">v2.0 - 31 mar 02 by wg</div>
   <div class="paragraph">-reformat to standard html</div>
   <div class="paragraph">-added chapter links</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

