---
layout: page
title: "Witches Abroad"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-witches-abroad_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215829">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre6"/>
  Witches Abroad <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216937" class="calibre7"></div>

   <div class="paragraph">This is the Discworld, which travels through space on the back of four elephants which themselves stand on the shell of Great A'Tuin, the sky turtle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once upon a time such a universe was considered unusual and, possibly, impossible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But then... it used to be so simple, once upon a time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because the universe was full of ignorance all around and the scientist panned through it like a prospector crouched over a mountain stream, looking for the gold of knowledge among the gravel of unreason, the sand of uncertainty and the little whiskery eight-legged swimming things of superstition.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally he would straighten up and say things like ‘Hurrah, I've discovered Boyle's Third Law." And everyone knew where they stood. But the trouble was that ignorance became more interesting, especially big fascinating ignorance about huge and important things like matter and creation, and people stopped patiently building their little houses of rational sticks in the chaos of the universe and started getting interested in the chaos itself - partly because it was a lot easier to be an expert on chaos, but mostly because it made really good patterns that you could put on a t-shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And instead of getting on with proper science scientists suddenly went around saying how impossible it was to know anything, and that there wasn't really anything you could call reality to know anything about, and how all this was tremendously exciting, and incidentally did you know there were possibly all these little universes all over the place but no-one can see them because they are all curved in on themselves? Incidentally, don't you think this is a rather good t-shirt?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Compared to all this, a large turtle with a world on its back is practically mundane. At least it doesn't pretend it doesn't exist, and no-one on the Discworld ever tried to prove it didn't exist in case they turned out to be right and found themselves suddenly floating in empty space. This is because the Discworld exists right on the edge of reality. The least little things can break through to the other side. So, on the Discworld, people take things seriously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like stories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because stories are important.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People think that stories are shaped by people. In fact, it's the other way around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stories exist independently of their players. If you know that, the knowledge is power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stories, great flapping ribbons of shaped space-time, have been blowing and uncoiling around the universe since the beginning of time. And they have evolved. The weakest have died and the strongest have survived and they have grown fat on the retelling... stories, twisting and blowing through the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And their very existence overlays a faint but insistent pattern on the chaos that is history. Stories etch grooves deep enough for people to follow in the same way that water follows certain paths down a mountainside. And every time fresh actors tread the path of the story, the groove runs deeper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is called the theory of narrative causality and it means that a story, once started, takes a shape. It picks up all the vibrations of all the other workings of that story that have ever been.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is why history keeps on repeating all the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So a thousand heroes have stolen fire from the gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thousand wolves have eaten grandmother, a thousand princesses have been kissed. A million unknowing actors have moved, unknowing, through the pathways of story.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is now impossible for the third and youngest son of any king, if he should embark on a quest which has so far claimed his older brothers, not to succeed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stories don't care who takes part in them. All that matters is that the story gets told, that the story repeats. Or, if you prefer to think of it like this: stories are a parasitical life form, warping lives in the service only of the story itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It takes a special kind of person to fight back, and become the bicarbonate of history.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once upon a time...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Grey hands gripped the hammer and swung it, striking the post so hard that it sank a foot into the soft earth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two more blows and it was fixed immovably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the trees around the clearing the snakes and birds watched silently. In the swamp the alligators drifted like patches of bad-assed water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Grey hands took up the crosspiece and fixed it in place, tying it with creepers, pulling them so tight that they creaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched him. And then she took up a fragment of mirror and tied it to the top of the post.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The coat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took up the coat and fitted it over the crosspiece. The pole wasn't long enough, so that the last few inches of sleeve draped emptily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the hat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was tall, and round, and black. It glistened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The piece of mirror gleamed between the darkness of the hat and the coat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will it work?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," she said. "Even mirrors have their reflection. We got to fight mirrors with mirrors." She glared up through the trees to a slim white tower in the distance. "We've got to find her reflection."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll have to reach out a long way, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. We need all the help we can get."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around the clearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had called upon Mister Safe Way, Lady Bon Anna, Hotaloga Andrews and Stride Wide Man. They probably weren't very good gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But they were the best she'd been able to make.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is a story about stories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or what it really means to be a fairy godmother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it's also, particularly, about reflections and mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All across the multiverse there are backward tribes who distrust mirrors and images because, they say, they steal a bit of a person's soul and there's only so much of a person to go around. And the people who wear more clothes say this is just superstition, despite the fact that other people who spend their lives appearing in images of one sort or another seem to develop a thin quality. It's put down to over-work and, tellingly, over-exposure instead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just superstition. But a superstition doesn't have to be wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A mirror can suck up a piece of soul. A mirror can contain the reflection of the whole universe, a whole skyful of stars in a piece of silvered glass no thicker than a breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Know about mirrors and you nearly know everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Look into the mirror...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... further...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... to an orange light on a cold mountaintop, thousands of miles from the vegetable warmth of that swamp...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Local people called it the Bear Mountain. This was because it was a bare mountain, not because it had a lot of bears on it. This caused a certain amount of profitable confusion, though; people often strode into the nearest village with heavy duty crossbows, traps and nets and called haughtily for native guides to lead them to the bears. Since everyone locally was making quite a good living out of this, what with the sale of guide books, maps of bear caves, ornamental cuckoo-clocks with bears on them, bear walking-sticks and cakes baked in the shape of a bear, somehow no-one had time to go and correct the spelling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was about as bare as a mountain could be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of the trees gave out about halfway to the top, only a few pines hanging on to give an effect very similar to the couple of pathetic strands teased across his scalp by a baldie who won't own up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a place where witches met.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tonight a fire gleamed on the very crest of the hill. Dark figures moved in the flickering light.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon coasted across a lacework of clouds. Finally, a tall, pointy-hatted figure said, "You mean everyone brought potato salad?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was one Ramtop witch who was not attending the sabbat. Witches like a night out as much as anyone else but, in this case, she had a more pressing appointment. And it wasn't the kind of appointment you can put off easily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Desiderata Hollow was making her will.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Desiderata Hollow was a girl, her grandmother had given her four important pieces of advice to guide her young footsteps on the unexpectedly twisting pathway of life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Never trust a dog with orange eyebrows,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Always get the young man's name and address,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Never get between two mirrors,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And always wear completely clean underwear every day because you never knew when you were going to be knocked down and killed by a runaway horse and if people found you had unsatisfactory underwear on, you'd die of shame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then Desiderata grew up to become a witch. And one of the minor benefits of being a witch is that you know exactly when you're going to die and can wear what underwear you like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That had been eighty years earlier, when the idea of knowing exactly when you were going to die had seemed quite attractive because secretly, of course, you knew you were going to live forever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was then.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And this was now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Forever didn't seem to last as long these days as once it did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another log crumbled to ash in the fireplace. Desiderata hadn't bothered to order any fuel for the winter. Not much point, really.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, of course, there was this other thing...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd wrapped it up carefully into a long, slim package. Now she folded up the letter, addressed it, and pushed it under the string. Job done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up. Desiderata had been blind for thirty years, but this hadn't been a problem. She'd always been blessed, if that was the word, with second sight. So when the ordinary eyes gave out you just trained yourself to see into the present, which anyway was easier than the future. And since the eyeball of the occult didn't depend on light, you saved on candles. There was always a silver lining, if you knew where to look. In a manner of speaking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a mirror on the wall in front of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face in it was not her own, which was round and pink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the face of a woman who was used to giving orders. Desiderata wasn't the sort to give orders. Quite the reverse, in fact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman said, "You are dying, Desiderata."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am that, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've grown old. Your sort always do. Your power is nearly gone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a fact, Lilith," said Desiderata mildly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So your protection is withdrawing from her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Fraid so," said Desiderata.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So now it's just me and the evil swamp woman. And I will win."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's how it seems, I'm afraid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You should have found a successor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never had the time. I'm not the planning sort, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face in the mirror got closer, as if the figure had moved a little nearer to its side of the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've lost, Desiderata Hollow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So it goes." Desiderata got to her feet, a little unsteadily, and picked up a cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure seemed to be getting angry. It clearly felt that people who had lost ought to look downcast, and not as if they were enjoying a joke at your expense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you understand what losing means?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some people are very clear about that," said Desiderata. "Goodbye, m'lady." She hung the cloth over the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an angry intake of breath, and then silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Desiderata stood as if lost in thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she raised her head, and said: "Kettle boiled just now. Would you like a cup of tea?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, THANK YOU, said a voice right behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you been waiting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FOREVER.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not keeping you, am I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT'S A QUIET NIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm making a cup of tea. I think there's one biscuit left."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO, THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you feel peckish, it's in the jar on the mantelpiece. That's genuine Klatchian pottery, you know. Made by a genuine Klatchian craftsman. From Klatch," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">INDEED?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I used to get about a lot in my younger days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great times." Desiderata poked the fire. "It was the job, you see. Of course, I expect it's very much the same for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never knew when I was going to be called out. Well, of course you'd know about that, wouldn't you. Kitchens, mainly. It always seemed to be kitchens. Balls sometimes, but generally it was kitchens." She picked up the kettle and poured the boiling water into the teapot on the hearth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">INDEED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I used to grant their wishes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked puzzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT? YOU MEAN LIKE... FITTED CUPBOARDS? NEW SINKS? THAT KIND OF THING?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, no. The people." Desiderata sighed. "It's a big responsibility, fairy godmothering. Knowing when to stop, I mean. People whose wishes get granted often don't turn out to be very nice people. So should you give them what they want - or what they need?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death nodded politely. From his point of view, people got what they were given.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like this Genua thing - " Desiderata began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked up sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GENUA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know it? Well, of course you would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I... KNOW EVERYWHERE, OF COURSE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Desiderata's expression softened. Her inner eyes were looking elsewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There were two of us. Godmothers go in twos, you know. Me and Lady Lilith? There's a lot of power in godmothering. It's like being part of history. Anyway, the girl was born, out of wedlock but none the worse for that, it wasn't as if they couldn't have married, they just never got round to it... and Lilith wished for her to have beauty and power and marry a prince. Hah! And she's been working on that ever since. What could I do? You can't argue with wishes like that. Lilith knows the power of a story. I've done the best I could, but Lilith's got the power. I hear she runs the city now. Changing a whole country just to make a story work! And now it's too late anyway. For me. So I'm handing on the responsibility. That's how it goes, with fairy godmothering. No-one ever wants to be a fairy godmother. Except Lilith, of course. Got a bee in her bonnet about it. So I'm sending someone else. I may have left things too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Desiderata was a kindly soul. Fairy godmothers develop a very deep understanding about human nature, which makes the good ones kind and the bad ones powerful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was not someone to use extreme language, but it was possible to be sure that when she deployed a mild term like ‘a bee in her bonnet' she was using it to define someone whom she believed to be several miles over the madness horizon and accelerating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She poured out the tea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the trouble with second sight," she said. "You can see what's happenin', but you don't know what it means. I've seen the future. There's a coach made out of a pumpkin. And that's impossible. And there's coachmen made out of mice, which is unlikely. And there's a clock striking midnight, and something about a glass slipper. And it's all going to happen. Because that's how stories have to work. And then I thought: I knows some people who make stories work their way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sighed again. "Wish I was going to Genua," she said. "I could do with the warmth. And it's Fat Tuesday coming up. Always went to Genua for Fat Tuesday in the old days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an expectant silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Death said, YOU SURELY ARE NOT ASKING ME TO GRANT A WISH ?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! No-one grants a fairy godmother's wishes." Desiderata had that inward look again, her voice talking to herself. "See? I got to get the three of them to Genua. Got to get ‘em there because I've seen ‘em there. Got to be all three. And that ain't easy, with people like them. Got to use headology. Got to make ‘em send ‘emselves. Tell Esme Weatherwax she's got to go somewhere and she won't go out of contrariness, so tell her she's not to go and she'll run there over broken glass. That's the thing about the Weatherwaxes, see. They don't know how to be beaten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something seemed to strike her as funny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But one of ‘em's going to have to learn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death said nothing. From where he sat, Desiderata reflected, losing was something that everyone learned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She drained her tea. Then she stood up, put on her pointy hat with a certain amount of ceremony, and hobbled out of the back door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a deep trench dug under the trees a little way from the house, down into which someone had thoughtfully put a short ladder. She climbed in and, with some difficulty, heaved the ladder on to the leaves. Then she lay down. She sat up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr Chert the troll down at the sawmill does a very good deal on coffins, if you don't mind pine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SHALL DEFINITELY BEAR IT IN MIND.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got Hurker the poacher to dig the hole out for me," she said conversationally, "and he's goin' to come along and fill it in on his way home. I believe in being neat. Take it away, maestro."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHAT? OH. A FIGURE OF SPEECH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Desiderata Hollow went to her rest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," she said, "that was easy. What happens now?"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And this is Genua. The magical kingdom. The diamond city. The fortunate country.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the centre of the city a woman stood between two mirrors, watching herself reflected all the way to infinity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mirrors were themselves in the centre of an octagon of mirrors, open to the sky on the highest tower of the palace. There were so many reflections, in fact, that it was only with extreme difficulty that you could tell where the mirrors ended and the real person began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her name was Lady Lilith de Tempscire, although she had answered to many others in the course of a long and eventful life. And that was something you learned to do early on, she'd found. If you wanted to get anywhere in this world - and she'd decided, right at the start, that she wanted to get as far as it was possible to go - you wore names lightly, and you took power anywhere you found it. She had buried three husbands, and at least two of them had been already dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And you moved around a lot. Because most people didn't move around much. Change countries and your name and, if you had the right manner, the world was your mollusc. For example, she'd had to go a mere hundred miles to become a Lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd go to any lengths now...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two main mirrors were set almost, but not quite, facing one another, so that Lilith could see over her shoulder and watch her images curve away around the universe inside the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could feel herself pouring into herself, multiplying itself via the endless reflections.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Lilith sighed and strode out from the Space between the mirrors the effect was startling. Images of Lilith hung in the air behind her for a moment, like three-dimensional shadows, before fading.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So... Desiderata was dying. Interfering old baggage. She deserved death. She'd never understood the kind of power she'd had. She was one of those people afraid to do good for fear of doing harm, who took it all so seriously that they'd constipate themselves with moral anguish before granting the wish of a single ant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith looked down and out over the city. Well, there were no barriers now. The stupid voodoo woman in the swamp was a mere distraction, with no understanding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing stood in the way of what Lilith liked more than anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A happy ending.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Up on the mountain, the sabbat had settled down a bit. Artists and writers have always had a rather exaggerated idea about what goes on at a witches' sabbat. This comes from spending too much time in small rooms with the curtains drawn, instead of getting out in the healthy fresh air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For example, there's the dancing around naked. In the average temperate climate there are very few nights when anyone would dance around at midnight with no clothes on, quite apart from the question of stones, thistles, and sudden hedgehogs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there's all that business with goat-headed gods. Most witches don't believe in gods. They know that the gods exist, of course. They even deal with them occasionally. But they don't believe in them. They know them too well. It would be like believing in the postman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there's the food and drink - the bits of reptile and so on. In fact, witches don't go for that sort of thing. The worst you can say about the eating habits of the older type of witch is that they tend to like ginger biscuits dipped in tea with so much sugar in it that the spoon won't move and will drink it out of the saucer if they think it's too hot. And do so with appreciative noises more generally associated with the cheaper type of plumbing system. Legs of toad and so on might be better than this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there's the mystic ointments. By sheer luck, the artists and writers are on firmer ground here. Most witches are elderly, which is when ointments start to have an attraction, and at least two of those present tonight were wearing Granny Weatherwax's famous goose-grease-and-sage chest liniment. This didn't make you fly and see visions, but it did prevent colds, if only because the distressing smell that developed around about the second week kept everyone else so far away you couldn't catch anything from them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And finally there's sabbats themselves. Your average witch is not, by nature, a social animal as far as other witches are concerned. There's a conflict of dominant personalities. There's a group of ringleaders without a ring. There's the basic unwritten rule of witchcraft, which is "Don't do what you will, do what I say." The natural size of a coven is one. Witches only get together when they can't avoid it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Like now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The conversation, given Desiderata's absence, had naturally turned to the increasing shortage of witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, no-one?" said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one," said Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I call that terrible," said Granny. "That's disgustin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?" said Old Mother Dismass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She calls it disgusting!" shouted Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no girl to put forward! To take Desiderata's place!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The implications of this sank in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If anyone doesn't want their crusts I'll ‘ave ‘em," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We never had this sort of thing in my young days," said Granny. "There was a dozen witches this side of the mountain alone. Of course, that was before all this" - she made a face - "making your own entertainment. There's far too much of this making your own entertainment these days. We never made our own entertainment when I was a girl. We never had time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tempers fuggit," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tempers fuggit. Means that was then and this is now," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't need no-one to tell me that, Gytha Ogg. I know when now is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got to move with the times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see why. Don't see why we - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I reckon we got to shift the boundaries again," said Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't do that," said Granny Weatherwax promptly. "I'm doing four villages already. The broomstick hardly has time to cool down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, with Mother Hollow passing on, we're definitely short handed," said Gammer Brevis. "I know she didn't do a lot, what with her other work, but she was there. That's what it's all about. Being there. There's got to be a local witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four witches stared gloomily at the fire. Well, three of them did. Nanny Ogg, who tended to look on the cheerful side, made toast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got a wizard in, down in Creel Springs," said Gammer Brevis. "There wasn't anyone to take over when old Granny Hopliss passed on, so they sent off to Ankh-Morpork for a wizard. An actual wizard. With a staff. He's got a shop there and everything, with a brass sign on the door. It says "Wizard"."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Singe passed on," said Gammer Brevis. "And Gammer Peavey passed on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did she? Old Mabel Peavey?" said Nanny Ogg, through a shower of crumbs. "How old was she?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One hundred and nineteen," said Gammer Brevis. "I said to her, "You don't want to go climbing mountains at your age" but she wouldn't listen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some people are like that," said Granny. "Stubborn as mules. Tell them they mustn't do something and they won't stop till they've tried it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I actually heard her very last words," said Gammer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did she say?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As I recall, "oh bugger"," said Gammer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the way she would have wanted to go," said Nanny Ogg. The other witches nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know... we could be looking at the end of witchcraft in these parts," said Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stared at the fire again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't ‘spect anyone's brought any marshmallows?" said Nanny Ogg, hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked at her sister witches. Gammer Brevis she couldn't stand; the old woman taught school on the other side of the mountain, and had a nasty habit of being reasonable when provoked. And Old Mother Dismass was possibly the most useless sibyl in the history of oracular revelation. And Granny really couldn't be having at all with Nanny Ogg, who was her best friend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about young Magrat?" said Old Mother Dismass innocently. "Her patch runs right alongside Desiderata's. Maybe she could take on a bit extra?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg exchanged glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's gone funny in the head," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, come on, Esme," said Nanny Ogg. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I call it funny," said Granny. "You can't tell me that saying all that stuff about relatives isn't going funny in the head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She didn't say that," said Nanny. "She said she wanted to relate to herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I said," said Granny Weatherwax. "I told her: Simplicity Garlick was your mother, Araminta Garlick was your granny. Yolande Garlick is your aunt and you're your . , . you're your me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat back with the satisfied look of someone who has solved everything anyone could ever want to know about a personal identity crisis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She wouldn't listen," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gammer Brevis wrinkled her forehead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat?" she said. She tried to get a mental picture of the Ramtops' youngest witch and recalled - well, not a face, just a slightly watery-eyed expression of hopeless goodwill wedged between a body like a maypole and hair like a haystack after a gale. A relentless doer of good works. A worrier. The kind of person who rescued small lost baby birds and cried when they died, which is the function kind old Mother Nature usually reserves for small lost baby birds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't sound like her," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she said she wanted to be more self-assertive," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing wrong with being self-assertive," said Nanny. "Self-asserting's what witching's all about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never said there was anything wrong with it," said Granny. "I told her there was nothing wrong with it. You can be as self-assertive as you like, I said, just so long as you do what you're told."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rub this on and it'll clear up in a week or two," said Old Mother Dismass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other three witches watched her expectantly, in case there was going to be anything else. It became clear that there wasn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she's running - what's that she's running, Gytha?" said Granny.            •</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Self-defence classes," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But she's a witch," Gammer Brevis pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told her that," said Granny Weatherwax, who had walked nightly without fear in the bandit-haunted forests of the mountains all her life in the certain knowledge that the darkness held nothing more terrible than she was. "She said that wasn't the point. Wasn't the point. That's what she said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one goes to them, anyway," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought she was going to get married to the king," said Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone did," said Nanny. "But you know Magrat. She tends to be open to Ideas. Now she says she refuses to be a sex object."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all thought about this. Finally Gammer Brevis said, slowly, in the manner of one surfacing from the depths of fascinated cogitation, "But she's never been a sex object."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm pleased to say I don't even know what a sex object is," said Granny Weatherwax firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our Shane brought one home from foreign parts once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They carried on looking at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was brown and fat and had beads on and a face and two holes for the string."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This didn't seem to avert their gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's what he said it was," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you're talking about a fertility idol," said Gammer Brevis helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shook her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't sound much like Magrat to me - " she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't tell me that's worth tuppence," said Old Mother Dismass, from whatever moment of time she was currently occupying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one was ever quite sure which it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an occupational hazard for those gifted with second sight. The human mind isn't really designed to be sent rocketing backwards and forwards along the great freeway of time and can become, as it were, detached from its anchorage, seeing randomly into the past and the future and only occasionally into the present. Old Mother Dismass was temporally unfocused. This meant that if you spoke to her in August she was probably listening to you in March. It was best just to say something now and hope she'd pick it up next time her mind was passing through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny waved her hands experimentally in front of Old Mother Dismass's unseeing eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's gone again," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, if Magrat can't take it on there's Millie Hopgood from over Slice way," said Gammer Brevis. "She's a hardworking girl. Mind you, she's got a worse squint than Magrat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing wrong with that. A squint looks good on a witch," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you have to know how to use it," said Nanny Ogg. "Old Gertie Simmons used to have a squint and she was always putting the evil influence on the end of her own nose. We can't have people thinkin' that if you upsets a witch she curses and mutters and then her own nose drops off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all stared at the fire again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose Desiderata wouldn't have chosen her own successor?" said Gammer Brevis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't go doin' that," said Granny Weatherwax. "That's not how we do things in these parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but Desiderata didn't spend much time in these parts. It was the job. She was always going off to foreign parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't be having with foreign parts," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've been to Ankh-Morpork," said Nanny mildly. "That's foreign."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No it's not. It's just a long way off. That's not the same as foreign. Foreign's where they gabble at you in heathen lingo and eat foreign muck and worship, you know, objects," said Granny Weatherwax, goodwill diplomat. "Foreign can be quite close to, if you're not careful. Huh," she added witheringly. "Yes, she could bring back just about anything from foreign parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She brought me back a nice blue and white plate once," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a point," said Gammer Brevis. "Someone'd better go and see to her cottage. She had quite a lot of good stuff there. It'd be dreadful to think of some thief getting in there and having a rummage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't imagine any thief'd want to break into a witch's - " Granny began, and then stopped abruptly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," she said meekly. "Good idea. I'll see to it directly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'll see to it," said Nanny Ogg, who'd also had time to work something out. "It's right on my way home. No problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you'll be wanting to get home early," said Granny. "Don't you bother yourself. It'd be no trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, it won't be any trouble at all," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't want to go tiring yourself out at your age," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They glared at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I really don't see that it matters," said Gammer Brevis. "You might as well go together rather than fight about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a bit busy tomorrow," said Granny. "How about after lunch?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," said Nanny Ogg. "We'll meet at her cottage. Right after lunch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had one once but the bit you unscrew fell off and got lost," said Old Mother Dismass.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Hurker the poacher shovelled the last of the earth into the hole. He felt he ought to say a few words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's about it, then," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd definitely been one of the better witches, he thought, as he wandered back to the cottage in the pre-dawn gloom. Some of the other ones - while of course being wonderful human beings, he added to himself hurriedly, as fine a bunch of women as you could ever hope to avoid - were just a bit overpowering. Mistress Hollow had been a listening kind of person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the kitchen table was a long package, a small pile of coins, and an envelope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the envelope, although it was not addressed to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Inside was a smaller envelope, and a note.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The note said: I'm watching you, Albert Hurker. Deliver the packige and the envlope and if you dare take a peek inside something dretful will happen to you. As a profesional Good Farey Godmother I aint allowed to curse anyone but I Predict it would probly involve bein bittern by an enraged wolf and your leg going green and runny and dropping off, dont arsk me how I know anyway you carnt because, I am dead. All the best, Desiderata.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the package with his eyes shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Light travels slowly in the Discworld's vast magical field, which means that time does too. As Nanny Ogg would put it, when it's teatime in Genua it's Tuesday over here...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact it was dawn in Genua. Lilith sat in her tower, using a mirror, sending her own image out to scan the world. She was searching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wherever there was a sparkle on a wave crest, wherever there was a sheet of ice, wherever there was a mirror or a reflection then Lilith knew she could see out. You didn't need a magic mirror. Any mirror would do, if you knew how to use it. And Lilith, crackling with the power of a million images, knew that very well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was just a nagging doubt. Presumably Desiderata would have got rid of it. Her sort were like that. Conscientious. And presumably it would be to that stupid girl with the watery eyes who sometimes visited the cottage, the one with all the cheap jewellery and the bad taste in clothes. She looked just the type.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Lilith wanted to be sure. She hadn't got where she was today without being sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In puddles and windows all over Lancre, the face of Lilith appeared momentarily and then moved on...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now it was dawn in Lancre. Autumn mists rolled through the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax pushed open the cottage door. It wasn't locked. The only visitor Desiderata had been expecting wasn't the sort to be put off by locks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's had herself buried round the back," said a voice behind her. It was Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny considered her next move. To point out that Nanny had deliberately come early, so as to search the cottage by herself, then raised questions about Granny's own presence. She could undoubtedly answer them, given enough time. On the whole, it was probably best just to get on with things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," she said, nodding. "Always very neat in her ways, was Desiderata."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it was the job," said Nanny Ogg, pushing past her and eyeing the room's contents speculatively. "You got to be able to keep track of things, in a job like hers. By gor', that's a bloody enormous cat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a lion," said Granny Weatherwax, looking at the stuffed head over the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Must've hit the wall at a hell of a speed, whatever it was," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone killed it," said Granny Weatherwax, surveying the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should think so," said Nanny. "If I'd seen something like that eatin' its way through the wall I'd of hit it myself with the poker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was of course no such thing as a typical witch's cottage, but if there was such a thing as a non-typical witch's cottage, then this was certainly it. Apart from various glassy-eyed animal heads, the walls were covered in bookshelves and water-colour pictures. There was a spear in the umbrella stand. Instead of the more usual earthenware and china on the dresser there were foreign-looking brass pots and fine blue porcelain. There wasn't a dried herb anywhere in the place but there were a great many books, most of them filled with Desiderata's small, neat handwriting. A whole table was covered with what were probably maps, meticulously drawn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax didn't like maps. She felt instinctively that they sold the landscape short.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She certainly got about a bit," said Nanny Ogg, picking up a carved ivory fan and flirting coquettishly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it was easy for her," said Granny, opening a few drawers. She ran her fingers along the top of the mantelpiece and looked at them critically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She could have found time to go over the place with a duster," she said vaguely. "I wouldn't go and die and leave my place in this state."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wonder where she left... you know... «?" said Nanny, opening the door of the grandfather clock and peering inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shame on you, Gytha Ogg," said Granny. "We're not here to look for that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course not. I was just wondering..." Nanny Ogg tried to stand on tiptoe surreptitiously, in order to see on top of the dresser.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha! For shame! Go and make us a cup of tea!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg disappeared, muttering, into the scullery. After a few seconds there came the creaking of a pump handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax sidled towards a chair and felt quickly under the cushion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a clatter from the next room. She straightened up hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think it'd be under the sink, neither," she shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's reply was inaudible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny waited a moment, and then crept rapidly over to the big chimney. She reached up and felt cautiously around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looking for something, Esme?" said Nanny Ogg behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The soot up here is terrible," said Granny, standing up quickly. "Terrible soot there is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not up there, then?" said Nanny Ogg sweetly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know what you're talking about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to pretend. Everyone knows she must have had one," said Nanny Ogg. "It goes with the job. It practic'ly is the job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... maybe I just wanted a look at it," Granny admitted. "Just hold it a while. Not use it. You wouldn't catch me using one of those things. I only ever saw it once or twice. There ain't many of ‘em around these days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded. "You can't get the wood," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't think she's been buried with it, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shouldn't think so. I wouldn't want to be buried with it. Thing like that, it's a bit of a responsibility. Anyway, it wouldn't stay buried. A thing like that wants to be used. It'd be rattling around your coffin the whole time. You know the trouble they are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She relaxed a bit. "I'll sort out the tea things," she said. "You light the fire."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wandered back into the scullery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax reached along the mantelpiece for the matches, and then realized that there wouldn't be any. Desiderata had always said she was much too busy not to use magic around the house. Even her laundry did itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny disapproved of magic for domestic purposes, but she was annoyed. She also wanted her tea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She threw a couple of logs into the fireplace and glared at them until they burst into flame out of sheer embarrassment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was then that her eye was caught by the shrouded mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coverin' it over?" she murmured. "I didn't know old Desiderata was frightened of thunderstorms."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She twitched aside the cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Very few people in the world had more self-control than Granny Weatherwax. It was as rigid as a bar of cast iron. And about as flexible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smashed the mirror.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith sat bolt upright in her tower of mirrors. Her?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face was different, of course. Older. It had been a long time. But eyes don't change, and witches always look at the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her!</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat Garlick, witch, was also standing in front of a mirror. In her case it was totally unmagical. It was also still in one piece, but there had been one or two close calls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She frowned at her reflection, and then consulted the small, cheaply-woodcut leaflet that had arrived the previous day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She mouthed a few words under her breath, straightened up, extended her hands in front of her, punched the air vigorously and said: "HAAAAiiiiieeeeeeehgh! Um."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat would be the first to admit that she had an open mind. It was as open as a field, as open as the sky. No mind could be more open without special surgical implements. And she was always waiting for something to fill it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What it was currently filling up with was the search for inner peace and cosmic harmony and the true essence of Being.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When people say ‘An idea came to me' it isn't just a metaphor. Raw inspirations, tiny particles of self-contained thought, are sleeting through the cosmos all the time. They get drawn to heads like Magrat's in the same way that water runs into a hole in the desert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was all due to her mother's lack of attention to spelling, she speculated. A caring parent would have spelled Margaret correctly. And then she could have been a Peggy, or a Maggie - big, robust names, full of reliability. There wasn't much you could do with a Magrat. It sounded like something that lived in a hole in a river bank and was always getting flooded out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She considered changing it, but knew in her secret heart that this would not work. Even if she became a Chloe or an Isobel on top she'd still be a Magrat underneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it would be nice to try. It'd be nice not to be a Magrat, even for a few hours.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's thoughts like this that start people on the road to Finding Themselves. And one of the earliest things Magrat had learned was that anyone Finding Themselves would be unwise to tell Granny Weatherwax, who thought that female emancipation was a women's complaint that shouldn't be discussed in front of men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was more sympathetic but had a tendency to come out with what Magrat thought of as double-intenders, although in Nanny Ogg's case they were generally single entendres and proud of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In short, Magrat had despaired of learning anything at all from her senior witches, and was casting her net further afield. Much further afield. About as far afield as a field could be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's a strange thing about determined seekers-after-wisdom that, no matter where they happen to be, they'll always seek that wisdom which is a long way off. Wisdom is one of the few things that looks bigger the further away it is.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Currently Magrat was finding herself through the Path of The Scorpion, which offered cosmic harmony, inner one-ness and the possibility of knocking an attacker's kidneys out through his ears. She'd sent off for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were problems. The author, Grand Master Lobsang Dibbler, had an address in Ankh-Morpork. This did not seem like a likely seat of cosmic wisdom. Also, although he'd put in lots of stuff about the Way not being used for aggression and only to be used for cosmic wisdom, this was in quite small print between enthusiastic drawings of people hitting one another with rice flails and going ‘Hai!" Later on you learned how to cut bricks in half with your hand and walk over red hot coals and other cosmic things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat thought that Ninja was a nice name for a girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She squared up to herself in the mirror again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a knock at the door. Magrat went and opened it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hai?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hurker the poacher took a step backwards. He was already rather shaken. An angry wolf had trailed him part of the way through the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," he said. He leaned forward, his shock changing to concern. "Have you hurt your head, Miss?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at him in incomprehension. Then realization dawned. She reached up and took off the headband with the chrysanthemum pattern on it, without which it is almost impossible to properly seek cosmic wisdom by twisting an opponent's elbows through 360 degrees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she said. "What do you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got a package for you," said Hurker, presenting it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was about two feet long, and very thin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a note," said Hurker helpfully. He shuffled around as she unfolded it, and tried to read it over her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's private," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it?" said Hurker, agreeably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was tole you'd give me a penny for delivering it," said the poacher. Magrat found one in her purse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Money forges the chains which bind the labouring classes," she warned, handing it over. Hurker, who had never thought of himself as a labouring class in his life, but who was prepared to listen to almost any amount of gibberish in exchange for a penny, nodded innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I hope your head gets better, Miss," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Magrat was left alone in her kitchen-cum-dojo she unwrapped the parcel. It contained one slim white rod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at the note again. It said, "I niver had time to Trane a replaysment so youll have to Do. You must goe to the city of Genua. I would of done thys myself only cannot by reason of bein dead. Ella Saturday muste NOTTE marry the prins. PS This is importent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at her reflection in the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down at the note again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"PSPS Tell those 2 Olde Biddys they are Notte to come with Youe, they will onlie Ruine everythin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"PSPSPS It has tendincy to resett to pumpkins but you will gett the hange of it in noe time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked at the mirror again. And then down at the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One minute life is simple, and then suddenly it stretches away full of complications.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, my," she said. "I'm a fairy godmother!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was still standing staring at the crazily-webbed fragments when Nanny Ogg ran in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme Weatherwax, what have you done? That's bad luck, that is... Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her? Her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax screwed up her eyes for a moment, and then shook her head as if trying to dislodge an unthinkable thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've gone all pale. Never seen you go all pale like that before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny slowly removed a fragment of glass from her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... bit of a turn, the glass breaking like that..." she mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked at Granny Weatherwax's hand. It was bleeding. Then she looked at Granny Weatherwax's face, and decided that she'd never admit that she'd looked at Granny Weatherwax's hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could be a sign," she said, randomly selecting a safe topic. "Once someone dies, you get that sort of thing. Pictures fallin' off walls, clocks stopping... great big wardrobes falling down the stairs... that sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never believed in that stuff, it's... what do you mean, wardrobes falling down the stairs?" said Granny. She was breathing deeply. If it wasn't well known that Granny Weatherwax was tough, anyone might have thought she had just had the shock of her life and was practically desperate to take part in a bit of ordinary everyday bickering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what happened after my Great-Aunt Sophie died," said Nanny Ogg. "Three days and four hours and six minutes to the very minute after she died, her wardrobe fell down the stairs. Our Darren and our Jason were trying to get it round the bend and it sort of slipped, just like that. Uncanny. Weeell, I wasn't going to leave it there for her Agatha, was I, only ever visited her mum on Hogswatchday, and it was me that nursed Sophie all the way through to the end - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny let the familiar, soothing litany of Nanny Ogg's family feud wash over her as she groped for the teacups.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Oggs were what is known as an extended family - in fact not only extended but elongated, protracted and persistent. No normal sheet of paper could possibly trace their family tree, which in any case was more like a mangrove thicket. And every single branch had a low-key, chronic vendetta against every other branch, based on such well-established causes celebres as What Their Kevin Said About Our Stan At Cousin Di's Wedding and Who Got The Silver Cutlery That Auntie Em Promised Our Doreen Was To Have After She Died, I'd Like To Know, Thank You Very Much, If You Don't Mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg, as undisputed matriarch, encouraged all sides indiscriminately. It was the nearest thing she had to a hobby.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Oggs contained, in just one family, enough feuds to keep an entire Ozark of normal hillbillies going for a century.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And sometimes this encouraged a foolish outsider to join in and perhaps make an uncomplimentary remark about one Ogg to another Ogg. Whereupon every single Ogg would turn on him, every part of the family closing up together like the parts of a well-oiled, blue-steeled engine to deal instant merciless destruction to the interloper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramtop people believed that the Ogg feud was a blessing. The thought of them turning their immense energy on the world in general was a terrible one. Fortunately, there was no-one an Ogg would rather fight than another Ogg. It was family.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Odd things, families, when you came to think of it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme? You all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got them cups rattling like nobody's business! And tea all over the tray."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down blankly at the mess, and rallied as best she could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not my damn fault if the damn cups are too small," she muttered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Morning, Magrat," she added, without looking around. "What're you doing here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was something about the way the hinges creaked. Magrat could even open a door apologetically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The younger witch sidled speechlessly into the room, face beetroot red, arms held behind her back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'd just popped in to sort out Desiderata's things, as our duty to a sister witch," said Granny loudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And not to look for her magic wand," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha Ogg!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked momentarily guilty, and then hung her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat brought her arms around in front of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," she said, and blushed further.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You found it!" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh, no," said Magrat, not daring to look Granny in the eyes. "Desiderata gave it to... me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence crackled and hummed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She gave it to you?" said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh. Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny and Granny looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well!" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She does know you, doesn't she?" demanded Granny, turning back to Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I used to come over here quite often to look at her books," Magrat confessed. "And... and she liked to cook foreign food and no-one else round here would eat it, so I'd come up to keep her company."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah-hal Curryin' favour!" snapped Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I never thought she'd leave me the wand," said Magrat. "Really I didn't!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's probably some mistake," said Nanny Ogg kindly. "She probably wanted you to give it to one of us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That'll be it, right enough," said Granny. "She knew you were good at running errands and so on. Let's have a look at it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held out her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat's knuckles tightened on the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... she gave it me..." she said, in a tiny voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her mind was definitely wandering towards the end," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... she gave it me..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fairy godmotherin's a terrible responsibility," said Nanny. "You got to be resourceful and flexible and tactful and able to deal with complicated affairs of the heart and stuff. Desiderata would have known that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... yes, but she gave it me..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat Garlick, as senior witch I command you to give me the wand," said Granny. "They cause nothing but trouble!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold on, hold on," said Nanny. "That's going a bit far-‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... no..." said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, you ain't senior witch," said Nanny. "Old Mother Dismass is older'n you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up. Anyway, she's non compost mental," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... you can't order me. Witches are non-hierarchical..." said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is wanton behaviour, Magrat Garlick!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No it's not," said Nanny Ogg, trying to keep the peace. "Wanton behaviour is where you go around without wearing any - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped. Both of the older witches watched a small piece of paper fall out of Magrat's sleeve and zigzag down to the floor. Granny darted forward and snatched it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aha!" she said triumphantly. "Let's see what Desiderata really said..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her lips moved as she read the note. Magrat tried to wind herself up tighter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of muscles flickered on Granny's face. Then, calmly, she screwed up the note.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just as I thought," she said, "Desiderata says we are to give Magrat all the help we can, what with her being young and everything. Didn't she, Magrat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked up into Granny's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You could call her out, she thought. The note was very clear... well, the bit about the older witches was, anyway... and you could make her read it aloud. It's as plain as day. Do you want to be third witch forever? And then the flame of rebellion, burning in a very unfamiliar hearth, died.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," she muttered hopelessly, "something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It says it's very important we go to some place somewhere to help someone marry a prince," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Genua," said Magrat. "I looked it up in Desiderata's books. And we've got to make sure she doesn't marry a prince."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A fairy godmother stopping a girl from marryin" a prince?" said Nanny. "Sounds a bit... contrary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should be an easy enough wish to grant, anyway," said Granny. "Millions of girls don't marry a prince."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat made an effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Genua really is a long way away," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should ‘ope so," said Granny Weatherwax. "The last thing we want is foreign parts up close."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean, there'll be a lot of travelling," said Magrat wretchedly. "And you're... not as young as you were."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a long, crowded silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We start tomorrow," said Granny Weatherwax firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look," said Magrat desperately, "why don't I go by myself?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos you ain't experienced at fairy godmothering," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was too much even for Magrat's generous soul.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, nor are you," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's true," Granny conceded. "But the point is... the point is... the point is we've not been experienced for a lot longer than you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got a lot of experience of not having any experience," said Nanny Ogg happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what counts every time," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only one small, speckled mirror in Granny's house. When she got home, she buried it at the bottom of the garden.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There," she said. "Now trying spyin' on me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It never seemed possible to people that Jason Ogg, master blacksmith and farrier, was Nanny Ogg's son. He didn't look as if he could possibly have been born, but as if he must have been constructed. In a shipyard. To his essentially slow and gentle nature genetics had seen fit to add muscles that should have gone to a couple of bullocks, arms like treetrunks, and legs like four beer barrels stacked in twos.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To his glowing forge were brought the stud stallions, the red-eyed and foam-flecked kings of the horse nation, the soup-plate-hoofed beasts that had kicked lesser men through walls. But Jason Ogg knew the secret of the mystic Horseman's Word, and he would go alone into the forge, politely shut the door, and lead the creature out again after half an hour, newly shod and strangely docile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind his huge brooding shape clustered the rest of Nanny Ogg's endless family and a lot of other townsfolk who, seeing some interesting activity involving witches, couldn't resist the opportunity for what was known in the Ramtops as a good oggle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'm off then, our Jason," said Nanny Ogg. "They do say the streets in foreign parts are paved with gold. I could prob'ly make my fortune, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason's hairy brow creased in intense thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Us could do with a new anvil down forge," he volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I come back rich, you won't never have to go down the forge ever again," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I likes t'forge," he said, slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked momentarily taken aback. "Well, then -then you shall have an anvil made of solid silver."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wunt be no good, ma. It'd be too soft," said Jason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I brings you back an anvil made of solid silver you shall have an anvil made of solid silver, my lad, whether you likes it or not!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason hung his huge head. "Yes, mum," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see to it that someone comes in to keep the house aired every day reg'lar," said Nanny. "I want a fire lit in that grate every morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, mum."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And everyone's to go in through the back door, you hear? I've put a curse on the front porch. Where's those girls got to with my luggage?" She scurried off, a small grey bantam scolding a flock of hens.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat listened to all this with interest. Her own preparations had consisted of a large sack containing several changes of clothes to accommodate whatever weather foreign parts might suffer from, and a rather smaller one containing a number of useful-looking books from Desiderata Hollow's cottage. Desiderata had been a great note-taker, and had filled dozens of little books with neat writing and chapter headings like ‘With Wand and Broomstick Across the Great Nef Desert".</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What she had never bothered to do, it seemed, was write down any instructions for the wand. As far as Magrat knew, you waved it and wished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Along the track to her cottage, several unanticipated pumpkins bore witness to this as an unreliable strategy. One of them still thought it was a stoat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now Magrat was left alone with Jason, who shuffled his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched his forelock. He'd been brought up to be respectful to women, and Magrat fell broadly into this category.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You will look after our mum, won't you, Mistress Garlick?" he said, a hint of worry in his voice. "She'm acting awful strange."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat patted him gently on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This sort of thing happens all the time," she said. "You know, after a woman's raised a family and so on, she wants to start living her own life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whose life she bin living, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat gave him a puzzled look. She hadn't questioned the wisdom of the thought when it had first arrived in her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, what it is," she said, making an explanation up as she went along, "there comes a time in a woman's life when she wants to find herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why dint she start looking here?" said Jason plaintively. "I mean, I ain't wanting to talk out of turn, Miss Garlick, but we was looking to you to persuade her and Mistress Weatherwax not to go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried," said Magrat. "I really did. I said, you don't want to go, I said. Anno domini, I said. Not as young as you used to be, I said. Silly to go hundreds of miles just for something like this, especially at your age."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason put his head on one side. Jason Ogg wouldn't end up in the finals of the All-Discworld uptake speed trials, but he knew his own mother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said all that to our mum?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, don't worry," said Magrat, "I'm sure no harm can- "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crash somewhere over their heads. A few autumn leaves spiralled gently towards the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloody tree... who put that bloody tree there?" came a voice from on high.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That'll be Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was one of the weak spots of Granny Weatherwax's otherwise well-developed character that she'd never bothered to get the hang of steering things. It was alien to her nature. She took the view that it was her job to move and the rest of the world to arrange itself so that she arrived at her destination. This meant that she occasionally had to climb down trees she'd never climbed up. This she did now, dropping the last few feet and daring anyone to comment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, now we're all here," said Magrat brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It didn't work. Granny Weatherwax's eyes focused immediately somewhere around Magrat's knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what do you think you're wearing?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Um. I thought... I mean, it gets cold up there... what with the wind and everything," Magrat began. She had been dreading this, and hating herself for being so weak. After all, they were practical. The idea had come to her one night. Apart from anything else, it was almost impossible to do Air Lobsang Dibbler's cosmic harmony death kicks when your legs kept getting tangled in a skirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trousers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not exactly the same as ordinary - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there's men ‘ere lookin'," said Granny. "I think it's shameful!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is?" said Nanny Ogg, coming up behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat Garlick, standin' there bifurcated," said Granny, sticking her nose in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just so long as she got the young man's name and address," said Nanny Ogg amiably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny!" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think they look quite comfy," Nanny went on. "A bit baggy, though."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't ‘old with it," said Granny. "Everyone can see her legs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No they can't," said Nanny. "The reason being, the material is in the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but they can see where her legs are," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's silly. That's like saying everyone's naked under their clothes," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat Garlick, may you be forgiven," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's true!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not," said Granny flatly, "I got three vests on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked Nanny up and down; Gytha Ogg, too, had made sartorial preparations for foreign parts. Granny Weatherwax could find little to disapprove of, although she made an effort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And will you look at your hat," she mumbled. Nanny, who had known Esme Weatherwax for seventy years, merely grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All the go, ain't it?" she said. "Made by Mr Vernissage over in Slice. It's got willow reinforcing all the way up to the point and eighteen pockets inside. Can stop a blow with a hammer, this hat. And how about these?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny raised the hem of her skirt. She was wearing new boots. As boots, Granny Weatherwax could find nothing to complain of in them. They were of proper witch construction, which is to say that a loaded cart could have run over them without causing a dent in the dense leather. As boots, the only thing wrong with them was the colour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Red?" said Granny. "That's no colour for a witch's boots!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I likes ‘em," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sniffed. "You can please yourself, I'm sure," she said. "I'm sure in foreign parts they goes in for all sorts of outlandish things. But you know what they say about women who wear red boots."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just so long as they also say they've got dry feet," said Nanny cheerfully. She put her door key into Jason's hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll write you letters if you promise to find someone to read them to you," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, mum. What about the cat, mum?" said Jason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Greebo's coming with us," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? But he's a cat!" snapped Granny Weatherwax. "You can't take cats with you! I'm not going travellin' with no cat! It's bad enough travellin' with trousers and provocative boots!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'll miss his mummy if he's left behind, won't he," crooned Nanny Ogg, picking up Greebo. He hung limply, like a bag of water gripped around the middle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To Nanny Ogg Greebo was still the cute little kitten that chased balls of wool around the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To the rest of the world he was an enormous tomcat, a parcel of incredibly indestructible life forces in a skin that looked less like a fur than a piece of bread that had been left in a damp place for a fortnight. Strangers often took pity on him because his ears were non-existent and his face looked as though a bear had camped on it. They could not know that this was because Greebo, as a matter of feline pride, would attempt to fight or rape absolutely anything, up to and including a four-horse logging wagon. Ferocious dogs would whine and hide under the stairs when Greebo sauntered down the street. Foxes kept away from the village. Wolves made a detour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's an old softy really," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo turned upon Granny Weatherwax a yellow-eyed stare of self-satisfied malevolence, such as cats always reserve for people who don't like them, and purred. Greebo was possibly the only cat who could snigger in purr.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway," said Nanny, "witches are supposed to like cats."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not cats like him, they're not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're just not a cat person, Esme," said Nanny, cuddling Greebo tightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason Ogg pulled Magrat aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our Gran read to me in the almanac where there's all these fearsome wild beasts in foreign parts," he whispered. "Huge hairy things that leap out on travellers, it said. I'd hate to think what'd happen if they leapt out on mum and Granny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked up into his big red face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You will see no harm comes to them, won't you," said Jason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you worry," she said, hoping that he needn't. "I'll do my best."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jason nodded. "Only it said in the almanac that some of them were nearly extinct anyway," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was well up when the three witches spiralled into the sky. They had been delayed for a while because of the intractability of Granny Weatherwax's broomstick, the starting of which always required a great deal of galloping up and down. It never seemed to get the message until it was being shoved through the air at a frantic running speed. Dwarf engineers everywhere had confessed themselves totally mystified by it. They had replaced the stick and the bristles dozens of times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When it rose, eventually, it was to a chorus of cheers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tiny kingdom of Lancre occupied little more than a wide ledge cut into the side of the Ramtop mountains. Behind it, knife-edge peaks and dark winding valleys climbed into the massive backbone of the central ranges.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In front, the land dropped abruptly to the Sto plains, a blue haze of woodlands, a broader expanse of ocean and, somewhere in the middle of it all, a brown smudge known as Ankh-Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A skylark sang, or at least started to sing. The rising point of Granny Weatherwax's hat right underneath it completely put it off the rhythm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't going any higher," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If we go high enough we might be able to see where we're going," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said you looked at Desiderata's maps," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It looks different from up here, though," said Magrat. "More... sticking up. But I think we go... that way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which was the wrong question to ask a witch. Especially if the person doing the asking was Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Positive," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked up at the high peaks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a lot of big mountains that way," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They rose tier on tier, speckled with snow, trailing endless pennants of ice crystals high overhead. No-one ski'd in the high Ramtops, at least for more than a few feet and a disappearing scream. No-one ran up them wearing dirndls and singing. They were not nice mountains. They were the kind of mountains where winters went for their summer holidays.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's passes and things through them," said Magrat uncertainly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bound to be," said Nanny.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">You can use two mirrors like this, if you know the way of it: you set them so that they reflect each other. For if images can steal a bit of you, then images of images can amplify you, feeding you back on yourself, giving you power...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And your image extends forever, in reflections of reflections of reflections, and every image is the same, all the way around the curve of light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except that it isn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mirrors contain infinity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Infinity contains more things than you think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everything, for a start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Including hunger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because there's a million billion images and only one soul to go around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mirrors give plenty, but they take away lots.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mountains unfolded to reveal more mountains. Clouds gathered, heavy and grey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure we're going the right way," said Magrat. Freezing rock stretched away. The witches flew along a maze of twisty little canyons, all alike.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you won't let me fly high enough," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's going to snow like blazes in a minute," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was early evening. Light was draining out of the high valleys like custard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought... there'd be villages and things," said Magrat, "where we could buy interesting native produce and seek shelter in rude huts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You wouldn't even get trolls up here," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three broomsticks glided down into a bare valley, a mere notch in the mountain side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it's bloody cold," said Nanny Ogg. She grinned. "Why're they called rude huts, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax climbed off her broomstick and looked at the rocks around her. She picked up a stone and sniffed it. She wandered over to a heap of scree that looked like any other heap of scree to Magrat, and prodded it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few snow crystals landed on her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, well," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you doing, Granny?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cogitatin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny walked to the valley's steep side and strolled along it, peering at the rock. Nanny Ogg joined her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Up here?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘S a bit high for ‘em, ain't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Little devils get everywhere. Had one come up in my kitchen once," said Granny." "Following a seam", he said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're buggers for that," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you mind telling me," said Magrat, "what you're doing? What's so interesting about heaps of stones?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snow was falling faster now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They ain't stones, they're spoil," said Granny. She reached a flat wall of ice-covered rock, no different in Magrat's eyes from the rock available in a range of easy-to-die-on sizes everywhere in the mountains, and paused as if listening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she stood back, hit the rock sharply with her broomstick, and spake thusly:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Open up, you little sods!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg kicked the rock. It made a hollow boom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's people catching their death of cold out here!" she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing happened for a while. Then a section of rock swung in a few inches. Magrat saw the glint of a suspicious eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dwarfs?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax leaned down until her nose was level with the eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name," she said, "is Granny Weatherwax."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She straightened up again, her face glowing with self-satisfaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's that, then?" said a voice from somewhere below the eye. Granny's expression froze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nudged her partner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We must be more'n fifty miles away from home," she said. "They might not have heard of you in these parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny leaned down again. Accumulated snowflakes cascaded off her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't blaming you," she said, "but I know you'll have a King in there, so just you go and tell him Granny Weatherwax is here, will you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's very busy," said the voice. "We've just had a bit of trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I'm sure he don't want any more," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The invisible speaker appeared to give this some consideration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We put writing on the door," it said sulkily. "In invisible runes. It's really expensive, getting proper invisible runes done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't go around readin' doors," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The speaker hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Weatherwax, did you say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. With a W. As in "witch"."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door slammed. When it was shut, there was barely a visible crack in the rock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snow was falling fast now. Granny Weatherwax jiggled up and down a bit to keep warm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's foreigners for you," she said, to the frozen world in general.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you can call dwarfs foreigners," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't see why not," said Granny. "A dwarf who lives a long way off has got to be foreign. That's what foreign means."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Funny to think of it like that," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched the door, their breath forming three little clouds in the darkening air. Magrat peered at the stone door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't see any invisible runes," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Corse not," said Nanny. "That's ‘cos they're invisible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Granny Weatherwax. "Don't be daft."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door swung open again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I spoke to the King," said the voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what did he say?" said Granny expectantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He said, "Oh, no! Not on top of everything else!"'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny beamed. "I knew ‘e would have heard of me," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the same way that there are a thousand Kings of the Gypsies, so there are a thousand Kings of the Dwarfs. The term means something like ‘senior engineer'. There aren't any Queens of the Dwarfs. Dwarfs are very reticent about revealing their sex, which most of them don't consider to be very important compared to things like metallurgy and hydraulics.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This king was standing in the middle of a crowd of shouting miners. He looked up at the witches with the expression of a drowning man looking at a drink of water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you really any good?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think ‘e's talking to you, Magrat," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only we've had a big fall in gallery nine," said the King. "It looks bad. A very promising vein of gold-bearing quartz is irretrievably trapped."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the dwarfs beside him muttered something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yeah. And some of the lads," said the King vaguely. "And then you turn up. So the way I look at it, it's probably fate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax shook the snow off her hat and looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was impressed, despite herself. You didn't often see proper dwarf halls these days. Most dwarfs were off earning big money in the cities down in the lowlands, where it was much easier to be a dwarf - for one thing, you didn't have to spend most of your time underground hitting your thumb with a hammer and worrying about fluctuations in the international metal markets. Lack of respect for tradition, that was the trouble these days. And take trolls. There were more trolls in Ankh-Morpork now than in the whole mountain range. Granny Weatherwax had nothing against trolls but she felt instinctively that if more trolls stopped wearing suits and walking upright, and went back to living under bridges and jumping out and eating people as nature intended, then the world would be a happier place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd better show us where the problem is," she said. "Lots of rocks fallen down, have they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pardon?" said the King.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's often said that eskimos have fifty words for snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is not true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's also said that dwarfs have two hundred words for rock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They don't. They have no words for rock, in the same way that fish have no words for water. They do have words for igneous rock, sedimentary rock, metamorphic rock, rock underfoot, rock dropping on your helmet from above, and rock which looked interesting and which they could have sworn they left here yesterday. But what they don't have is a word meaning ‘rock'. Show a dwarf a rock and he sees, for example, an inferior piece of crystalline sulphite of barytes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or, in this case, about two hundred tons of lowgrade shale. When the witches arrived at the disaster site dozens of dwarfs were working feverishly to prop the cracked roof and cart away the debris. Some of them were in tears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's terrible... terrible," muttered one of them. "A terrible thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat lent him her handkerchief. He blew his nose noisily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could mean a big slippage on the fault line and then we've lost the whole seam," he said, shaking his head. Another dwarf patted him on the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look on the bright side," he said. "We can always drive a horizontal shaft off gallery fifteen. We're bound to pick it up again, don't you worry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," said Magrat, "there are dwarfs behind all that stuff, are there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes," said the King. His tone suggested that this was merely a regrettable side-effect of the disaster, because getting fresh dwarfs was only a matter of time whereas decent gold-bearing rock was a finite resource.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax inspected the rockfall critically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We shall have to have everyone out of here," she said. "This is goin' to have to be private."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know how it is," said the King. "Craft secrets, I expect?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like that," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King shooed the other dwarfs out of the tunnel, leaving the witches alone in the lantern light. A few bits of rock fell out of the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've gone and done it now," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anything's possible if you set your mind to it," said Granny vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you'd better set yours good and hard, Esme. If the Creator had meant us to shift rocks by witchcraft, he wouldn't have invented shovels. Knowing when to use a shovel is what being a witch is all about. And put down that wheelbarrow, Magrat. You don't know nothing about machinery."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, then," said Magrat. "Why don't we try the wand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax snorted. "Hah! Here? Whoever heard of a fairy godmother in a mine?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I was stuck behind a load of rocks under a mountain I'd want to hear of one," said Magrat hotly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded. "She's got a point there, Esme. There's no rule about where you fairy godmother."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't trust that wand," said Granny. "It looks wizardly to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on," said Magrat, "generations of fairy godmothers have used it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny flung her hands in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, all right, all right," she snapped. "Go ahead! Make yourself look daft!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat took the wand out of her bag. She'd been dreading this moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was made of some sort of bone or ivory; Magrat hoped it wasn't ivory. There had been markings on it once, but generations of plump fairy godmotherly hands had worn them almost smooth. Various gold and silver rings were set into the wand. Nowhere were there any instructions. Not so much as a rune or a sigil anywhere on its length indicated what you were supposed to do with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you're supposed to wave it," said Nanny Ogg. "I'm pretty sure it's something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax folded her arms. "That's not proper witching," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat gave the wand an experimental wave. Nothing happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps you have to say something?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked panicky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do fairy godmothers say?" she wailed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said Nanny, "dunno."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh!" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sighed. "Didn't Desiderata tell you anything?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just do your best, then," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat stared at the pile of rocks. She shut her eyes. She took a deep breath. She tried to make her mind a serene picture of cosmic harmony. It was all very well for monks to go on about cosmic harmony, she reflected, when they were nicely tucked away on snowy mountains with only yetis to worry about. They never tried seeking inner peace with Granny Weatherwax glaring at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waved the wand in a vague way and tried to put pumpkins out of her mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt the air move. She heard Nanny gasp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She said, "Has anything happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while Nanny Ogg said, "Yeah. Sort of. I hope they're hungry, that's all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Granny Weathenvax said, "That's fairy godmothering, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat opened her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was still a heap, but it wasn't rock any more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a, wait for it, there's a bit of a squash in here," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat opened her eyes wider.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Still pumpkins?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bit of a squash. Squash," said Nanny, in case anyone hadn't got it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The top of the heap moved. A couple of small pumpkins rolled down almost to Magrat's feet, and a small dwarfish face appeared in the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stared down at the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually Nanny Ogg said, "Everything all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf nodded. Its attention kept turning to the pile of pumpkins that filled the tunnel from floor to ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, yes," it said. "Is dad there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dad?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The King."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh." Nanny Ogg cupped her hands around her mouth and turned to face up the tunnel. "Hey, King!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarfs appeared. They looked at the pumpkins, too. The King stepped forward and stared up into the face of his son.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything all right, son?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right, dad. No faulting or anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King sagged with relief. Then, as an afterthought, he added, "Everyone all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, dad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was quite worried for a time there. Thought we might have hit a section of conglomerate or something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just a patch of loose shale, dad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good." The King looked at the heap again. He scratched his beard. "Can't help noticing you seem to have struck pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought it was an odd kind of sandstone, dad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King walked back to the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you turn anything into anything?" he said hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked sideways at Magrat, who was still staring at the wand in a sort of shock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we only do pumpkins at the moment," she said cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King looked a little disappointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, then," he said, "if there's anything I can do for you ladies... a cup of tea or something..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stepped forward. "I was just thinking something like that myself," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King beamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only more expensive," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The King stopped beaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sidled up to Magrat, who was shaking the wand and staring at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very clever," she whispered. "Why'd you think of pumpkins?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you know how to work it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No! I thought you just had to, you know, want something to happen!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's probably more to it than just wishing," said Nanny, as sympathetically as possible. "There generally is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some time around dawn, in so far as dawn happened in the mines, the witches were led to a river somewhere deep in the mountains, where a couple of barges were moored. A small boat was pulled up to a stone jetty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This'll take you right through the mountains," said the King. "I think it goes all the way to Genua, to tell the truth." He took a large basket off an attendant dwarf. "And we've packed you some lovely food," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are we going to go all the way in a boat?" said Magrat. She gave the wand a few surreptitious flourishes. "I'm not good at boats."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen," said Granny, climbing aboard, "the river knows its way out of the mountains, which is more than we do. We can use the brooms later on, where the landscape's acting a bit more sensible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And we can have a bit of a rest," said Nanny, sitting back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked at the two older witches, who were making themselves comfortable in the stern like a couple of hens settling down on a nest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know how to row a boat?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't have to," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat nodded gloomily. Then a tiny bit of self-assertion flashed a fin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think I do, too," she ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's all right," said Nanny. "If we sees you doing anything wrong, we'll be sure to tell you. Cheerio, your kingship."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat sighed, and picked up the oars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The flat bits go in the water," said Granny helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarfs waved. The boat drifted out into midstream, moving slowly in a circle of lantern light. Magrat found that all she really had to do was keep it pointing the right way in the current.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She heard Nanny say: "Beats me why they're always putting invisible runes on their doors. I mean, you pays some wizard to put invisible runes on your door, and how do you know you've got value for money?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She heard Granny say: "No problem there. If you can't see ‘em, you know you've got proper invisible runes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She heard Nanny say: "Ah, that'd be it. Right, let's see what we've got for lunch." There was a rustling noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, well, well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it, Gytha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pumpkin what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pumpkin nothing. Just pumpkin pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I suppose they've got a lot of pumpkin," said Magrat. "You know how it is at the end of the summer, there's always so much in the garden. I'm always at my wits' end to think of new types of chutney and pickles to use it all up - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the dim light she could see Granny's face which seemed to be suggesting that if Magrat was at her wits' end, it was a short stroll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I," said Granny, "have never made a pickle in my life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you like pickles," said Magrat. Witches and pickles went together like - she hesitated before the stomach-curdling addition of peaches and cream, and mentally substituted ‘things that went together very well'. The sight of Nanny Ogg's single remaining tooth at work on a pickled onion could bring tears to the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I likes ‘em fine," said Granny. "I gets ‘em given to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said Nanny, investigating the recesses of the basket, "whenever I deals with dwarfs, the phrase "Duck's arse" swims across my mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mean little devils. You should see the prices they tries to charge me when I takes my broom to be repaired," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but you never pay," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not the point," said Granny Weatherwax. "They shouldn't be allowed to charge that sort of money. That's thievin', that is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see how it can be thieving if you don't pay anyway," Magrat persisted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never pay for anything," said Granny. "People never let me pay. I can't help it if people gives me things the whole time, can I? When I walks down the street people are always running out with cakes they've just baked, and fresh beer, and old clothes that've hardly been worn at all. "Oh, Mistress Weatherwax, pray take this basket of eggs", they say. People are always very kind. Treat people right an' they'll treat you right. That's respect. Not having to pay," she finished, sternly, "is what bein' a witch is all about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here, what's this?" said Nanny, pulling out a small packet. She unwrapped the paper and revealed several hard brown discs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word," said Granny Weatherwax, "I take it all back. That's the famous dwarf bread, that is. They don't give that to just anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tapped it on the edge of the boat. It made a noise very similar to the kind of noise you get when a wooden ruler is held over the edge of a desk and plucked; a sort of hollow boioioing sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say it never goes stale even if you stores it for years," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'd keep you going for days and days," said Nanny Ogg-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat reached across, took one of the flat loaves, tried to break it, and gave up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're supposed to eat it?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I don't think it's for eating," said Nanny. "It's more for sort of - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" - keeping you going," said Granny. "They say that - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above the noise of the river and the occasional drip of water from the ceiling they could all hear, now, the steady slosh-slosh of another craft heading towards them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone's following us!" hissed Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two pale glows appeared at the edge of the lamplight. Eventually they turned out to be the eyes of a small grey creature, vaguely froglike, paddling towards them on a log.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reached the boat. Long clammy fingers grabbed the side, and a lugubrious face rose level with Nanny Ogg's.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘ullo," it said. "It'sss my birthday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All three of them stared at it for a while. Then Granny Weatherwax picked up an oar and hit it firmly over the head. There was a splash, and a distant cursing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Horrible little bugger," said Granny, as they rowed on. "Looked like a troublemaker to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Nanny Ogg. "It's the slimy ones you have to watch out for."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wonder what he wanted?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After half an hour the boat drifted out through a cave mouth and into a narrow gorge between cliffs. Ice glistened on the walls, and there were drifts of snow on some of the outcrops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked around guilelessly, and then fumbled somewhere in the depths of her many skirts and produced a small bottle. There was a glugging noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet there's a fine echo here," she said, after a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh no you don't," said Granny firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't sing That Song."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pardon, Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't going," said Granny, "if you insists on singing That Song."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What song would that be?" said Nanny innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know the song to whom I am referring," said Granny icily. "You always get drunk and let me down and sing it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't recall any song like that, Esme," said Nanny Ogg meekly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The one," said Granny, "about the rodent that can't -that can't ever be persuaded to care about anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," said Nanny, beaming as light dawned, "you mean The Hedgehog Can Never Be Bugg- "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the one!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it's traditional," said Nanny. "Anyway, in foreign parts people won't know what the words mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They will the way you sings them," said Granny. "The way you sings them, creatures what lives on the bottoms of ponds'd know what they mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked over the side of the boat. Here and there the ripples were edged with white. The current was running a bit faster, and there were lumps of ice in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's only a folk song, Esme," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!" said Granny Weatherwax. "I should just say it is a folk song! I knows all about folk songs. Hah! You think you're listenin' to a nice song about... about cuckoos and fiddlers and nightingales and whatnot, and then it turns out to be about... about something else entirely," she added darkly. "You can't trust folk songs. They always sneak up on you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat fended them off a rock. An eddy spun them around slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know one about two little bluebirds," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They may start out by being bluebirds, but I bet they ends up some kind of mettyfor," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was bad enough Magrat telling me about maypoles and what's behind ‘em," said Granny. She added, wistfully, "I used to enjoy looking at a maypole of a spring morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think the river's getting a bit sort of rough," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see why people can't just let things be," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean really quite rough, really..." said Magrat, pushing them away from a jagged rock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's right, you know," said Nanny Ogg. "It's a bit on the choppy side."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked over Magrat's shoulder at the river ahead. It had a cut-off look, such as might be associated with, for example, an imminent waterfall. The boat was now surging along. There was a muted roar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They never said anything about a waterfall," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ‘spect they thought we'd find out for ourselves," said Nanny Ogg, gathering up her possessions and hauling Greebo out of the bottom of the boat by the scruff of his neck. "Very sparin' with information, your average dwarf. Thank goodness witches float. Anyway, they knew we'd got the brooms."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got brooms," said Granny Weatherwax. "How'm I supposed to get mine started in a boat? Can't run up and down, can I? And stop movin' about like that, you'll have us all over - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get your foot out of the way, Esme - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The boat rocked violently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat rose to the occasion. She pulled out the wand, just as a wavelet washed over the boat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry," she said, "I'll use the wand. I think I've got the hang of it now - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No!" screamed Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a large, damp noise. The boat changed shape. It also changed colour. It became a cheery sort of orange.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pumpkins!" screamed Nanny Ogg, as she was gently tipped into the water. "More bloody pumpkins!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith sat back. The ice around the river hadn't been that good as a mirror, but it had been good enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well. A wishy-washy overgrown girl more suitable to the attentions of a fairy godmother than to being one, and a little old washerwoman-type who got drunk and sang songs. And a wand the stupid girl didn't know how to use.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was annoying. More than that, it was demeaning. Surely Desiderata and Mrs Gogol could have achieved something better than this. You derived status by the strength of your enemies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, there was her. After all this time...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course. She approved of that. Because there would have to be three of them. Three was an important number for stories. Three wishes, three princes, three billy goats, three guesses... three witches. The maiden, the mother and the... other one. That was one of the oldest stories of all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Esme Weatherwax had never understood stories. She'd never understood how real reflections were. If she had, she'd probably have been ruling the world by now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're always looking in mirrors!" said a petulant voice. "I hate it when you're always looking in mirrors!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Duc sprawled in a chair in one corner, all black silk and well-turned legs. Lilith would not normally allow anyone inside the nest of mirrors but it was, technically, his castle. Besides, he was too vain and stupid to know what was going on. She'd seen to that. At least, she'd thought she had. Lately, he seemed to be picking things up...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know why you have to do that," he whined. "I thought magic was just a matter of pointing and going whoosh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith picked up her hat, and glanced at a mirror as she adjusted it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This way's safer," she said. "It's self-contained. When you use mirror magic, you don't have to rely on anyone except yourself. That's why no-one's ever conquered the world with magic... yet. They try to take it from... other places. And there's always a price. But with mirrors, you're beholden to no-one but your own soul."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She lowered the veil from the hat brim. She preferred the privacy of a veil, outside the security of the mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hate mirrors," muttered the Duc.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's because they tell you the truth, my lad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's cruel magic, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith tweaked the veil into a fetching shape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. With mirrors, all the power is your own. There's nowhere else it can come from," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The swamp woman gets it from the swamp," said the Duc.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ha! And it'll claim her one day. She doesn't understand what she's doing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt a pang of pride. He was actually resenting her! She really had done a good job there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I understand stories," she said. "That's all I need."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you haven't brought me the girl," said the Duc. "You promised me the girl. And then it'll be all over and I can sleep in a real bed and I won't need any more reflecting magic —"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But even a good job can go too far.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've had your fill of magic?" said Lilith sweetly. "You'd like me to stop? It would be the easiest thing in the world. I found you in the gutter. Would you like me to send you back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face became a mask of panic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't mean that! I just meant... well, then everything will be real. Just one kiss, you said. I can't see why that's so hard to arrange."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The right kiss at the right time," said Lilith. "It has to be at the right time, otherwise it won't work." She smiled. He was trembling, partly out of lust, mainly out of terror, and slightly out of heredity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry," she said. "It can't not happen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And these witches you showed me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're just... part of the story. Don't worry about them. The story will just absorb them. And you'll get her because of stories. Won't that be nice? And now... shall we go? I expect you've got some ruling to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the inflexion. It was an order. He stood up, extended an arm to take hers, and together they went down to the palace's audience chamber.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith was proud of the Duc. Of course, there was his embarrassing little nocturnal problem, because his morphic field weakened when he slept, but that wasn't yet a major difficulty. And there was the trouble with mirrors, which showed him as he really was, but that was easily overcome by banning all mirrors save hers. And then there were his eyes. She couldn't do anything about the eyes. There was practically no magic that could do anything about someone's eyes. All she had been able to come up with there were the smoked glasses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even so, he was a triumph. And he was so grateful. She'd been good for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd made a man of him, for a start.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Some way downriver from the waterfall, which was the second highest anywhere on the Disc and had been discovered in the Year of the Revolving Crab by the noted explorer Guy de Yoyo, Granny Weatherwax sat in front of a small fire with a towel around her shoulders and steamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Still, look on the bright side," said Nanny Ogg. "At least I was holding my broom and you at the same time. And Magrat had hers. Otherwise we'd all be looking at the waterfall from underneath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, good. A silver lining," said Granny, her eyes glinting evilly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bit of an adventure, really," said Nanny, grinning encouragingly. "One day we'll look back on this and laugh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, good," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny dabbed at the claw marks on her arm. Greebo, with a cat's true instinct for self-preservation, had clawed his way up his mistress and taken a flying leap to safety from the top of her head. Now he was curled up by the fire, dreaming cat dreams.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow passed over them. It was Magrat, who had been combing the riverbanks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I've got nearly everything," she said as she landed. "Here's Granny's broomstick. And...oh, yes...the wand." She gave a brave little smile. "Little pumpkins were bobbing to the surface. That's how I found it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word, that was lucky," said Nanny Ogg encouragingly. "Hear that, Esme? We shan't be wanting for food, at any rate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I've found the basket with the dwarf bread in it," said Magrat, "although I'm afraid it might be spoilt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It won't be, take it from me," said Nanny Ogg. "You can't spoil dwarf bread. Well, well," she said, sitting down again. "We've got quite a little picnic, haven't we... and a nice bright fire and... and a nice place to sit and... I'm sure there's lots of poor people in places like Howondaland and suchlike who'd give anything to be here right now..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't stop being so cheerful, Gytha Ogg, I shall give you such a ding around the ear with the flat of my hand," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sure you're not catching a chill?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm dryin' out," said Granny Weatherwax, "from the inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I'm really sorry," said Magrat. "I said I was sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not that she was quite certain what for, she told herself. The boat wasn't her idea. She hadn't put the waterfall there. She hadn't even been in a position to see it coming. She'd turned the boat into a pumpkin, but she hadn't meant to. It could have happened to anyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I managed to save Desiderata's notebooks, too," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's a blessing," said Nanny Ogg. "Now we know where we're lost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around. They were through the worst of the mountains, but there were still peaks around and high meadows stretching to the snowline. From somewhere in the distance came the clonking of goat bells.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat unfolded a map. It was creased, damp, and the pencil had run. She pointed cautiously to a smudged area.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we're here," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word," said Nanny Ogg, whose grasp of the principles of cartography was even shakier than Granny's. "Amazing how we can all fit on that little bit of paper."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think perhaps it would be a good idea at the moment if we just followed the river," said Magrat. "Without in any way going on it," she added quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you didn't find my bag?" said Granny Weatherwax. "It had pers'nal items in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably sank like a stone," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stood up like a general who's just had news that his army has come second.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," she said. "Where to next, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What was next was forest - dark and ferociously coniferous. The witches flew over it in silence. There were occasional, isolated cottages half-hidden in the trees. Here and there a crag loomed over the sylvanian gloom, shrouded in mist even in mid-afternoon. Once or twice they flew past castles, if that's what you could call them; they didn't look built, more extruded from the landscape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the kind of landscape that had a particular type of story attached to it, featuring wolves and garlic and frightened women. A dark and thirsty story, a story that flapped wings against the moon...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Der flabberghast," muttered Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's foreign for bat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've always liked bats," said Magrat. "In general."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches found that, by unspoken agreement, they were flying closer together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm getting hungry," said Granny Weatherwax. "And don't no-one mention pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's dwarf bread," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always the dwarf bread," said Granny. "I fancy something cooked this year, thank you all the same."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They flew past another castle, occupying the entire summit of a crag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What we need is a nice little town or something," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But the one down there will have to do," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked down at it. It wasn't so much a town as a huddle of houses, clustering together against the trees. It looked as cheerless as an empty hearth, but the shadows of the mountains were already speeding across the forest and something about the landscape tacitly discouraged night-time flying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't see many people about," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they turn in early in these parts," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's hardly even sunset," said Magrat. "Perhaps we ought to go up to that castle?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked at the castle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-o-o," said Granny slowly, speaking for all of them. "We know our place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So they landed, instead, in what was presumably the town square. A dog barked, somewhere behind the buildings. A shutter banged closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very friendly," said Granny. She walked over to a larger building that had a sign, unreadable under the grime, over the door. She gave the woodwork a couple of thumps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Open up!" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, no, you don't say that," said Magrat. She shouldered her way past, and tapped on the door. "Excuse me! Bona fide travellers!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bona what?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what you need to say," said Magrat. "Any inn has got to open up for bona fide travellers and give them succour."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has it?" said Nanny, with interest. "That sounds like a thing worth knowing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door remained shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me ‘ave a go," said Nanny. "I know some foreign lingo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hammered on the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Openny vous, gunga din, chop-chop, pretty damn quick," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax listened carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's speaking foreign, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My grandson Shane is a sailor," said Nanny Ogg. "You'd be amazed, the words he learns about foreign parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expects I would," said Granny. "And I ‘opes they works better for him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She thumped on the door again. And this time it opened, very slowly. A pale face peered around it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me - " Magrat began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny pushed the door open. The face's owner had been leaning on it; they could hear the scrape of his boots over the floor as he was shoved gently backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blessings be on this house," Granny said, perfunctorily. It was always a good opening remark for a witch. It concentrated people's minds on what other things might be on this house, and reminded them about any fresh cakes, newly-baked bread or bundles of useful old clothing that might have temporarily escaped their minds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It looked like one of the other things had been on this house already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an inn, of sorts. The three witches had never seen such a cheerless place in their lives. But it was quite crowded. A score or more pale-faced people watched them solemnly from benches around the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sniffed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor," she said. "Talk about garlic!" And, indeed, bunches of it hung from every beam. "You can't have too much garlic, I always say. I can see I'm going to like it here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded to a white-faced man behind the bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gooden day, big-feller mine host! Trois beers pour favour avec us, silver plate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's a silver plate got to do with it?" demanded Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's foreign for please," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet it isn't really," said Granny. "You're just making it up as you goes along."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The innkeeper, who worked on the fairly simple principle that anyone walking through the door wanted something to drink, drew three beers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See?" said Nanny, triumphantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't like the way everyone's looking at us," said Magrat, as Nanny babbled on to the perplexed man in her very own esperanto. "A man over there grinned at me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax sat down on a bench, endeavouring to position herself so that as small an amount of her body as possible was in contact with the wood, in case being foreign was something you could catch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There," said Nanny, bustling up with a tray, "nothing to it. I just cussed at him until he understood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It looks horrible," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Garlic sausage and garlic bread," said Nanny. "My favourite."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ought to have got some fresh vegetables," said Magrat the dietitian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I did. There's some garlic," said Nanny happily, cutting a generous slice of eye-watering sausage. "And I think I definitely saw something like pickled onions on one of the shelves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes? Then we're going to need at least two rooms for tonight," said Granny sternly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three," said Magrat, very quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She risked another look around the room. The silent villagers were staring at them intently, with a look she could only describe to herself as a sort of hopeful sadness. Of course, anyone who spent much time in the company of Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg got used to being stared at; they were the kind of people that filled every space from edge to edge. And probably people in these parts didn't often see strangers, what with the thick forests and all. And the sight of Nanny Ogg eating a sausage with extreme gusto would even outrank her pickled onion number as major entertainment anywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even so... the way people were staring...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Outside, deep in the trees, a wolf howled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The assembled villagers shivered in unison, as though they had been practising. The landlord muttered something to them. They got up, reluctantly, and filed out of the door, trying to keep together. An old lady laid her hand on Magrat's shoulder for a moment, shook her head sadly, sighed, and then scuttled away. But Magrat was used to this, too. People often felt sorry for her when they saw her in Granny's company.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eventually the landlord lurched across to them with a lighted torch, and motioned them to follow him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you make him understand about the beds?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said, "Hey mister, jigajig toot sweet all same No. 3"," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax tried this under her breath, and nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your lad Shane certainly gets around a bit, doesn't he," she remarked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He says it works every time," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact there were only two rooms, up a long, winding and creaky stairway. And Magrat got one to herself. Even the landlord seemed to want it that way. He'd been very attentive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wished he hadn't been so keen to bar the shutters, though. Magrat liked to sleep with a window open. As it was, it was too dark and stuffy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, she thought, I am the fairy godmother. The others are just accompanying me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She peered hopelessly at herself in the room's tiny cracked mirror and then lay and listened to them on the far side of the paper-thin wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you turning the mirror to the wall for, Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just don't like ‘em, staring like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They only stares if you're staring at ‘em, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence, and then: "Eh, what's this round thing for, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon it's supposed to be a pillow, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! I don't call it a pillow. And there's no proper blankets, even. What'd you say this thing's called?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it's called a duvit, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We call them an eiderdown where I come from. Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a respite. Then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you brushed your tooth?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And another pause. Then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oo, you haven't half got cold feet, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, they ain't. They're lovely and snug."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And another silence. Then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Boots! Your boots! You've got your boots on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should just think I ‘ave got my boots on, Gytha Ogg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And your clothes! You haven't even undressed!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be too careful in foreign parts. There could be all sorts out there, a-creepin' around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat snuggled under the - what was it? - duvit, and turned over. Granny Weatherwax appeared to need one hour's sleep a night, whereas Nanny Ogg would snore on a fence rail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha? Gytha! GYTHA!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wha'?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you awake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘M now..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I keep ‘earing a noise!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... so do I..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat dozed for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha? GYTHA!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... wha' now?..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure someone rattled our shutters!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... not at our time of life... now g' back t' slee'..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air in the room was getting hotter and stuffier by the minute. Magrat got out of bed, unbolted the shutters and flung them back dramatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a grunt, and a distant thud of something hitting the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The full moon streamed in. She felt a lot better for that, and got back into bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed no time at all before the voice from next door woke her again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha Ogg, what are you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm ‘aving a snack."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you sleep?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just can't seem to be able to get off, Esme," said Nanny Ogg. "Can't imagine why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here, that's garlic sausage you're eating! I'm actually sharing a bed with someone eating garlic sausage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, that's mine! Give it back - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was aware of booted footsteps in the pit of the night, and the sound of a shutter being swung back in the next room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She thought she heard a faint ‘oof and another muted thud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you liked garlic, Esme," said Nanny Ogg's resentful voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sausage is all right in its place, and its place ain't in bed. And don't you say a word. Now move over. You keep taking all the duvit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while the velvet silence was broken by Granny's deep and resonant snore. Shortly afterwards it was joined by the genteel snoring of Nanny, who had spent far more time sleeping in company than Granny and had evolved a more accommodating nasal orchestra. Granny's snore would have cut logs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat folded the horrible round hard pillow over her ears and burrowed under the bedclothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere on the chilly ground, a very large bat was trying to get airborne again. It had already been stunned twice, once by a carelessly opened shutter and once by a ballistic garlic sausage, and wasn't feeling very well at all. One more setback, it was thinking, and it's back off to the castle. Besides, it'd be sunrise soon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its red eyes glinted as it looked up at Magrat's open window. It tensed -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A paw landed on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bat looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo had not had a very good night. He had investigated the whole place with regard to female cats, and found none. He had prowled among the middens, and drawn a blank. People in this town didn't throw the garbage away. They ate it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd trotted into the woods and found some wolves and had sat and grinned at them until they got uncomfortable and went away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes, it had been a very uneventful night. Until now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bat squirmed under his claw. It seemed to Greebo's small cat brain that it was trying to change its shape, and he wasn't having any of that from a mouse with wings on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Especially now, when he had someone to play with.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Genua was a fairytale city. People smiled and were joyful the livelong day. Especially if they wanted to see another livelong day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith made certain of that. Of course, people had probably thought they were happy in the days before she'd seen to it that the Duc replaced the old Baron, but it was a random, untidy happiness, which was why it was so easy for her to move in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it wasn't a way of life. There was no pattern to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One day they'd thank her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, there were always a few difficult ones. Sometimes, people just didn't know how to act. You did your best for them, you ruled their city properly, you ensured that their lives were worthwhile and full of happiness every hour of the day and then, for no reason at all, they turned on you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guards lined the audience chamber. And there was an audience. Technically, of course, it was the ruler who gave the audience, but Lilith liked to see people watching. One pennyworth of example was worth a pound of punishment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There wasn't a lot of crime in Genua these days. At least, not what would be considered crime elsewhere. Things like theft were easily dealt with and hardly required any kind of judicial process. Far more important, in Lilith's book, were crimes against narrative expectation. People didn't seem to know how they should behave.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith held a mirror up to Life, and chopped all the bits off Life that didn't fit...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Duc lounged bonelessly on his throne, one leg dangling over the armrest. He'd never got the hang of chairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what has this one done?" he said, and yawned. Opening his mouth wide was something he was good at, at least.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A little old man cowered between two guards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's always someone willing to be a guard, even in places like Genua. Besides, you got a really smart uniform, with blue trousers and a red coat and a high black hat with a cockade in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I... I can't whistle," quavered the old man. "I... I didn't know it was compulsory..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you are a toymaker," said the Duc. "Toymakers whistle and sing the whole day long." He glanced at Lilith. She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know any... s-songs," said the toymaker. "I never got taught s—songs. Just how to make toys. I was ‘prenticed at making toys. Seven years before the little hammer, man and boy..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It says here," said the Duc, making a creditable impersonation of someone reading the charge sheet in front of him, "that you don't tell the children stories."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one ever told me about telling... s-stories," said the toymaker. "Look, I just make toys. Toys. That's all I'm good at. Toys. I make good t-toys. I'm just a t-toymaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be a good toymaker if you don't tell stories to the children," said Lilith, leaning forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The toymaker looked up at the veiled face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't know any," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know any?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could t-tell ‘em how to make toys," the old man quavered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith sat back. It was impossible to see her expression under the veil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it would be a good idea if the People's Guards here took you away," she said, "to a place where you will certainly learn to sing. And possibly, after a while, you might even whistle. Won't that be nice?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old Baron's dungeons had been disgusting. Lilith had had them repainted and refurnished. With a lot of mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the audience was over one member of the crowd slipped out through the palace kitchens. The guards on the side gate didn't try to stop her. She was a very important person in the small compass of their lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hello, Mrs Pleasant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped, reached into her basket and produced a couple of roast chicken legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just tryin' a new peanut coating," she said. "Would value your opinions, boys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They took them gratefully. Everyone liked to see Mrs Pleasant. She could do things with a chicken that would almost make it glad it had been killed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now I'm just going out to get some herbs," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched her as she went like a fat, determined arrow in the direction of the market place, which was right on the edge of the river. Then they ate the chicken legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant bustled among the market stalls; and she took great care to bustle. Even in Genua there were always people ready to tell a tale. Especially in Genua. She was a cook, so she bustled. And made sure she stayed fat and was, fortunately, naturally jolly. She made sure she had floury arms at all times. If she felt under suspicion, she'd say things like ‘Lawks!" She seemed to be getting away with it so far.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked for the sign. And there it was. Perched up on die roof pole of a stall that was otherwise stacked with cages of hens, gazoots, Wheely cranes and other fowl, was a black cockerel. The voodoo doctor was In.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even as her eye found it the cockerel's head turned to look at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Set a little way back from the rest of the stalls was a small tent, similar to many around the market. A cauldron bubbled in front of it on a charcoal fire. There were bowls beside it, and a ladle, and beside them a plate with coins on it. There were quite a lot of coins; people paid for Mrs Gogol's cooking whatever they thought it was worth, and the plate was hardly big enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thick liquid in the cauldron was an unappetizing brown. Mrs Pleasant helped herself to a bowlful, and waited. Mrs Gogol had certain talents.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while a voice from the tent said, "What's new, Mrs Pleasant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's shut up the toymaker," said Mrs Pleasant, to the air in general. "And yesterday it was old Devereaux the innkeeper for not being fat and not having a big red face. That's four times this month."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You come in, Mrs Pleasant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was dark and hot inside the tent. There was another fire in there, and another pot. Mrs Gogol was hunched over it, stirring. She motioned the cook to a pair of bellows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blow up the coals a tad, and we'll see what's what," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant obeyed. She didn't use magic herself, other than that necessary to get a roux to turn or bread to rise, but she respected it in others. Especially in the likes of Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The charcoal blazed white. The thick liquid in the pot began to churn. Mrs Gogol peered into the steam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you doing, Mrs Gogol?" said the cook anxiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trying to see what's goin' to happen," said the voodoo woman. The voice dropped into the rolling growl of the psychically gifted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant squinted into the roiling mass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone's going to be eatin' shrimp?" she said helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ye see that bit of okra?" said Mrs Gogol. "Ye see the way the crab legs keep coming up just there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never were one to stint the crab meat," said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See the way the bubbles is so thick by the okuh leaves? See the way it all spirals around that purple onion?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see it! I see it!" said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you know what that means?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Means it's going to taste real tesme[?]!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure," said Mrs Gogol, kindly. "And it means some people's coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wow! How many?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol dipped a spoon into the seething mass and tasted it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three people," she said. She smacked her lips thoughtfully. "Women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She dipped the spoon again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have a taste," she said. "There's a cat, too. Ye can tell by the sassafras." She smacked her lips. "Grey. One eye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She explored the cavity of a tooth with her tongue. "The... left one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant's jaw dropped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll find you before they find me," said Mrs Gogol. "You lead ‘em here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant stared at Mrs Gogol's grim smile and then back down at the mixture in the pot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They coming all this way for a taste?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure." Mrs Gogol sat back. "You been to see the girl in the white house?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant nodded. "Young Embers," she said. "Yeah. When I can. When the Sisters are out at the palace. They got her real scared, Mrs Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down at the pot again, and back up to Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you really see - ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect you've got things to marinate?" said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Yeah." Mrs Pleasant backed out, but with reluctance. Then she halted. Mrs Pleasant, at rest, was not easily moved again until she wanted to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That Lilith woman says she can see the whole world in mirrors," she said, in slightly accusing tones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol shook her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All anyone gets in a mirror is themselves," she said. "But what you gets in a good gumbo is everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant nodded. This was a well-known fact. She couldn't dispute it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol shook her head sadly when the cook had gone. A voodoo woman was reduced to all sorts of stratagems in order to appear knowing, but she felt slightly ashamed of letting an honest woman believe that she could see the future in a pot of gumbo. Because all you could see in a pot of Mrs Gogol's gumbo was that the future certainly contained a very good meal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd really seen it in a bowl of jambalaya she'd prepared earlier.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat lay with the wand under her pillow. She wobbled gently between sleep and wakefulness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Certainly she was the best person for the wand. There was no doubt about that. Sometimes - and she hardly dared give the thought headroom, when she was under the same roof as Granny Weatherwax - she really wondered about the others' commitment to witchcraft. Half the time they didn't seem to bother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Take medicine, for example. Magrat knew she was much better than them at herbs. She'd inherited several large books on the subject from Goodie Whemper, her predecessor in the cottage, and had essayed a few tentative notes of her own as well. She could tell people things about the uses of Devil's Bit Scabious that would interest them so much they'd rush off, presumably to look for someone else to tell. She could fractionally distil, and double-distil, and do things that meant sitting up all night watching the colour of the flame under the retort. She worked at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whereas Nanny just tended to put a hot poultice on everything and recommend a large glass of whatever the patient liked best on the basis that since you were going to be ill anyway you might as well get some enjoyment out of it. (Magrat forbade her patients alcohol, because of what it did to the liver; if they didn't know what it did to the liver, she spent some time telling them.)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Granny... she just gave people a bottle of coloured water and told them they felt a lot better.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And what was so annoying was that they often did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where was the witchcraft in that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With a wand, though, things could be different. You could help people a lot with a wand. Magic was there to make life better. Magrat knew this in the pink fluttering boudoir of her heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She dipped under the surface of sleep again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was an odd dream. She never mentioned it to anyone afterwards because, well, you didn't. Not things like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she thought she'd got up in the night, awakened by the silence, to get some more air. And as she passed the mirror she saw a movement in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't her face. It looked a lot like Granny Weather-wax. It smiled at her - a much nicer and friendlier smile than she'd ever got from Granny, Magrat recalled - and then vanished, the cloudy silver surface closing over it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried back to bed and awoke to the sound of a brass band, engaged in unrelenting oompah. People were shouting and laughing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat got dressed quickly, went out into the corridor, and knocked on the door of the older witches. There was no reply. She tried the handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After she'd rattled it a couple of times there was a thump as the chair wedged under the handle on the other side, the better to deter ravishers, burglars and other nocturnal intruders, fell over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's boots protruded from under the covers at one end of the bed. Nanny Ogg's bare feet, Nanny being something of a night-time revolver, were beside them. Faint snores rattled the jug on the washbasin; these were no longer the full-nosed roars of a quick forty-winks catnapper, but the well-paced growls of someone who intends to make a night of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat knocked on the sole of Granny's boot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, wake up! Something's going on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weather-wax waking up was quite an impressive sight, and one not seen by many people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most people, on waking up, accelerate through a quick panicky pre-consciousness check-up: who am I, where am I, who is he/she, good god, why am I cuddling a policeman's helmet, what happened last night?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And this is because people are riddled by Doubt. It is the engine that drives them through their lives. It is the elastic band in the little model aeroplane of their soul, and they spend their time winding it up until it knots. Early morning is the worst time - there's that little moment of panic in case You have drifted away in the night and something else has moved in. This never happened to Granny Weatherwax. She went straight from fast asleep to instant operation on all six cylinders. She never needed to find herself because she always knew who was doing the looking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sniffed. "Something's burning," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got a bonfire, too," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sniffed again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're roasting garlic"?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. I can't imagine why. They're ripping all the shutters off the windows and burning them in the square and dancing around the fire."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax gave Nanny Ogg a vicious jab with her elbow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wake up, you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wstph?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't get a wink of sleep all night," said Granny reproachfully, "what with her snoring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg raised the covers cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's far too early in the morning for it to be early in the morning," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said Granny. "We needs your skill with languages."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The owner of the inn flapped his arms up and down and ran around in circles. Then he pointed at the castle that towered over the forest. Then he sucked vigorously at his wrist. Then he fell over on his back. And then he looked expectantly at Nanny Ogg, while behind him the bonfire of garlic and wooden stakes and heavy window shutters burned merrily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Nanny, after a while. "Still non conprendy, mine hair."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man got up, and brushed some dust off his leather breeches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think he's saying that someone's dead," said Magrat. "Someone in the castle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I must say, everyone seems very cheerful about it," said Granny Weatherwax severely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the sunlight of the new day the village looked far more cheerful. Everyone kept nodding happily at the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's because it was probably the landlord," said Nanny Ogg. "Bit of a bloodsucker, I think he's sayin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. That'd be it, then." Granny rubbed her hands together and looked approvingly at the breakfast table, which had been dragged out into the sunshine. "Anyway, the food has certainly improved. Pass the bread, Magrat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone keeps smiling and waving at us," said Magrat. "And look at all this food!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's only to be expected," said Granny, with her mouth full. "They've only had us here one night and already they're learnin' it's lucky to be kind to witches. Now help me get the lid off this honey."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under the table, Greebo sat and washed himself. Occasionally he burped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vampires have risen from the dead, the grave and the crypt, but have never managed it from the cat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason and all at No. 21, No. 34, No. 15, No. 87 and No. 61 but not at No. 18 until she gives back the bowl she definitly borrowed whatever she says,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Well here we are, cor what a lark so far, dont arsk ME about pumkins, still, no harm done. Im drawin a picture of where we stayed larst night I have put an X on our room where our room is. The weather –
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing, Gytha? We're ready to leave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked up, her face still creased with the effort of composition.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought it would be nice to send something to our Jason. You know, to stop him worryin'. So I done a drawing of this place on a piece of card and Mine Hair here will give it to someone going our way. You never know, it might get there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     - continues Fine.
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sucked the end of her pencil. Not for the first time in the history of the universe, someone for whom communication normally came as effortlessly as a dream was stuck for inspiration when faced with a few lines on the back of a card.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well that about wraps it up for now, will fight wright again soone MUM. P.S. the Cat is looking very Peeky I think he misses his Home.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will you come on, Gytha? Magrat's getting my broom started for me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">P.P.S. Granny sends her Love.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sat back, content in the knowledge of a job well done.*</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat reached the end of the town square and stopped to rest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Quite an audience had gathered to see a woman with legs. They were very polite about it. Somehow, that made it worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't fly unless you run really fast," she explained, aware even as she spoke how stupid this sounded, especially if you were listening in a foreign language. "I think it's called hump starting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took a deep breath, scowled in concentration, and ran forward again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This time it started. It jolted in her hands. The bristles rustled. She managed to slip it into neutral before it could drag her along the ground.  One thing about Granny Weatherwax's broomstick - it was one of the very old-fashioned ones, built in the days when broomsticks were built to last and not fall apart with woodworm after ten years - was that while it might take some starting, when it went it didn't hang about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat had once considered explaining the symbolism of the witches' broomstick to Granny Weatherwax, and decided not to. It would have been worse than the row about the significance of the maypole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Departure took some time. The villagers insisted on giving them little gifts of food. Nanny Ogg made a speech which no-one understood but which was generally cheered. Greebo, hiccuping occasionally, oozed into his accustomed place among the bristles of Nanny's broomstick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As they rose above the forest a thin plume of smoke also rose from the castle. And then there were flames.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see people dancing in front of it," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Always a dangerous business, rentin' property," said Granny Weatherwax. "I expect he was a bit lax when it came to redecoratin' and repairin' the roof and suchlike. People take against that kind of thing. My landlord hasn't done a hand's turn on my cottage the whole time I've been there," she added. "It's shameful. And me an old woman, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you owned your place," said Magrat, as the broomsticks set off over the forest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She just ain't paid no rent for sixty years," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that my fault?" said Granny Weatherwax. "It's not my fault. I'd be quite willin' to pay." She smiled a slow, self-confident smile. "All he has to do is ask," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is the Discworld, seen from above, its cloud formations circling in long curved patterns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three dots emerged from the cloud layer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see why travellin' doesn't catch on. I call this boring. Nothing but forest for hours and hours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but flying gets you to places quickly, Granny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long've we been flying, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About ten minutes since you last asked, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see? Boring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's sitting on the sticks I don't like. I reckon there ought to be a special broomstick for going long distances, right? One you could stretch out on and have a snooze."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all considered this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And have your meals on," added Nanny. "Proper meals, I mean. With gravy. Not just sandwiches and stuff." An experiment in aerial cookery on a small oil burner had been hastily curtailed after it threatened to set fire to Nanny's broomstick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you could do it if you had a really big broomstick," said Magrat. "About the size of a tree, perhaps. Then one of us could do the steering and another one could do the cooking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'd never happen," said Nanny Ogg. "The reason being, the dwarfs would make you pay a fortune for a stick that big."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but what you could do," said Magrat, warming to her subject, "is get people to pay you to give them rides. There must be lots of people fed up with highwaymen and... and being seasick and that sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about it, Esme?" said Nanny Ogg. "I'll do the steering and Magrat'll do the cooking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What shall I do, then?" said Granny Weatherwax suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh... well... there ought to be someone to, you know, welcome people onto the stick and give them their meals," said Magrat. "And tell them what to do if the magic fails, for example."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the magic fails everyone'll crash into the ground and die," Granny pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but someone will have to tell them how to do that," said Nanny Ogg, winking at Magrat. "They won't know how to, not being experienced in flying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And we could call ourselves..." she paused. As always on the Discworld, which was right on the very edge of unreality, little bits of realness crept in whenever someone's mind was resonating properly. This happened now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... Three Witches Airborne," she said. "How about that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Broomsticks Airborne," said Magrat. "Or Pan... air..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no need to bring religion into it," sniffed Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked slyly from Granny to Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We could call it Vir - " she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A gust of wind caught all three sticks and whirled them up. There was a brief panic as the witches brought them under control.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Load of nonsense," muttered Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it passes the time," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked morosely at the greenery below.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd never get people to do it," she said. "Load of nonsense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason enfamile,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Overleaf on the other side please find enclosed a sketch of somewhere some king died and was buried, search me why. It's in some village wear we stopped last night. We had some stuff it was chewy you'll never guess it was snails, and not bad and Esme had three helpins before she found out and then had a Row with the cook and Magrat was sick all night just at the thought of it and had the dire rear. Thinking of you your loving MUM. 
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">PS the privies here are DESGUSTING, they have them INDORES, so much for HIGEINE.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Several days passed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a quiet little inn in a tiny country Granny Weather-wax sat and regarded the food with deep suspicion. The owner hovered with the frantic expression of one who knows, even before he starts, that he's not going to come out of this ahead of the game.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good simple home cooking," said Granny. "That's all I require. You know me. I'm not the demanding sort. No-one could say I'm the demanding sort. I just want simple food. Not all grease and stuff. It comes to something when you complain about something in your lettuce and it turns out to be what you ordered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg tucked her napkin into the top of her dress and said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like that place last night," said Granny. "You'd think you'd be all right with sandwiches, wouldn't you? I mean... sandwiches? Simplest food there is in the whole world. You'd think even foreigners couldn't get sandwiches wrong. Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They didn't call them sandwiches, Granny," said Magrat, her eyes dwelling on the owner's frying pan. "They called them... I think they called them smorgy's board."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They was nice," said Nanny Ogg. "I'm very partial to a pickled herring."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But they must think we're daft, not noticing they'd left off the top slice," said Granny triumphantly. "Well, I told them a thing or two! Another time they'll think twice before trying to swindle people out of a slice of bread that's theirs by rights!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect they will," said Magrat darkly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I don't hold with all this giving things funny names so people don't know what they're eating," said Granny, determined to explore the drawbacks of international cookery to the full. "I like stuff that tells you plain what it is, like... well... Bubble and Squeak, or... or..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Spotted Dick," said Nanny absently. She was watching the progress of the pancakes with some anticipation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. Decent honest food. I mean, take that stuff we had for lunch. I'm not saying it wasn't nice," said Granny graciously. "In a foreign sort of way, of course. But they called it Cwuissses dee Grenolly, and who knows what that means?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Frogs' legs," translated Nanny, without thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence was filled with Granny Weatherwax taking a deep breath and a pale green colour creeping across Magrat's face. Nanny Ogg now thought quicker than she had done for a very long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not actual frogs' legs," she said hurriedly. "It's like Toad-in-the-Hole is really only sausage and batter puddin'. It's just a joke name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't sound very funny to me," said Granny. She turned to glare at the pancakes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At least they can't muck up a decent pancake," she said. "What'd they call them here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Crap suzette, I think," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny forbore to comment. But she watched with grim satisfaction as the owner finished the dish and gave her a hopeful smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, now he expects us to eat them," she said. "He only goes and sets fire to them, and then he still expects us to eat them!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It might later have been possible to chart the progress of the witches across the continent by some sort of demographic survey. Long afterwards, in some quiet, onion-hung kitchens, in sleepy villages nestling among hot hills, you might have found cooks who wouldn't twitch and try to hide behind the door when a stranger came into the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is defnity more warmer here, Magrat says it is because we are getting further from the Hub and, a funny thing, all the money is different. You have to change it for other money which is all different shapes and is not proper money at all in my opnion. We generally let Esme sort that out, she gets a very good rate of exchange, it is amazing, Magrat says she will write a book called Travelling on One Dollar a Day, and it's always the same dollar. Esme is getting to act just like a foreigner, yesterday she took her shawl off, next thing it will be dancing on tables. This is a picture of some famous bridge or other. Lots of love, MUM.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun beat down on the cobbled street, and particularly on the courtyard of a little inn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's hard to imagine," said Magrat, "that it's autumn back home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Garkon? Mucho vino aveck zei, grassy ass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The innkeeper, who did not understand one word and was a good-natured man who certainly did not deserve to be called a garkon, smiled at Nanny. He'd smile at anyone with such an unlimited capacity for drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't hold with putting all these tables out in the street, though," said Granny Weatherwax, although without much severity. It was pleasantly warm. It wasn't that she didn't like autumn, it was a season she always looked forward to, but at her time of life it was nice to know that it was happening hundreds of miles away while she wasn't there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Underneath the table Greebo dozed on his back with his legs in the air. Occasionally he twitched as he fought wolves in his sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It says in Desiderata's notes," said Magrat, turning the stiff pages carefully, "that in the late summer here they have this special traditional ceremony where they let a lot of bulls run through the street."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That'd be something worth seeing," said Granny Weatherwax. "Why do they do it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So all the young men can chase them to show how brave they are," said Magrat. "Apparently they pull their rosettes off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A variety of expressions passed across Nanny Ogg's wrinkled face, like weather over a stretch of volcanic badlands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounds a bit strange," she said at last. "What do they do that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She doesn't explain it very clearly," said Magrat. She turned another page. Her lips moved as she read on. "What does cojones mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here, you want to slow down on that drink," said Granny, as a waiter put down another bottle in front of Nanny Ogg. "I wouldn't trust any drink that's green."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not like proper drink," said Nanny. "It says on the label it's made from herbs. You can't make a serious drink out of just herbs. Try a drop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sniffed the opened bottle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smells like aniseed," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It says "Absinthe" on the bottle," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, that's just a name for wormwood," said Magrat, who was good at herbs. "My herbal says it's good for stomach disorders and prevents sickness after meals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There you are, then," said Nanny. "Herbs. It's practic'ly medicine." She poured a generous measure for the other two. "Give it a go, Magrat. It'll put a chest on your chest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax surreptitiously loosened her boots. She was also debating whether to remove her vest. She probably didn't need all three.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ought to be getting on," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I'm fed up with the broomsticks," said Nanny. "More than a couple of hours on a stick and I've gone rigid in the dairy air."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked expectantly at the other two. "That foreign for bum," she added. "Although, it's a funny thing, in some foreign parts "bum" means "tramp" and "tramp" means "hobo". Funny things, words."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A laugh a minute," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The river's quite wide here," said Magrat. "There's big boats. I've never been on a proper boat. You know? The kind that doesn't sink easily?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Broomsticks is more witchy," said Granny, but not with much conviction. She did not have Nanny Ogg's international anatomical vocabulary, but bits of her she wouldn't even admit to knowing the names of were definitely complaining.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I saw them boats," said Nanny. "They looked like great big rafts with houses on. You wouldn't hardly know you're on a boat, Esme. "Ere, what's he doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The innkeeper had hurried out and was taking the jolly little tables back inside. He nodded at Nanny and spoke with a certain amount of urgency.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think he wants us to go inside," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I likes it out here," said Granny. "I LIKES IT OUT HERE, THANK YOU," she repeated. Granny Weather-wax's approach to foreign tongues was to repeat herself loudly and slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Ere, you stop trying to take our table away!" snapped Nanny, thumping his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The innkeeper spoke hurriedly and pointed up the street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny and Magrat glanced inquiringly at Nanny Ogg. She shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't understand any of that," she admitted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"WE'RE STOPPIN' WHERE WE ARE, THANK YOU," said Granny. The innkeeper's eyes met hers. He gave in, waved his hands in the air in exasperation, and went inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They think they can take advantage of you when you're a woman," said Magrat. She stifled a burp, discreetly, and picked up the green bottle again. Her stomach was feeling a lot better already.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's very true. D'you know what?" said Nanny Ogg, "I barricaded meself in my room last night and a man didn't even try to break in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha Ogg, sometimes you - " Granny stopped as she caught sight of something over Nanny's shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a load of cows coming down the street," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny turned her chair around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It must be that bull thing Magrat mentioned," she said. "Should be worth seein'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat glanced up. All along the street people were craning out of every second-storey window. A jostle of horns and hooves and steaming bodies was approaching rapidly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's people up there laughing at us," she said accusingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under the table Greebo stirred and rolled over. He opened his good eye, focused on the approaching bulls, and sat up. This looked like being fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Laughin'?" said Granny. She looked up. The people aloft did indeed appear to be enjoying a joke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes narrowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're just goin' to carry on as if nothin' is happening," she declared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But they're quite big bulls," said Magrat nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're nothing to do with us," said Granny. "It's nothin' to do with us if a lot of foreigners want to get excited about things. Now pass me the herbal wine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As far as Lagro te Kabona, innkeeper, could remember the events of that day, they seemed to happen like this:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the time of the Thing with the Bulls. And the mad women just sat there, drinking absinthe as if it was water! He tried to get them to come indoors, but the old one, the skinny one, just shouted at him. So he let them bide, but left the door open - people soon got the message when the bulls came down the street with the young men of the village after them. Whoever snatched the big red rosette from between the horns of the biggest bull got the seat of honour at that night's feast plus - Lagro smiled a smile of forty years' remembrance - a certain informal but highly enjoyable relationship with the young women of the town for quite some time after...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the mad women just sat there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The leading bull had been a bit uncertain about this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Its normal course of action would be to roar and paw the ground a bit to get the targets running in an interesting way and its mind wasn't able to cope with this lack of attention, but that hadn't been its major problem, because its major problem had been twenty other bulls right behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And even that ceased to be its major problem, because the terrible old woman, the one all in black, had stood up, muttered something at it and smacked it between the eyes. Then the horrible dumpy one whose stomach had the resilience and capacity of a galvanized water tank fell backwards off her chair, laughing, and the young one - that is, the one who was younger than the other two - started flapping at the bulls as if they were ducks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the street was full of angry, bewildered bulls, and a lot of shouting, terrified young men. It's one thing to chase a lot of panicking bulls, and quite another to find that they're suddenly trying to run the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The innkeeper, from the safety of his bedroom window, could hear the horrible women shouting things to one another. The dumpy one kept laughing and shouting some sort of battle cry- "TrytheHorsemanswordEsme!" and then the younger one, who was pushing her way through the animals as if being gored to death was something that only happened to other people, found the lead bull and took the rosette off it, with the same air of concern as an old woman may take a thorn out of her cat's paw. She held it as if she didn't know what it was or what she should do with it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sudden silence affected even the bulls. Their tiny little bloodshot brains sensed something wrong. The bulls were embarrassed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, the horrible women left on a riverboat that afternoon, after one of them rescued her cat which had cornered twenty-five stone of confused bull and was trying to toss it in the air and play with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That evening Lagro te Kabona made a point of being very, very kind to his old mother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the village held a flower festival next year, and no-one ever talked about the Thing with the Bulls ever, ever again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least, not in front of the men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big paddlewheel sloshed through the thick brown soup of the river. The motive power was several dozen trolls under a sun-shade, trudging along an endless belt. Birds sang in the trees on the distant banks. The scent of hibiscus wafted across the water, almost but unfortunately not quite overpowering the scent of the river itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now this," said Nanny Ogg, "is more like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stretched out on the deckchair and turned to look at Granny Weatherwax, whose brows were knitted in the intense concentration of reading.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's mouth spread in an evil grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know what this river's called?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘S called the Vieux River."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Know what that means?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Old (Masculine) River," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Words have sex in foreign parts," said Nanny, hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny didn't budge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't be at all surprised," she murmured. Nanny sagged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's one of Desiderata's books, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Granny. She licked her thumb decorously and turned the page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's Magrat gone?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's having a lie-down in the cabin," said Granny, without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tummy upset?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's her head this time. Now be quiet, Gytha. I'm having a read."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about?" said Nanny cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax sighed, and put her finger on the page to mark her place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This place we're going to," she said. "Genua. Desiderata says it's decadent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's smile remained fixed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she said. "That's good, is it? I've never been to a city before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax paused. She'd been pondering for some while. She wasn't at all certain about the meaning of the word ‘decadent'. She'd dismissed the possibility that it meant ‘having ten teeth' in the same sense that Nanny Ogg, for example, was unident. Whatever it meant, it was something Desiderata had felt necessary to write down. Granny Weatherwax did not generally trust books as a means of information, but now she had no choice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had a vague idea that ‘decadent' had something to do with not opening the curtains all day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She says it's also a city of art, wit and culture," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We shall be all right there, then," said Nanny confidently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Particularly noted for the beauty of its women, she says here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We shall fade right in, no trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned the pages carefully. Desiderata had paid close attention to affairs all over the Disc. On the other hand, she hadn't been writing for readers other than herself, so her notes tended to the cryptic and were aides memoire rather than coherent accounts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny read: "Now L. rules the citie as the power behint the throne, and Baron S. they say has been killd, drowned in the river. He was a wicked man tho not I think as wicked as L, for she says she wants to make it a Magic Kingdom, a Happy and Peaseful place, and wen people do that look out for Spies on every corner and no manne dare speak out, for who dare speke out against Evile done in the name of Happyness and Pease? All the Streetes are clean and Axes are sharp. But E. is safe at least, for now. L. has plans for her. And Mrs G who was the Baron's amour hides in the swamp and fites back with swamp magic, but you cannot fite mirror magic which is all Reflection."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fairy godmothers came in twos, Granny knew. So that was Desiderata and... and L... but who was this person in the swamp?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wazzat?" said Nanny Ogg, who was dozing off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Desiderata says some woman here is someone's armour."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Prob'ly a mettyfor," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," said Granny darkly, "one of them things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" But no-one can stop Mardi Gras," she read." If anything canne be done it be on Samedi Nuit Morte, the last night of carnivale, the night halfway between the Living and the Dead, when magic flows in the streets. If L. is vooneruble it is then, for carnivale is everythinge she hates..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax pulled her hat down over her eyes to shield them from the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It says here they have a great big carnival every year," she said. "Mardi Gras, it's called."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That means Fat Lunchtime," said Nanny Ogg, international linguist. "Garkon! Etcetra gross Mint Tulip avec petit bowl de peanuts, pour favour!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax shut the book.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She would not of course admit it to a third party, least of all another witch, but as Genua drew nearer Granny was becoming less and less confident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was waiting in Genua. After all this time! Staring at her out of the mirror! Smiling!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun beat down. She tried defying it. Sooner or later she was going to have to give in, though. It was going to be time to remove another vest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sat and drew cards for her relatives for a while, and then yawned. She was a witch who liked noise and people around her. Nanny Ogg was getting bored. It was a big boat, more like a floating inn, and she felt certain there was some excitement somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laid her bag on her seat and wandered away to look for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trolls plodded on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sun was red, fat and low when Granny Weatherwax awoke. She looked around guiltily from the shelter of her hatbrim in case anyone had noticed her asleep. Falling asleep during the day was something only old women did, and Granny Weatherwax was an old woman only when it suited her purposes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only spectator was Greebo, curled up on Nanny's chair. His one good eye was fixed on her, but it wasn't so terrifying as the milky white stare of his blind one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just considerin' our strategy," she muttered, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She closed the book and strode off to their cabin. It wasn't a big one. Some of the staterooms looked huge, but what with the herbal wine and everything Granny hadn't felt up to using any Influence to get one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Nanny Ogg were sitting on a bunk, in gloomy silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I feels a bit peckish," said Granny. "I smelled stew on the way here, so let's go and have a look, eh? What about that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other two continued to stare at the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose there's always pumpkin," said Magrat. "And there's always the dwarf bread."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's always dwarf bread," said Nanny automatically. She looked up, her face a mask of shame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er, Esme... er... you know the money..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The money what we all gave you to keep in your knickers for safety?" said Granny. Something about the way the conversation was going suggested the first few pebbles slipping before a major landslide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the money I'm referrin' to... er..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The money in the big leather bag that we were goin' to be very careful about spendin'?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see... the money..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, that money," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"... is gone..." said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stolen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's been gambling," said Magrat, in tones of smug horror. "With men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It wasn't gambling!" snapped Nanny. "I never gamble! They were no good at cards! I won no end of games!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you lost money," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked down again, and muttered something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said I won nearly all of them," said Nanny. "And then I thought, here, we could really have a bit of money to, you know, spend in the city, and I've always been very good at Cripple Mr Onion..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you decided to bet heavily," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you know that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got a feelin' about it," said Granny wearily. "And suddenly everyone else was lucky, am I right ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was weird," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's not gambling," said Nanny. "I didn't see it was gambling. They were no good when I started playing. It's not gambling to play against someone who's no good. It's common sense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There was nearly fourteen dollars in that bag," said Magrat, "not counting the foreign money."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax sat down on the bunk and drummed her fingers on the woodwork. There was a faraway look in her eyes. The phrase ‘card sharp' had never reached her side of the Ramtops, where people were friendly and direct and, should they encounter a professional cheat, tended to nail his hand to the table in an easy and outgoing manner without asking him what he called himself. But human nature was the same everywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not upset, are you, Esme?" said Nanny anxiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect I can soon pick up a new broom when we get home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hm... what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After she lost all her money she bet her broom," said Magrat triumphantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have we got any money at all?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A trawl of various pockets and knicker legs produced forty-seven pence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," said Granny. She scooped it up. "That ought to be enough. To start with, anyway. Where are these men?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you going to do?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to play cards," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't do that!" said Magrat, who had recognized the gleam in Granny's eye. "You're going to use magic to win! You mustn't use magic to win! Not to affect the laws of chance! That's wicked^</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The boat was practically a floating town, and in the balmy night air no-one bothered much about going indoors. The riverboat's flat deck was dotted with groups of dwarfs, trolls and humans, lounging among the cargo. Granny threaded her way between them and headed for the long saloon that ran almost the entire length of the boat. There was the sound of revelry within.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The riverboats were the quickest and easiest transport for hundreds of miles. On them you got, as Granny would put it, all sorts, and the riverboats going downstream were always crowded with a certain type of opportunist as Fat Lunchtime approached.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked into the saloon. An onlooker might have thought it had a magic doorway. Granny Weatherwax, as she walked towards it, strode as she usually strode. As soon as she passed through, though, she was suddenly a bent old woman, hobbling along, and a sight to touch all but the wickedest heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She approached the bar, and then stopped. Behind it was the biggest mirror Granny had ever seen. She stared fixedly at it, but it seemed safe enough. Well, she'd have to risk it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hunched her back a little more and addressed the barman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuzee moir, young homme," she began.*</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The barman gave her a disinterested look and went on polishing a glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What can I do for you, old crone?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only the faintest suggestion of a flicker in Granny's expression of elderly imbecility.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh... you can understand me?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We get all sorts on the river," said the barman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I was wondering if you could be so kind as to loan me a deck, I thinks it's called, of cards," quavered Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Going to play a game of Old Maid, are you?" said the barman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a chilly flicker across Granny's eyes again as she said, "No. Just Patience. I'd like to try and get the hang of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached under the counter and tossed a greasy pack towards her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She thanked him effusively and tottered off to a small table in the shadows, where she dealt a few cards randomly on the drink-ringed surface and stared at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was only a few minutes later that a gentle hand was laid on her shoulder. She looked up into a friendly, open face that anyone would lend money to. A gold tooth glittered as the man spoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, good mother," he said, "but my friends and I" - he gestured to some more welcoming faces at a nearby table - "would feel much more comfortable in ourselves if you were to join us. It can be very dangerous for a woman travelling by herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax smiled nicely at him, and then waved vaguely at her cards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can never remember whether the ones are worth more or less than the pictures," she said. "Forget my own head next, I expect!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all laughed. Granny hobbled to the other table. She took the vacant seat, which put the mirror right behind her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled to herself and then leaned forward, all eagerness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So tell me," she said, "how do you play this game, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All witches are very conscious of stories. They can feel stories, in the same way that a bather in a little pool can feel the unexpected trout.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Knowing how stories work is almost all the battle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For example, when an obvious innocent sits down with three experienced card sharpers and says ‘How do you play this game, then?", someone is about to be shaken down until their teeth fall out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Nanny Ogg sat side by side on the narrow bunk. Nanny was distractedly tickling Greebo's stomach, while he purred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'll get into terrible trouble if she uses magic to win," said Magrat. "And you know how she hates losing," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was not a good loser. From her point of view, losing was something that happened to other people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's her eggo," said Nanny Ogg. "Everyone's got one o' them. A eggo. And she's got a great big one. Of course, that's all part of bein' a witch, having a big eggo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's bound to use magic," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's tempting Fate, using magic in a game of chance," said Nanny Ogg. "Cheatin's all right. That's practic'ly fair. I mean, anyone can cheat. But using magic - well, it's tempting Fate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Not Fate," said Magrat darkly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg shivered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said Magrat. "We can't let her do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's her eggo," said Nanny Ogg weakly. "Terrible thing, a big eggo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got," said Granny, "three little pictures of kings and suchlike and three of them funny number one cards."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three men beamed and winked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's Triple Onion!" said the one who had introduced Granny to the table, and who had turned out to be called Mister Frank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that's good, is it?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It means you win yet again, dear lady!" He pushed a pile of pennies towards her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gosh," said Granny. "That means I've got... what would it be... almost five dollars now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't understand it," said Mister Frank. "It must be the famous beginner's luck, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soon be poor men if it goes on like this," said one of his companions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'll have the coats off our backs, right enough," said the third man. "Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Think we should give up right now," said Mister Frank. "Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I want to go on," said Granny, grinning anxiously. "I'm just getting the hang of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you'd better give us a sporting chance to win a little bit back, haha," said Mister Frank. "Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha. What about half a dollar a stake? Haha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I reckon she'll want a dollar a stake, a sporting lady like her," said the third man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down at her pile of pennies. For a moment she looked uncertain and then, they could see, she realized: how much could she lose, the way the cards were going?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes!" she said. "A dollar a stake!" She blushed. "This is exciting, isn't it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Mister Frank. He drew the pack towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a horrible noise. All three men stared at the bar, where shards of mirror were cascading to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny gave him a sweet old smile. She hadn't appeared to look around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon the glass he was polishing must of slipped out of his hand and smashed right into the mirror," she said. "I do hope he don't have to pay for it out of his wages, the poor boy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men exchanged glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," said Granny, "I've got my dollar all ready."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mister Frank looked nervously at the ravaged frame. Then he shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The movement dislodged something somewhere. There was a muffled snapping noise, like a mousetrap carrying out the last rites. Mister Frank went white and gripped his sleeve. A small metal contraption, all springs and twisted metal, fell out. A crumpled-up Ace of Cups was tangled up in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whoops," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat peered through the window into the saloon. "What's she doin' now?" hissed Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's grinning again," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg shook her head. "Eggo," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had that method of play that has reduced professional gamblers to incoherent rage throughout the multiverse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held her cards tightly cupped in her hands a few inches from her face, allowing the merest fraction of each one to protrude. She glared at them as if daring them to offend her. And she never seemed to take her eyes off them, except to watch the dealing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she took far too long. And she never, ever, took risks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After twenty-five minutes she was down one dollar and Mister Frank was sweating. Granny had already helpfully pointed out three times that he'd accidentally dealt cards off the bottom of the deck, and she'd asked for another pack "because, look, this one's got all little marks on the back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was her eyes, that was what it was. Twice he'd folded on a perfectly good three-card Onion only to find that she'd been holding a lousy double Bagel. Then the third time, thinking he'd worked out her play, he'd called her out and run a decent flush right into the maw of a five-card Onion that the old bag must have been patiently constructing for ages. And then - his knuckles went white - and then the dreadful, terrible hag had said, "Have I won? With all these little cards? Gorsh - aren't I the lucky one!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then she started humming when she looked at her cards. Normally, the three of them would have welcomed this sort of thing. The teeth tappers, the eyebrow raisers, the ear rubbers - they were as good as money in the sock under the mattress, to a man who knew how to read such things. But the appalling old crone was as transparent as a lump of coal. And the humming was... insistent. You found yourself trying to follow the tune. It made your teeth tingle. Next thing you were glumly watching while she laid down a measly Broken Flush in front of your even more measly two-card Onion and said, "What, is it me again?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mister Frank was desperately trying to remember how to play cards without his sleeve device, a handy mirror and a marked deck. In the teeth of a hum like a fingernail down a blackboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't as if the ghastly old creature even knew how to play properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After an hour she was four dollars ahead and when she said, "I am a lucky girl!" Mister Frank bit through his tongue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he got a natural Great Onion. There was no realistic way to beat a Great Onion. It was something that happened to you once or twice in a lifetime.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She folded! The old bitch folded! She abandoned one blasted dollar and she folded!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat peered through the window again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They all look very angry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny took off her hat and removed her pipe. She lit it and tossed the match overboard. "Ah. She'll be humming, you mark my words. She's got a very annoying hum, has Esme." Nanny looked satisfied. "Has she started cleaning out her ear yet?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No-one cleans out her ear like Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was cleaning out her ear!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was done in a very ladylike way, and the daft old baggage probably wasn't even aware she was doing it. She just kept inserting her little finger in her ear and swivelling it around. It made a noise like a small pool cue being chalked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was displacement activity, that's what it was. They all cracked in the end...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She folded again! And it had taken him bloody five bloody minutes to put together a bloody double Onion!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember," said Nanny Ogg, "when she come over our house for the party when King Verence got crowned and we played Chase My Neighbour Up the Passage with the kiddies for ha'pennies. She accused Jason's youngest of cheating and sulked for a week afterwards."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was he cheating?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect so," said Nanny proudly. "The trouble with Esme is that she don't know how to lose. She's never had much practice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lobsang Dibbler says sometimes you have to lose in order to win," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounds daft to me," said Nanny. "That's Yen Buddhism, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. They're the ones who say you have to have lots of money to win," said Magrat. "In the Path of the Scorpion, the way to win is to lose every fight except the last one. You use the enemy's strength against himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, you get him to hit himself, sort of thing?" said Nanny. "Sounds daft."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat glowered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you know about it?" she said, with uncharacteristic sharpness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I'm fed up!" said Magrat. "At least I'm making an effort to learn things! I don't go around just bullying people and acting bad-tempered all the time!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny took her pipe out of her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not bad-tempered," she said mildly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't talking about you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Esme's always been bad-tempered," said Nanny. "It comes natural to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she hardly ever does real magic. What good is being a witch if you don't do magic? Why doesn't she use it to help people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny peered at her through the pipe smoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos she knows how good she'd be at it, I suppose," she said. "Anyway, I've known her a long time. Known the whole family. All the Weatherwaxes is good at magic, even the men. They've got this magical streak in ‘em. Kind of a curse. Anyway... she thinks you can't help people with magic. Not properly. It's true, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what good - ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny prodded at the pipe with a match.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I seem to recall she come over and helped you out when you had that spot of plague in your village," she said. "Worked the clock around, I recall. Never known her not treat someone ill who needed it, even when they, you know, were pretty oozy. And when the big ole troll that lives under Broken Mountain came down for help because his wife was sick and everyone threw rocks at him, I remember it was Esme that went back with him and delivered the baby. Hah... then when old Chickenwire Hopkins threw a rock at Esme a little while afterwards all his barns was mysteriously trampled flat in the night. She always said you can't help people with magic, but you can help them with skin. By doin' real things, she meant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not saying she's not basically a nice person –" Magrat began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! I am. You'd have to go a long day's journey to find someone basically nastier than Esme," said Nanny Ogg, "and this is me sayin' it. She knows exactly what she is. She was born to be good and she don't like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tapped her pipe out on the rail and turned back to the saloon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What you got to understand about Esme, my girl," she said, "is that she's got a psycholology as well as a big eggo. I'm damn glad I ain't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was twelve dollars ahead. Everything else in the saloon had stopped. You could hear the distant splash of the paddles and the cry of the leadman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny won another five dollars with a three-card Onion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, a psycholology?" said Magrat. "Have you been reading books?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny ignored her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The thing to watch out for now," she said, "is when she goes "tch, tch, tch" under her breath. That comes after the ear-cleanin'. It gen'rally means she's plannin' somethin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mister Frank drummed his fingers on the table, realized to his horror that he was doing it, and bought three new cards to cover his confusion. The old baggage didn't appear to notice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at the new hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ventured two dollars and bought one more card.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What were the odds, he thought, against getting a Great Onion twice in one day?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The important thing was not to panic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," he heard himself say, "that I may hazard another two dollars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced at his companions. They obediently folded, one after another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I don't know," said Granny, apparently talking to her cards. She cleaned her ear again. "Tch, tch, tch. What d'you call it when, you know, you want to put more money in, sort of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's called raising," said Mister Frank, his knuckles going white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll do one of them raisins, then. Five dollars, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mister Frank's knees ground together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll see you and raise you ten dollars," he snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll do that too," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can go another twenty dollars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I - " Granny looked down, suddenly crestfallen. "I've... got a broomstick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A tiny alarm bell rang somewhere at the back of Mister Frank's mind, but now he was galloping headlong to victory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spread the cards on the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He began to pull the pot towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's hand closed over his wrist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't put my cards down yet," she said archly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't need to," snapped Mister Frank. "There's no chance you could beat that, madam."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can if I can Cripple it," said Granny. "That's why it's called Cripple Mister Onion, ain't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But - but - you could only do that if you had a perfect nine-card run," he burbled, staring into the depths of her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," she said calmly, "I thought I had rather a lot of these black pointy ones. That's good, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She spread the hand. The collective audience made a sort of little gasping noise, in unison.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mister Frank looked around wildly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, very well done, madam," said an elderly gentleman. There was a round of polite applause from the crowd. The big, inconvenient crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... yes," said Mister Frank. "Yes. Well done. You're a very quick learner, aren't you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quicker'n you. You owe me fifty-five dollars and a broomstick," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Nanny Ogg were waiting for her as she swept out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here's your broom," she snapped. "And I hopes you've got all your stuff together, "cos we're leaving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because as soon as it gets quiet, some men are going to come looking for us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They scurried after her towards their tiny cabin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You weren't using magic?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And not cheating?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Just headology," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where did you learn to play like that?" Nanny demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stopped. They cannoned into her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember last winter, when Old Mother Dismass was taken really bad and I went and sat up with her every night for almost a month?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sit up every night dealing Cripple Mister Onion with someone who's got a detached retina in her second sight and you soon learn how to play," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason and everyone,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">What you get more of in foreign parts is smells, I am getting good at them. Esme is shouting at everyone, I think she thinks they're beinforeinjust to Spite her, don't know when I last saw her enjoi herselfe so much. Mind you they need a good Shakin up if you ask me, for lunch we stopped somehwere and they did Steak Tartere and they acted VERY snooty just becos I wanted myne well done. All the best, MUM</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The moon was closer here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The orbit of the Discworld's moon meant that it was quite high when it passed over the high Ramtops. Here, nearer to the Rim, it was bigger And more orange.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like a pumpkin," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought we said we weren't going to mention pumpkins," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we didn't have any supper," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was another thing. Except during the height of summer the witches weren't used to warm nights. It didn't seem right, gliding along under a big orange moon over dark foliage that clicked and buzzed and whirred with insects.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We must be far enough from the river now," said Magrat. "Can't we land, Granny? No-one could have followed us!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked down. The river in this countryside meandered in huge glistening curves, taking twenty miles to cover five. The land between the snaking water was a patchwork of hillsides and woodlands. A distant glow might have been Genua itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Riding a broomstick all night is a right pain in the itinerant," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a town over there," said Magrat. "And a castle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, not another one..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a nice little castle," said Magrat. "Can't we just call in? I'm fed up with inns."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down. She had very good night vision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure that's a castle?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see the turrets and everything," said Magrat. "Of course it's a castle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. I can see more than turrets," said Granny. "I think we'd better have a look at this, Gytha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was never any noise in the sleeping castle, except in the late summer when ripe berries fell off the bramble vines and burst softly on the floor. And sometimes birds would try to nest in the thorn thickets that now filled the throne room from floor to ceiling, but they never got very far before they, too, fell asleep. Apart from that, you'd need very keen hearing indeed to hear the growth of shoots and the opening of buds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been like this for ten years. There was no sound in the -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Open up there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bony fidy travellers seeking sucker!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- no sound in the -</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here, give us a leg up, Magrat. Right. Now..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tinkle of broken glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've broken their window!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- not a sound in the -</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll have to offer to pay for it, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The castle gate swung open slowly. Nanny Ogg peered around it at the other two witches, while pulling thorns and burrs from her hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's bloody disgusting in here," she said. "There's people asleep all over the place with spiders' webs all over ‘em. You were right, Esme. There's been magic going on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches pushed their way through the overgrown castle. Dust and leaves had covered the carpets. Young sycamores were making a spirited attempt to take over the courtyard. Vines festooned every wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax pulled a slumbering soldier to his feet. Dust billowed off his clothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wake up," she demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fzhtft," said the soldier, and slumped back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's like that everywhere," said Magrat, fighting her way through a thicket of bracken that was growing up from the kitchen regions. "There's the cooks all snoring and nothing but mould in the pots! There's even mice asleep in the pantry!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," said Granny. "There'll be a spinning wheel at the bottom of all this, you mark my words."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A Black Aliss job?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looks like it," said Granny. Then she added, quietly, "Or someone like her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now there was a witch who knew how stories worked," said Nanny. "She used to be in as many as three of ‘em at once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even Magrat knew about Black Aliss. She was said to have been the greatest witch who ever lived - not exactly bad, but so powerful it was sometimes hard to tell the difference. When it came to sending palaces to sleep for a hundred years or getting princesses to spin straw into Glod, no-one did it better than Black Aliss.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I met her once," said Nanny, as they climbed the castle's main staircase, which was a cascade of Old Man's Trousers. "Old Deliria Skibbly took me to see her once, when I was a girl. Of course, she was getting pretty... eccentric by then. Gingerbread houses, that kind of thing." She spoke sadly, as one might talk about an elderly relative who'd taken to wearing her underwear outside her clothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That must have been before those two children shut her up in her own oven?" said Magrat, untangling her sleeve from a briar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Sad, that. I mean, she didn't really ever eat anyone," said Nanny. "Well. Not often. I mean, there was talk, but..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what happens," said Granny. "You get too involved with stories, you get confused. You don't know what's really real and what isn't. And they get you in the end. They send you weird in the head. I don't like stories. They're not real. I don't like things that ain't real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pushed open a door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. A chamber," she said sourly. "Could even be a bower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't the stuff grow quickly!" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Part of the time spell," said Granny. "Ah. There she is. Knew there'd be someone somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a figure lying on a bed, in a thicket of rose bushes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there's the spinning wheel," said Nanny, pointing to a shape just visible in a clump of ivy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't touch it!" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry, I'll pick it up by the treadle and pitch it out of the window."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you know all this?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos it's a rural myth," said Nanny. "It's happened lots of times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax and Magrat looked down at the sleeping figure of a girl of about thirteen, almost silvery under the dust and pollen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't she pretty," sighed Magrat, the generous-hearted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From behind them came the crash of a spinning wheel on some distant cobbles, and then Nanny Ogg appeared, brushing her hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seen it happen a dozen times," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No you ain't," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Once, anyway," said Nanny, unabashed. "And I heard about it dozens of times. Everyone has. Rural myth, like I said. Everyone's heard about it happening in their cousin's friend's neighbour's village - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's because it does," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked up the girl's wrist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's asleep because she'll have got a - " Nanny said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know, I know. I know, right? I know as well as you. You think I don't know?" She bent over the limp hand. "That's fairy godmothering, this is," she added, half to herself. "Always do it impressively. Always meddling, always trying to be in control! Hah! Someone got a bit of poison? Send everyone to sleep for a hundred years! Do it the easy way. All this for one prick. As if that was the end of the world." She paused. Nanny Ogg was standing behind her. There was no possible way she could have detected her expression. "Gytha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Esme?" said Nanny Ogg innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can feel you grinnin'. You can save the tu'penny-ha'penny psycholology for them as wants it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shut her eyes and muttered a few words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shall I use my wand?" said Magrat hesitantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you dare," said Granny, and went back to her muttering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded. "She's definitely getting a bit of colour back," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few minutes later the girl opened her eyes and stared up blearily at Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Time to get up," said Granny, in an unusually cheerful voice, "you're missing the best part of the decade."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl tried to focus on Nanny, then on Magrat, and then looked back at Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny raised her eyebrows and looked at the other two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are - still here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Still?" said Granny. "Never been here before in my life, Miss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But - " the girl looked bewildered. And frightened, Magrat noticed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm like that myself in the mornings, dear," said Nanny Ogg, taking the girl's other hand and patting it. "Never at my best till I've had a cup of tea. I expect everyone else'll be waking up any minute. Of course, it'll take ‘em a while to clean the rats' nests out of the kettles - Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was staring at a dust-covered shape on the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Meddling..." she whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's up, Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax strode across the room and wiped the dust off a huge ornate mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!" she said, and spun around. "We'll be going now," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I thought we were going to have a rest. I mean, it's nearly dawn," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No sense in outstaying our welcome," said Granny, as she left the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we haven't even had a..." Magrat began. She glanced at the mirror. It was a big oval one, in a gilt frame. It looked perfectly normal. It wasn't like Granny Weatherwax to be frightened of her own reflection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's in one of her moods again," said Nanny Ogg. "Come on. No sense in staying here." She patted the bewildered princess on the head. "Cheerio, Miss. A couple of weeks with a broom and an axe and you'll soon have the old place looking like new."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She looked as if she recognized Granny," said Magrat, as they followed the stiff hurrying figure of Esme Weather-wax down the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we know she doesn't, don't we," said Nanny Ogg. "Esme has never been in these parts in her life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I still don't see why we have to rush off," Magrat persisted. "I expect people will be jolly grateful that we've broken the spell and everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rest of the palace was waking up. They jogged past guards staring in amazement at their cobwebbed uniforms and the bushes that were growing everywhere. As they crossed the forested courtyard an older man in faded robes staggered out of a doorway and leaned against the wall, trying to get his bearings. Then he saw the accelerating figure of Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You?" he shouted, and, "Guards!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg didn't hesitate. She snatched Magrat's elbow and broke into a run, catching up with Granny Weatherwax at the castle gates. A guard who was better at mornings than his colleague staggered forward and made an attempt to bar their way with his pike, but Granny just pushed at it and swivelled him around gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they were outside and running for the broomsticks leaning against a convenient tree. Granny snatched at hers without stopping and, for once, it fired up on almost the first attempt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An arrow whiffled past her hat and stuck in a branch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't call that gratitude," said Magrat, as the brooms glided up and over the trees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A lot of people are never at their best just after waking up," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone seemed to think they knew you. Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's broomstick jerked in the wind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They didn't!" she shouted. "They never saw me before, all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They flew on in troubled silence for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Magrat, who in Nanny Ogg's opinion had an innocent talent for treading on dangerous ground, said: "I wonder if we did the right thing? I'm sure it was a job for a handsome prince."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!" said Granny, who was riding ahead. "And what good would that be? Cutting your way through a bit of bramble is how you can tell he's going to be a good husband, is it? That's fairy godmotherly thinking, that is! Goin' around inflicting happy endings on people whether they wants them or not, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing wrong with happy endings," said Magrat hotly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen, happy endings is fine if they turn out happy," said Granny, glaring at the sky. " But you can't make ‘em for other people. Like the only way you could make a happy marriage is by cuttin' their heads off as soon as they say "I do", yes? You can't make happiness..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stared at the distant city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All you can do," she said, "is make an ending."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had breakfast in a forest clearing. It was grilled pumpkin. The dwarf bread was brought out for inspection. But it was miraculous, the dwarf bread. No-one ever went hungry when they had some dwarf bread to avoid. You only had to look at it for a moment, and instantly you could think of dozens of things you'd rather eat. Your boots, for example. Mountains. Raw sheep. Your own foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they tried to get some sleep. At least, Nanny and Magrat did. But all it meant was that they lay awake and listened to Granny Weatherwax muttering under her breath. They'd never seen her so upset.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Afterwards, Nanny suggested that they walk for a while. It was a nice day, she said. This was an interesting kind of forest, she said, with lots of new herbs which could do with bein' looked at. Everyone'd feel better for a stroll in the sunshine, she said. It'd improve their tempers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it was, indeed, a nice forest. After half an hour or so, even Granny Weatherwax was prepared to admit that in certain respects it wasn't totally foreign and shoddy. Magrat wandered off the path occasionally, picking flowers. Nanny even sang a few verses of ‘A Wizard's Staff Has A Knob On The End' with no more than a couple of token protests from the other two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there was still something wrong. Nanny Ogg and Magrat could feel something between them and Granny Weatherwax, some sort of mental wall, something important deliberately hidden and unsaid. Witches usually had few secrets from one another, if only because they were all so nosy that there was never any chance to have secrets. It was worrying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then they turned a corner by a stand of huge oak trees and met the little girl in the red cloak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was skipping along in the middle of the path, singing a song that was simpler and a good deal cleaner than any in Nanny Ogg's repertoire. She didn't see the witches until she was almost on top of them. She stopped, and then smiled innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hello, old women," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ahem," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax bent down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What're you doing out in the forest all by yourself, young lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm taking this basket of goodies to my granny," said the girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny straightened up, a faraway look in her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme," said Nanny Ogg urgently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know. I know," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat leaned down and set her face in the idiot grimace generally used by adults who'd love to be good with children and don't stand a dog's chance of ever achieving it. "Er. Tell me, Miss... did your mother tell you to watch out for any bad wolves that might happen to be in the vicinity?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And your granny..." said Nanny Ogg. "I guess she's a bit bed-bound at the moment, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's why I'm taking her this basket of goodies - " the child began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thought so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know my granny?" said the child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ye-ess," said Granny Weatherwax. "In a way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It happened over Skund way when I was a girl," said Nanny Ogg quietly. "They never even found the gran - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And where is your granny's cottage, little girl?" said Granny Weatherwax loudly, nudging Nanny sharply in the ribs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl pointed up a side track.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not the wicked witch, are you?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me? No. We're - we're - " Granny began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fairies," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's mouth dropped open. Such an explanation would never have occurred to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only my mummy warned me about the wicked witch too," said the girl. She gave Magrat a sharp look. "What kind of fairies?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er. Flower fairies?" said Magrat. "Look, I've got a wand -‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which ones?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which flowers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said Magrat. "Well. I'm... Fairy Tulip and that's..." she avoided looking directly at Granny, "... Fairy... Daisy... and this is..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fairy Hedgehog," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This addition to the supernatural pantheon was given duc consideration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be Fairy Hedgehog," said the child, after some thought. "A hedgehog's not a flower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Cos it's got spikes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So's holly. And thistles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I've got a wand," said Magrat. Only now did she risk a look at Fairy Daisy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ought to be getting along," said Granny Weather-wax. "You just stay here with Fairy Tulip, I think it was, and we'll just go and make sure your granny's all right. All right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet it's not a real wand," said the child, ignoring her and facing Magrat with a child's unerring ability to find a weak link in any chain. "I bet it can't turn things into things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well - " Magrat began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet," said the girl, "I bet you can't turn that tree stump over there into... into... into a pumpkin. Haha, bet you anything you can't. Bet you a trillion dollars you can't turn that stump into a pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see the two of you are going to get along fine," said Fairy Hedgehog. "We won't be long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two broomsticks skimmed low above the forest path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could just be coincidence," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘T'aint," said Granny. "The child even has a red cloak on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had a red cloak when I was fifteen," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but your granny lived next door. You didn't have to worry about wolves when you visited her," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Except old Sumpkins the lodger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but that was just coincidence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A trail of blue smoke drifted among the trees ahead of them. Somewhere away to one side there was the sound of a falling tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Woodcutters!" said Nanny. "It's all right if there's woodcutters! One of them rushes in - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's only what children get told," said Granny, as they sped onwards. "Anyway, that's no good to the grandmother, is it? She's already been et!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always hated that story," said Nanny. "No-one ever cares what happens to poor defenceless old women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The path vanished abruptly on the edge of a glade. Hemmed in by the trees was a straggly kitchen garden, in which a few pathetic stalks fought for what little sun there was. In the middle of the garden was what had to be a thatched cottage because no-one would build a haystack that badly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They leapt off the broomsticks, leaving them to drift to a halt in the bushes, and hammered on the cottage door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We could be too late," said Nanny. "The wolf might - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while there was the muffled sound of someone shuffling across the floor within, and then the door opened a crack. A suspicious eye was visible in the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" said a small and quavering voice from somewhere beneath the eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you grandmother?" Granny Weatherwax demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you the taxgatherers, dear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, ma'am, we're - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- fairies," said Fairy Hedgehog quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't open the door to people I don't know, dear," said the voice, and then it took on a slightly petulant tone. " ‘Specially people who never does the washing up even after I leaves out a bowl of nearly fresh milk for ‘em."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'd like to talk to you for a few minutes," said Fairy Daisy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes? Have you got any identification, dear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know we've got the right grandmother," said Fairy Hedgehog. "There's a family likeness. She's got big ears."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, it's not her that's got the big ears," snapped Fairy Daisy. "It'll be the wolf that's got big ears. That's the whole point. Don't you ever pay attention?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The grandmother watched them with interest. After a lifetime of believing in them she was seeing fairies for the first time, and it was an experience. Granny Weatherwax caught her perplexed expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Put it like this, ma'am," she said, in a despotically reasonable tone of voice, "how would you like to be eaten alive by a wolf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think I would like that, dear, no," said the hidden grandmother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The alternative's us," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lawks. Are you sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On our word as fairies," said Fairy Hedgehog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well. Really? All right. You can come in. But none of your tricks. And mind you do the washing up. You haven't got a pot of gold about you, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's pixies, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, they're the ones in wells. It's goblins she means."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be daft. They're the ones you get under bridges."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's trolls. Everyone knows that's trolls."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not us, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," said the grandmother. "I might have known."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat liked to think she was good with children, and worried that she wasn't. She didn't like them very much, and worried about this too. Nanny Ogg seemed to be effortlessly good with children by alternately and randomly giving them either a sweet or a thick ear, while Granny Weatherwax ignored them for most of the time and that seemed to work just as well. Whereas Magrat cared. It didn't seem fair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bet you a million trillion zillion dollars you can't turn that bush into a pumpkin," said the child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But, look, all the others got turned into pumpkins," Magrat pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's bound not to work sooner or later," said the child placidly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked helplessly at the wand. She'd tried everything- wishing, sub-vocalizing and even, when she'd thought the other witches were out of earshot, banging it against things and shouting, "Anything but pumpkins!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know how to do it really, do you," stated the child.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me," said Magrat, "you said your mummy knows about the big bad wolf in the woods, didn't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But nevertheless she sent you out by yourself to take those goodies to your granny?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing. Just thinking. And you owe me a million trillion zillion squillion dollars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's a certain freemasonry about grandmothers, with the added benefit that no-one has to stand on one leg or recite any oaths in order to join. Once inside the cottage, and with a kettle on the boil, Nanny Ogg was quite at home. Greebo stretched out in front of the meagre fire and dozed off as the witches tried to explain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see how a wolf can get in here, dear," said the grandmother kindly. "I mean, they're wolves. They can't open doors."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax twitched aside a rag of curtain and glared out at the clearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We know," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded towards the little bed in an alcove by the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that where you always sleep?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I'm feeling poorly, dear. Other times I sleeps in the attic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should get along up there now, if I was you. And take my cat up with you, will you? We don't want him getting in the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is this the bit where you clean the house and do all the washing for a saucer of milk?" said the grandmother hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could be. You never know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny, dear. I was expecting you to be shorter - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We get out in the fresh air a lot," said Nanny. "Off you go now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That left the two of them. Granny Weatherwax looked around the cave-like room. The rushes on the floor were well on the way to composthood. Soot encrusted the cobwebs on the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only way housework could be done in this place was with a shovel or, for preference, a match.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny, really," said Nanny, when the old woman had climbed the rickety stairs. "She's younger'n me. Mind you, I take exercise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never took exercise in your life," said Granny Weatherwax, still watching the bushes. "You never did anything you didn't want to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I mean," said Nanny happily. "Look, Esme, I still say this could all be just - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It ain't! I can feel the story. Someone's been making stories happen in these parts, I know it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you know who, too. Don't you, Esme?" said Nanny slyly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She saw Granny look around wildly at the grubby walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon she's too poor to afford a mirror," said Nanny. "I ain't blind, Esme. And I know mirrors and fairy godmothers go together. So what's going on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't saying. I don't want to look a fool if I'm wrong. I'm not going to - there's something coming!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg pressed her nose against the dirty window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't see anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The bushes moved. Get into the bed!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me? I thought it was you who was going into the bed!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't imagine why you'd think that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Come to think of it, neither can I," said Nanny wearily. She picked up the floppy mob-cap from the bedpost, put it on, and slid under the patchwork quilt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Ere, this mattress is stuffed with straw!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't have to lie on it for long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It prickles! And I think there's things in it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something bumped against the wall of the house. The witches fell silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a snuffling noise under the back door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," whispered Nanny, as they waited, "the scullery's terrible. There's no firewood. And there's hardly any food. And there's a jug of milk that's practically on the march –"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sidled quickly across the room to the fireplace, and then back to her station by the front door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a moment there was a scrabbling at the latch, as if it was being operated by someone who was unfamiliar either with doors or with fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door creaked open slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an overwhelming smell of musk and wet fur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Uncertain footsteps tottered across the floor and towards the figure huddling under the bedclothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny raised the mob-cap's floppy frill just enough to see out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wotcha," she said, and then, "Oh, blimey, I never realized you had teeth that big - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax pushed the door shut and stepped forward briskly. The wolf spun around, a paw raised protectively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nooaaaaaw!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hesitated for a second, and then hit it very hard on the head with a cast-iron frying pan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wolf crumpled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg swung her legs out of the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When it happened over Skund way they said it was a werewolf or something, and I thought, no, werewolves aren't like that," she said. "I never thought it was a real wolf. Gave me quite a turn, that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Real wolves don't walk on their hind legs and open doors," said Granny Weatherwax. "Come on, help me get it outside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Took me right back, seeing a great big hairy slathering thing heading towards me," said Nanny, picking up one end of the stunned creature. "Did you ever meet old Sumpkins?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, indeed, a normal-looking wolf, except that it was a lot thinner than most. Ribs showed plainly under the skin and the fur was matted. Granny hauled a bucket of cloudy water from the well next to the privy and poured it over its head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she sat down on a tree stump and watched it carefully. A few birds sang, high in the branches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It spoke," she said. "It tried to say "no"."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wondered about that," said Nanny. "Then I thought maybe I was imagining things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No point in imagining anything," said Granny. "Things are bad enough as they are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wolf groaned. Granny handed the frying pan to Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while she said, "I think I'm going to have a look inside its head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg shook her head. "I wouldn't do that, if I was you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm the one who's me, and I've got to know. Just you stand by with the frying pan."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny concentrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is very difficult to read a human mind. Most humans are thinking about so many things at any given moment that it is almost impossible to pick out one stream in the flood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Animal minds are different. Far less cluttered. Carnivore minds are easiest of all, especially before meals. Colours don't exist in the mental world, but, if they did, a hungry carnivore mind would be hot and purple and sharp as an arrow. And herbivore minds are simple, too - coiled silver springs, poised for flight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But this wasn't any kind of normal mind. It was two minds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny had sometimes picked up the mind of hunters in the forest, when she was sitting quietly of an evening and letting her mind wander. Just occasionally they felt like this, or at least like a faint shadow of this. Just occasionally, when the hunter was about to make a kill, the random streams of thought came together. But this was different. This was the opposite - this was cracked and crippled attempts at cogitation peeling away from the sleek arrowhead of predatory intent. This was a predatory mind trying to think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No wonder it was going mad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg held the frying pan over her head. Her arm trembled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," she said, "who's there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could do with a glass of water," said Granny. Natural caution surfaced through the turmoil of her mind. "Only not out of that well, mind you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny relaxed a little. When a witch started rummaging in someone else's mind, you could never be sure who was coming back. But Granny Weatherwax was the best. Magrat might always be trying to find herself, but Granny didn't even understand the idea of the search. If she couldn't find the way back to her own head, there wasn't a path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's that milk in the cottage," Nanny volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What colour was it again?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... still fairly white."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Nanny Ogg's back was safely turned Granny permitted herself a small shudder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the wolf, wondering what she could do for it. A normal wolf wouldn't enter a cottage, even if it could open the door. Wolves didn't come near humans at all, except if there were a lot of them and it was the end of a very hard winter. And they didn't do that because they were big and bad and wicked, but because they were wolves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This wolf was trying to be human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was probably no cure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here's your milk," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny reached up and took it without looking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone made this wolf think it was a person," she said. "They made it think it was a person and then they didn't think any more about it. It happened a few years ago."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've... got its memories," said Granny. And instincts, too, she thought. She knew it'd be some days before she'd stop wanting to chase sledges over the snow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's stuck between species. In its head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we help it?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shook her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's gone on for too long. It's habit now. And it's starving. It can't go one way, it can't go t'other. It can't act like a wolf, and it can't manage being a human. And it can't go on like it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned to face Nanny for the first time. Nanny took a step back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't imagine how it feels," she said. "Wandering around for years. Not capable of acting human, and not able to be a wolf. You can't imagine how that feels."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon maybe I can," said Nanny. "In your face. Maybe I can. Who'd do that to a creature?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got my suspicions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was approaching, with the child. Beside them walked one of the woodcutters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah," said Granny. "Yes. Of course. There's always got to be" - she spat the words - "a happy ending."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A paw tried to grip her ankle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked down into the wolf's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Preeees," it growled. "Annn enndinggg? Noaaaow?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knelt down, and took the paw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yessss!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood up again, all authority, and beckoned to the approaching trio.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr Woodcutter?" she said. "A job for you..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woodcutter never understood why the wolf laid its head on the stump so readily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or why the old woman, the one in whom anger roiled like pearl barley in a bubbling stew, insisted afterwards that it be buried properly instead of skinned and thrown in the bushes. She had been very insistent about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And that was the end of the big bad wolf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an hour later. Quite a few of the woodcutters had wandered up to the cottage, where there seemed to be a lot of interesting activity going on. Woodcutting is not a job that normally offers much in the way of diversion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was washing the floor with as much magical assistance as could be afforded by a bucket of soapy water and a scrubbing brush. Even Nanny Ogg, whose desultory interest in the proud role of housewife had faded completely just as soon as her eldest daughter was old enough to hold a duster, was cleaning the walls. The old grandmother, who wasn't entirely in touch with events, was anxiously following both of them around with a saucer of milk. Spiders who had inherited the ceiling for generations were urged gently but firmly out of the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Granny Weatherwax was walking around the clearing with the head woodcutter, a barrel-chested young man who clearly thought he looked better in his studded leather wristlets than was, in fact, the case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's been around for years, right?" he said. "Always lurking around the edges of villages and that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you never tried talking to it?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talk to it? It's a wolf, right? You don't talk to wolves. Animals can't talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. I see. And what about the old woman? There's a lot of you woodcutters. Did you ever, you know, drop in to see her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh? No fear!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The head woodcutter leaned forward conspiratorially.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, they say she's a witch, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really?" said Granny. "How do you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's got all the signs, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What signs are those?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woodcutter was pricked by a slight uneasiness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... she's... she lives all by herself in the wood, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes... ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And... and... she's got a hook nose and she's always muttering to herself..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes... ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she's got no teeth, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lawks," said Granny. "I can see where you wouldn't want to be having with the likes of her, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right!" said the woodcutter, relieved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quite likely turn you into just about anything as soon as look at you, right?" Granny stuck her finger in her ear and twiddled it reflectively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They can do that, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet they can. I bet they can," said Granny. "Makes me glad there's all you big strong lads around. Teh, tch. Hmm. Can I have a look at your chopper, young man?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed over his axe. Granny sagged dramatically as she grasped it. There were still traces of wolf blood on the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deary me, it's a big one," she said. "And you're good with this, I expect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Won the silver belt two years running at the forest revels," said the woodcutter proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two years running? Two years running? Lawks. That is good. That's very good. And here's me hardly able to lift it." Granny grasped the axe in one hand and swung it inexpertly. The woodcutter jumped backwards as the blade whirred past his face and then buried itself a quarter of an inch deep in a tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry about that," said Granny Weatherwax. "Aren't I a daft old woman! Never was any good with anything technical!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned at her, and tried to pull the axe free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sank to his knees, his face suddenly white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny leaned down until she was level with his ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could have seen to the old woman," she said quietly. "You could have talked to the wolf. But you didn't, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to speak, but his teeth didn't seem to want to part.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see you're very sorry about all that," she said. "I can see you're seein' the error of your ways. I bet you can't wait to be up and repairing her cottage for her, and getting the garden back in good order, and seeing she has fresh milk every day and a good supply of wood, right? In fact I wouldn't be surprised if you wasn't generous enough to build her a new cottage, with a proper well an' all. Somewhere near the village so she don't have to live alone, right? You know, I can see the future sometimes and I just know that's what's goin' to happen, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sweat ran off his face. Now his lungs didn't seem to be operating, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"An' I knows you're goin' to keep your word, and I'm so pleased about it that I'm going to make sure you're especially lucky," said Granny, her voice still in the same pleasant monotone. "I knows it can be a dangerous job, woodchoppin'. People can get hurt. Trees can accidentally fall on ‘em, or the top of their chopper can suddenly come off and cut their head open." The woodcutter shuddered as Granny went on: "So what I'm goin' to do is a little spell to make sure that none of this ‘appens to you. On account of me bein' so grateful. Because of you helpin' the old lady. Right? Just nod."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He managed to move his head a fraction. Granny Weatherwax smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There!" she said, standing up and brushing a speck of leafmould off her dress. "You see how sweet life can be, if we all helps one another?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches left around lunchtime. By then the old woman's garden was full of people, and the air with the sound of sawing and hammering. News like Granny Weatherwax travels fast. Three woodcutters were digging over the vegetable plot, two more were fighting to clean the chimney, and four of them were halfway down a new well that was being dug with impressive speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old grandmother, who was still the kind of person who hangs on to one idea until another one dislodges it by force, was running out of saucers to put the milk in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches sneaked away in all the busyness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There," said Magrat, as they strolled down the path, "it just goes to show how people will pitch in and help, if only someone sets an example. You don't have to bully people all the time, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg glanced at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I saw you talking to the head woodcutter," she said. "What was you talking about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sawdust," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One of the woodcutters told me," said Magrat, "that there's been other odd things happening in this forest. Animals acting human, he said. There used to be a family of bears living not far away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing unusual about a family of bears living together," said Nanny. "They're very convivial animals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In a cottage?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's unusual."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I mean," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd definitely feel a bit awkward about going round to borrow a cup of sugar," said Nanny. "I expect the neighbours had something to say about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Magrat. "They said "oink"."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What'd they say "oink" for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because they couldn't say anything else. They were pigs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had people like that next door when we lived at - " Nanny began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean pigs. You know. Four legs? Curly tail? What pork is before it's pork? Pigs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't see anyone letting pigs live in a cottage," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He said they didn't. The pigs built their own. There were three of them. Little pigs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened to them?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The wolf ate them. They were the only animals stupid enough to let him get near them, apparently. Nothing was found of them except their spirit level."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a shame."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The woodcutter says they didn't build very good houses, mind you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's only to be expected. What with the trotters and all," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He says the roof leaks something dreadful, right over his bed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches walked on in silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember hearing once," said Nanny, with the occasional glance at Granny Weatherwax, "about some ole enchantress in history who lived on an island and turned shipwrecked sailors into pigs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a terrible thing to do," said Magrat, on cue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose it's all according to what you really are, inside," said Nanny. "I mean, look at Greebo here." Greebo, curled around her shoulders like a smelly fur, purred. "He's practically a human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do talk a lot of tosh, Gytha," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's ‘cos people won't tell me what they really think is going on," said Nanny Ogg, grimly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said I'm not sure," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You looked into the wolf's mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, then..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sighed. "Someone's been here before us. Passing through. Someone who knows about the power of stories, and uses ‘em. And the stories have... kind of hung around. They do that, when they get fed..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What'd anyone want to do that for?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Practice," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Practice? What for?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect we'll find out presently," said Granny gnomically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ought to tell me what you think," said Magrat. "I am the official godmother around here, you know. I ought to be told things. You've got to tell me things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg went chilly. This was the kind of emotional countryside with which she was, as head Ogg, extremely familiar. That sort of comment at this sort of time was like the tiny sliding of snow off the top branch of a tall tree high in the mountains during the thaw season. It was one end of a process that, without a doubt, would end with a dozen villages being engulfed. Whole branches of the Ogg family had stopped talking to other branches of the Ogg family because of a ‘Thank you very much' in the wrong tones and the wrong place, and this was far worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now," she said hurriedly, "why don't we - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have to explain anything," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we're supposed to be three witches," said Magrat. "If you can call us witches," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean by that, pray?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pray?" thought Nanny. Someone has ended a sentence with ‘pray?" That's like that bit when someone hits someone else with a glove and then throws it on the floor. There's no going back when someone's ended a sentence with ‘pray?" But she tried, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about a nice - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat plunged on with the brave desperation of someone dancing in the light of their burning bridges.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," she said, "it seems to me - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It seems to me," Magrat tried again, "that the only magic we do is all, well, headology. Not what anyone else would call magic. It's just glaring at people and tricking them. Taking advantage of their gullibility. It wasn't what I expected when I set out to become a witch -‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And who says," said Granny Weatherwax, slowly and deliberately, "that you've become a witch now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word, the wind is getting up, perhaps we should - " said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you say?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg put her hand over her eyes. Asking someone to repeat a phrase you'd not only heard very clearly but were also exceedingly angry about was around Defcon II in the lexicon of squabble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should have thought my voice was clear enough," said Granny. "I'm very amazed my voice wasn't clear enough. It sounded clear enough to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looks a bit gusty, why don't we - ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I should just think I can be smug and bad-tempered and ill-considerate enough to be a witch," said Magrat. "That's all that's required, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ill-considerate? Me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You like people who need help, because when they need help they're weak, and helping them makes you feel strong! What harm would a bit of magic do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because it'd never stop at just a bit, you stupid girl!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat backed off, her face flushed. She reached into her bag and pulled out a slim volume, which she flourished like a weapon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stupid I may be," she panted, "but at least I'm trying to learn things! Do you know the kind of things people can use magic for? Not just illusion and bullying! There's people in this book that can... can... walk on hot coals, and stick their hands in a fire and not get hurt!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cheap trickery!" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They really can!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Impossible. No-one can do that!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It shows they can control things! Magic's got to be more than just knowing things and manipulating people!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh? It's all wishing on stars and fairy dust, is it? Making people happier?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's got to be some of that! Otherwise what's the good of anything? Anyway... when I went to Desiderata's cottage you were looking for the wand, weren't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just didn't want it falling into the wrong hands!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like any hands but yours, I expect!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They glared at each other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Haven't you got any romance in your soul?" said Magrat plaintively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Granny. "I ain't. And stars don't care what you wish, and magic don't make things better, and no-one doesn't get burned who sticks their hand in a fire. If you want to amount to anything as a witch, Magrat Garlick, you got to learn three things. What's real, what's not real, and what's the difference - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And always get the young man's name and address," said Nanny. "It worked for me every time. Only joking," she said, as they both glared at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind was rising, here on the edge of the forest. Bits of grass and leaves whirled through the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going the right way, anyway," said Nanny madly, seeking anything that would be a distraction. "Look. It says "Genua" on the signpost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did indeed. It was an old, worm-eaten signpost right on the edge of the forest. The end of the arm had been carved into the likeness of a pointing finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A proper road, too," Nanny burbled on. The row cooled a bit, simply because both sides were not talking to each other. Not simply not exchanging vocal communication - that's just an absence of speaking. This went right through that and out the other side, into the horrible glowering worlds of Not Talking to One Another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yellow bricks," said Nanny. "Whoever heard of anyone making a road out of yellow bricks?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Granny Weatherwax stood looking in opposite directions with their arms folded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brightens the place up, I suppose," said Nanny. On the horizon, Genua sparkled in the middle of some more greenery. In between, the road dipped into a wide valley dotted with little villages. A river snaked through them on the way to the city.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind whipped at their skirts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll never fly in this," said Nanny, still womanfully trying to make enough conversation for three people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we'll walk, then, eh?" she said, and added, because there's a spark of spitefulness even in innocent souls like Nanny Ogg's, "Singing as we go, how about it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure it's not my place to mind what anyone chooses to do," said Granny. "It's nothing to do with me. I expect some people with wands and big ideas might have something to say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh!" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They set off along the brick road towards the distant city, in single file with Nanny Ogg as a kind of mobile buffer state in the middle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What some people need," said Magrat, to the world in general, "is a bit more heart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What some people need," said Granny Weatherwax, to the stormy sky, "is a lot more brain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she clutched at her hat to stop the wind from blowing it off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What I need, thought Nanny Ogg fervently, is a drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three minutes later a farmhouse dropped on her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By this time the witches were well spaced out. Granny Weatherwax was striding along in front, Magrat was sulking along at the rear, and Nanny was in the middle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she said afterwards, it wasn't even as if she was singing. It was just that one moment there was a small, plump witch, and the next there was the collapsing remains of a wooden farmhouse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax turned and found herself looking at a crumbling, unpainted front door. Magrat nearly walked into a back door of the same grey, bleached wood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound but the crackle of settling timber.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both opened their doors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a very simple design of house, with two downstairs rooms separated by a front-to-back passageway. In the middle of the passageway, surrounded by shattered and termite-ridden floor-boards, under the pointy hat that had been rammed down to her chin, was Nanny Ogg. There was no sign of Greebo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wha' happened?" she said. "Wha' happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A farmhouse dropped on your head," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. One o' them things," said Nanny vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny gripped her by the shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha? How many fingers am I holding up?" she said urgently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wha' fingers? ‘S'all gone dark."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Granny gripped the brim of Nanny's hat and half lifted, half unscrewed it from her head. She blinked at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the willow reinforcement," she said, as the pointy hat creaked back into shape like a resurrecting umbrella. She was swaying gently. "Stop a hammer blow, a hat with willow reinforcement. All them struts, see. Distributes the force. I shall write to Mr Vernissage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat, bemused, looked around the little house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It just dropped out of the sky!" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could have been a big tornado or something somewhere," said Nanny Ogg. "Picked it up, see, then the wind drops and down it comes. You get funny things happening in high winds. Remember that big gale we had last year? One of my hens laid the same egg four times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's rambling," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No I ain't, that's just my normal talking," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax peered into one of the rooms. "I suppose there wouldn't be any food and drink about the place?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I could force myself to drink some brandy," said Nanny quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat peered up the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo-ee," she called, in the strangled voice of someone who wants to be heard without doing anything so bad-mannered as raise their voice. "Is there anyone here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny, on the other hand, looked under the stairs. Greebo was a cowering ball of fur in a corner. She hauled him out by the scruff of his neck and gave him a slightly bewildered pat. Despite Mr Vernissage "s millinery masterpiece, despite the worm-eaten floor, and despite even the legendary thick skull of the Oggs, she was definitely feeling several twinkles short of a glitter and suffering a slight homesick-tinged dip in her usual sunny nature. People didn't hit you over the head with farmhouses back home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, Greebo," she said, "I don't think we're in Lancre."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've found some jam," said Granny Weatherwax, from the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It didn't take a lot to cheer up Nanny Ogg. "That's fine," she called out. "It'll go nicely on the dwarf bread."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat came into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure we should be taking other people's provisions," she said. "I mean, this place must belong to someone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Did someone speak, Gytha?" said Granny Weather-wax archly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny rolled her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was merely saying, Nanny," said Magrat, "that this isn't our property."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She says it don't belong to us, Esme," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell anyone who wants to know, Gytha, that it's like salvage from a shipwreck," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She says finders keepers, Magrat," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something flickered past the window. Magrat went and peered out through the grimy pane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's funny. There's a lot of dwarfs dancing round the house," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes?" said Nanny, opening a cupboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stiffened. "Are they - I means, ask her if they're singing," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They singing, Magrat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can hear something," said Magrat. "Sounds like "Dingdong, dingdong"."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a dwarf song all right," said Nanny. "They're the only people who can make a hiho last all day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They seem very happy about it," said Magrat doubtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably it was their farmhouse and they're glad to get it back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a hammering on the back door. Magrat opened it. A crowd of brightly dressed and embarrassed dwarfs stepped back hurriedly and then peered up at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said the one who was apparently the leader, "is... is the old witch dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which old witch?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf looked at her for a while with his mouth open. He turned and had a whispered consultation with his colleagues. Then he turned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How many have you got?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a choice of two," said Magrat. She wasn't feeling in a very good mood and wasn't prompted to aid the conversation more than necessary. Uncharacteristic nastiness made her add, "Free for the asking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh." The dwarf considered this. "Well, which old witch did the house land on?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny? No, she's not dead. She's just a bit stunned. But thanks all the same for asking," said Magrat. "That's very kind of you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This seemed to puzzle the dwarfs. They went into a huddle. There was a lot of sotto voce arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the head dwarf turned back to Magrat. He removed his helmet and turned it around and around nervously in his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," he said, "can we have her boots?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her boots?" said the dwarf, blushing. "Can we have them, please?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want her boots for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf looked at her. Then he turned and went into a huddle with his colleagues again. He turned back to Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've just got this... feeling... that we ought to have her boots," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood there blinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I'll go and ask," said Magrat. "But I don't think she'll say yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she went to close the door the dwarf twiddled his hat some more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are ruby-coloured, aren't they?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, they're red," said Magrat. "Is red all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got to be red." All the other dwarfs nodded. "It's no good if they're not red."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat gave him a blank look and shut the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny," she said slowly, when she was back in the kitchen, "there's some dwarfs outside who want your boots."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked up. She'd found a stale loaf in a cupboard and was industriously chewing. It was amazing what you'd eat if the alternative was dwarf bread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What d'they want ‘em for?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't say. They just said they had a feeling they want your boots."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That sounds highly suspicious to me," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Old Shaker Wistley over Creel Springs way was a devil for boots," said Nanny, putting down the breadknife. "Especially black button boots. He used to collect ‘em. If he saw you going past in a new pair he had to go and have a lie-down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon that's a bit sophisticated for dwarfs," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they want to drink out of ‘em," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, drink out of them?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah, well, that's what they do in foreign parts," said Nanny. "They drink fizzy wine out of ladies' boots."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked down at Nanny's boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not even Nanny could imagine what anyone would want to drink out of them, or what they would do afterwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word. That's even more sophisticated than old Shaker Wistley," said Nanny reflectively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They seemed a bit puzzled about it," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect they would be. It ain't often people get a feeling they ought to go around pulling a decent witch's boots off. This sounds like another story flapping around. I think," said Granny Weatherwax, "that we ought to go and talk to these dwarfs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She strode out into the passageway and opened the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarfs backed away at the sight of her. There was a lot of whispering and elbowing and muttered comments in the nature of ‘No, yew', and ‘I asked last time'. Finally a dwarf was pushed forward. It might have been the original dwarf. It was hard to tell, with dwarfs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," he said. "Er. Boots?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf scratched its head. "Damned if I know," he said. "We were just wondering about it ourselves, "s'matterofact. We were just coming off shift in the coal mine half an hour ago, we saw the farmhouse land on... on the witch, an'... well..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just knew you had to run up and steal her boots?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf's face widened into a relieved grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right!" he said. "And sing the Ding-dong song. Only she was supposed to be squashed. No offence meant," he added quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the willow reinforcement," said a voice behind Granny. "Worth its weight in glod."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stared for a while, and then smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you lads ought to come inside," she said. "I've got some questions to ask you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarfs looked very uncertain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," said the spokesdwarf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nervous of going into a house with witches in it?" said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spokesdwarf nodded, and then went red. Magrat and Nanny Ogg exchanged glances behind Granny's back. Something had definitely gone wrong somewhere. In the mountains dwarfs certainly weren't afraid of witches. The problem was to stop them digging up your floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've been down from the mountains for some time, I expect," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very promising seam of coal down here," mumbled the spokesdwarf, twiddling his hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bet it's a long time since you've had proper dwarf bread, then," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spokesdwarf's eyes misted over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Baked from the finest stone-ground grit, just like mother used to jump up and down on it," Granny went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sort of collective sigh went up from the dwarfs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just can't get it down here," said the spokesdwarf, to the ground. "It's the water, or something. It falls to bits after hardly any years at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They puts flour in it," said someone behind him, sourly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's worse'n that. The baker over in Genua puts dried fruit in it," said another dwarf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, now," said Granny, rubbing her hands together, "I may be able to help you here. Could be I've got some dwarf bread to spare."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nah. Not proper dwarf bread," said the spokesdwarf moodily. "Proper dwarf bread's got to be dropped in rivers and dried out and sat on and left and looked at every day and put away again. You just can't get it down here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This could be," said Granny Weatherwax, "your lucky day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To be frank," said Nanny Ogg, "I think the cat pissed on some of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spokesdwarf looked up, his eyes aglow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hot damn!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason et everybody,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     What a life, all kinds of thing gain on, what with talkin wolves and women asleep in castles, I shall have a story or two to tell you when I gets back and no mistake. Also, dont tawk to me about farmhouses, which reminds me, please send somone to Mr Vemissage over in Slice and present Mrs Ogg's compluments and what a good hat he makes, he can say ‘As Approved by Nanny Ogg', it stops 100% of all known farmhouses, also, if you writes to people saying how good their stuff is sometimes you get free stuff, there could be a new hat in this for me so see to it.
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith stepped out from her room of mirrors. Shadowy images of herself trailed after her, fading.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Witches ought to be squashed when a farmhouse lands on them. Lilith knew that. All squashed, except for their boots sticking out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes she despaired. People just didn't seem able to play their parts properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wondered whether there was such a thing as the opposite of a fairy godmother. Most things had their opposite, after all. If so, she wouldn't be a bad fairy godmother, because that's just a good fairy godmother seen from a different viewpoint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The opposite would be someone who was poison to stories and, thought Lilith, quite the most evil creature in the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, here in Genua was one story no-one could stop. It had momentum, this one. Try to stop it and it'd absorb you, make you part of its plot. She didn't have to do a thing. The story would do it for her. And she had the comfort of knowing that she couldn't lose. After all, she was the good one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She strolled along the battlements and down the stairs to her own room, where the two sisters were waiting. They were good at waiting. They could sit for hours without blinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Duc refused even to be in the same room as them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their heads turned as she came in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd never given them voices. It wasn't necessary. It was enough that they were beautiful and could be made to understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now you must go to the house," she said. "And this is very important. Listen to me. Some people will be coming to see Ella tomorrow. You must let them do so, do you understand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were watching her lips. They watched anything that moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We shall need them for the story. It won't work properly unless they try to stop it. And afterwards... perhaps I will give you voices. You'll like that, won't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at one another, and then at her. And then at the cage in the corner of the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith smiled, and reached in, and took out two white mice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The youngest witch might be just your type," she said. "I shall have to see what I can do with her. And now... open..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The broomsticks drifted through the afternoon air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For once, the witches weren't arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarfs had been a taste of home. It would have done anyone's heart good to see the way they just sat and stared at the dwarf bread, as if consuming it with their eyes, which was the best way to consume dwarf bread. Whatever it was that had driven them to seek ruby-coloured boots seemed to wear off under its down-to-earth influence. As Granny said, you could look a long way before you found anything realer than dwarf bread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she'd gone off alone to talk to the head dwarf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wouldn't tell the others what he'd told her, and they didn't feel bold enough to ask. Now she flew a little ahead of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally she'd mutter something like ‘Godmothers!" or ‘Practising!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But even Magrat, who hadn't had as much experience, could feel Genua now, as a barometer feels the air pressure. In Genua, stories came to life. In Genua, someone set out to make dreams come true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Remember some of your dreams?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Genua nestled on the delta of the Vieux river, which was the source of its wealth. And Genua was wealthy. Genua had once controlled the river mouth and taxed its traffic in a way that couldn't be called piracy because it was done by the city government, and therefore sound economics and perfectly all right. And the swamps and lakes back in the delta provided the crawling, swimming and flying ingredients of a cuisine that would have been world famous if, as has already been indicated, people travelled very much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Genua was rich, lazy and unthreatened, and had once spent quite a lot of time involved in that special kind of civic politics that comes naturally to some city states. For example, once it had been able to afford the largest branch of the Assassins' Guild outside Ankh-Morpork, and its members were so busy that you sometimes had to wait for months.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But the Assassins had all left years ago. Some things sicken even jackals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The city came as a shock. From a distance, it looked like a complicated white crystal growing out of the greens and browns of the swamp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Closer to, it resolved into, firstly, an outer ring of smaller buildings, then an inner ring of large, impressive white houses and, finally, at the very centre, a palace. It was tall and pretty and multi-turreted, like a toy castle or some kind of confectionery extravaganza. Every slim tower looked designed to hold a captive princess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat shivered. But then she thought of the wand. A godmother had responsibilities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Reminds me of another one of them Black Aliss stories," said Granny Weatherwax. "I remember when she locked up that girl with the long pigtails in a tower just like one of them. Rumple-stiltzel or someone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But she got out," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, it does you good to let your hair down," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh. Rural myths," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They drew nearer to the city walls. Then Magrat said, "There's guards on the gate. Are we going to fly over?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stared at the highest tower through narrowed eyes. "No," she said. "We'll land and walk in. So's not to worry people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a nice flat green bit just behind those trees," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny walked up and down experimentally. Her boots squeaked and gurgled in watery accusation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I said I'm sorry," said Magrat. "It just looked so flat!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Water gen'rally does," said Nanny, silting on a tree stump and wringing out her dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But even you couldn't tell it was water," said Magrat. "It looks so... so grassy with all that weed and stuff floating on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seems to me the land and the water round here can't decide who is which," said Nanny. She looked around at the miasmic landscape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trees grew out of the swamp. They had a jagged, foreign look and seemed to be rotting as they grew. Where the water was visible, it was black like ink. Occasionally a few bubbles would eructate to the surface like the ghosts of beans on bath night. And somewhere over in the distance was the river, if it was possible to be that sure in this land of thick water and ground that wobbled when you set foot on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's odd," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thought I saw... something running..." muttered Nanny. "Over there. Between the trees."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Must be a duck then, in this place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was bigger'n a duck," said Nanny. "Funny thing is, it looked a bit like a little house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh yes, running along with smoke coming out of the chimney, I expect," said Granny witheringly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny brightened. "You saw it too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny rolled her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," she said, "let's get to the road."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er," said Magrat, "how?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at the nominal ground between their reasonably dry refuge and the road. It had a yellowish appearance. There were floating branches and tufts of suspiciously green grass. Nanny pulled a branch off the fallen tree she was sitting on and tossed it a few yards. It struck damply, and sank with the noise of someone trying to get the last bit out of the milkshake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We fly over to it, of course," Nanny said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You two can," said Granny. "There's nowhere for me to run and get mine started."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the end Magrat ferried her across on her broom, Nanny bringing up the rear with Granny's erratic stick in tow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just ‘ope no-one saw us, that's all," said Granny, when they'd reached the comparative safety of the road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Other roads joined the swamp causeway as they got nearer to the city. They were crowded, and there was a long line at the gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From ground level, the city was even more impressive. Against the steam of the swamps it shone like a polished stone. Coloured flags flew over the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looks very jolly," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very clean," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It just looks like that from outside," said Granny, who had seen a city before. "When you get inside it'll be all beggars and noise and gutters full of I don't know what, you mark my words."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're turning quite a lot of people away," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They said on the boat that lots of people come here for Fat Lunchtime," said Granny. "Probably you get lots of people who ain't the right sort."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Half a dozen guards watched them approach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very smartly turned out," said Granny. "That's what I like to see. Not like at home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were only six suits of chain mail in the whole of Lancre, made on the basis of one-size-doesn't-quite-fit-all. Bits of string and wire had to be employed to take in the slack, since in Lancre the role of palace guard was generally taken by any citizen who hadn't got much to do at the moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These guards were all six-footers and, even Granny had to admit, quite impressive in their jolly red-and-blue uniforms. The only other real city guards she'd ever seen were those in Ankh-Morpork. The sight of Ankh-Morpork's city guard made thoughtful people wonder who could possibly attack that was worse. They certainly weren't anything to look at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To her amazement, two pikes barred her way as she stepped under the arched gateway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're not attacking, you know," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A corporal gave her a salute.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No ma'am," he said. "But we have orders to stop borderline cases."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Borderline?" said Nanny. "What's borderline about us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The corporal swallowed. Granny Weatherwax's gaze was a hard one to meet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," he said, "you're a bit... grubby."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a ringing silence. Granny took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We had a bit of an accident in the swamp," said Magrat quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure it'll be all right," said the corporal wretchedly. "The captain'll be here directly. Only there's all kinds of trouble if we let the wrong sort in. You'd be amazed at some of the people we get here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't go letting the wrong sort in," said Nanny Ogg. "We wouldn't want you to let the wrong sort in. I daresay we wouldn't want to come into the kind of city that'd let the wrong sort in, would we, Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat kicked her on the ankle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good thing we're the right sort," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening, corporal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The captain of the guard strolled out of a door in the archway and walked over to the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"These... ladies want to come in, sir," said the corporal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're a bit... you know, not one hundred per cent clean," said the corporal, wilting under Granny's stare. "And one of them's got messy hair - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well!" snapped Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"- and one of them looks like she uses bad language."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Nanny, her grin evaporating. "I'll tan your hide, you little bugger!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But, corporal, they have got brooms," said the captain. "It's very hard for cleaning staff to look tidy all the time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cleaning staff?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure they're as anxious as you are to get tidied up," said the captain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," said Granny, empowering the words with much the same undertones as are carried by words like ‘Charge!" and ‘Kill!", "Excuse me, but does this pointy hat I'm wearing mean anything to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soldiers looked at it politely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you give me a clue?" said the captain, eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It means - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll just trot along in, if it's all the same to you," said Nanny Ogg. "Got a lot of cleaning up to do." She flourished her broomstick. "Come, ladies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She and Magrat grasped Granny's elbows firmly and propelled her under the archway before her fuse burned out. Granny Weatherwax always held that you ought to count up to ten before losing your temper. No-one knew why, because the only effect of this was to build up the pressure and make the ensuing explosion a whole lot worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches didn't stop until they were out of sight of the gate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, Esme," said Nanny soothingly, "you shouldn't take it personal. And we are a bit mucky, you must admit. They were just doing their job, all right? How about that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They treated us as if we was ordinary people," said Granny, in a shocked voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is foreign parts, Granny," said Magrat. "Anyway, you said the men on the boat didn't recognize the hat, either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But then I dint want ‘em to," said Granny. "That's different."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's just an... an incident, Granny," said Magrat. "They were just stupid soldiers. They don't even know a proper free-form hairstyle when they see it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked around. Crowds milled past them, almost in silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you must admit it's a nice clean city," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They took stock of their surroundings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was certainly the cleanest place they'd ever seen. Even the cobblestones had a polished look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could eat your tea off the street," said Nanny, as they strolled along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but you'd eat your tea off the street anyway," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't eat all of it. Even the gutters are scrubbed. Not a Ronald in sight, look."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you said that in Ankh-Morpork - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is somewhere else!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's so spotless," said Magrat. "Makes you wish you'd cleaned your sandals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." Nanny Ogg squinted along the street. "Makes you wish you were a better person, really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you two whispering?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She followed their gaze. There was a guard standing on the street corner. When he saw them looking at him he touched his helmet and gave them a brief smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even the guards are polite," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there's so many of them, too," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazing, really, needing all these guards in a city where people are so clean and quiet," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps there's so much niceness to be spread around they need a lot of people to do it," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches wandered through the packed streets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice houses, though," said Magrat. "Very decorative and olde-worlde."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax, who lived in a cottage that was as olde-worlde as it was possible to be without being a lump of metamorphic rock, made no comment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's feet started to complain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ought to find somewhere to stop the night," she said. "We can look for this girl in the morning. We'll all do a lot better for a good night's sleep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And a bath," said Magrat. "With soothing herbs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good idea. I could just go a bath too," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word, doesn't autumn roll around quickly," said Granny sourly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? When did you last have a bath, Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, last?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See? Then there's no call to make comments about my ablutions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Baths is unhygienic," Granny declared. "You know I've never agreed with baths. Sittin" around in your own dirt like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you do, then?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just washes," said Granny. "All the bits. You know. As and when they becomes available."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">However available they were, and no further information was vouchsafed on this point, they were certainly more available than accommodation in Genua in Fat Lunchtime.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All the taverns and inns were more than full. Gradually the press of crowds pushed them out of the main streets and into the less fashionable quarters of the city, but still there was no room for the three of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had had enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The very next place we see," she said, setting her jaw firmly, "we're goin' in. What's that inn over there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg peered at the sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hotel... No... Va... cancies," she muttered, and then brightened up. "Hotel Nova Cancies," she repeated. "That means "new, er, Cancies" in foreign," she added helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll do," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pushed open the door. A round, red-faced man looked up from the desk. He was new to the job and very nervous; the last incumbent had disappeared for not being round and red-faced enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny didn't waste time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see this hat?" she demanded. "You see this broom?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked from her to the broom, and back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" he said. "What's that mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Means we want three rooms for the night," said Granny, looking smugly at the other two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With sausage," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And one vegetarian meal," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked at all three of them. Then he went over to the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see this door? You see this sign?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't bother about signs," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, then," said the man, "I give up. What's a pointy hat and a broom really mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That means I'm a witch," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man put his head on one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" he said. "Is that another word for daft old woman?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dear Jason and everyone, wrote Nanny Ogg, Dyou know, they dont know about witches here, thats how bakcward they are in foreign pans. -A man gave Esme some Cheek and she would of lost her Temper so me and Magrat and I got hold of her and rushed her out because if you make someone think they've been turned into something there's always trouble, you remember what happened larst time when afterwards you had to go and dig a pond for Mr Wilkins to live in...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">They had managed to find a table to themselves in a tavern. It was packed with people of all species. The noise was at shouting level and smoke wreathed the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will you stop that scribbling, Gytha Ogg. It gets on my nerves," snapped Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They must have witches here," said Magrat. "Everywhere has witches. You've got to have witches abroad. You find witches everywhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like cockroaches," said Nanny Ogg cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You should've let me make him believe he was a frog," muttered Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't do that, Esme. You can't go around making people believe they're things just because they've been cheeky and don't know who you are," said Gytha. "Otherwise we'd be up to here in people hopping about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Despite many threats, Granny Weatherwax had never turned anyone into a frog. The way she saw it, there was a technically less cruel but cheaper and much more satisfying thing you could do. You could leave them human and make them think they were a frog, which also provided much innocent entertainment for passers-by.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always felt sorry for Mr Wilkins," said Magrat, staring moodily at the table top. "It was so sad watching him try to catch flies on his tongue."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He shouldn't have said what he said," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, that you were a domineering old busybody?" said Nanny innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't mind criticism," said Granny. "You know me. I've never been one to take offence at criticism. No-one could say I'm the sort to take offence at criticism - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not twice, anyway," said Nanny. "Not without blowing bubbles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's just that I can't stand unfairness," said Granny. "And you stop that grinning! Anyway, I don't see why you're making a fuss about it. It wore off after a couple of days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Wilkins says he still goes out swimming a lot," said Magrat. "It's given him a whole new interest, she said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps they have a different kind of witch in the city," said Magrat hopelessly. "Perhaps they wear different sort of clothes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's only one kind of witch," said Granny. "And we're it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around the room. Of course, she thought, if someone was keeping witches out, people wouldn't know about them. Someone who didn't want anyone else meddling here. But she let us in...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, well, at least we're in the dry," said Nanny. A drinker standing in a crowd behind her threw back his head to laugh and spilled beer down her back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She muttered something under her breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat saw the man look down to take another swig and stare, wide-eyed, into the mug. Then he dropped it and fought his way out of the room, clutching at his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you do to his drink?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ain't old enough to be tole," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At home, if a witch wanted a table to herself it... just happened. The sight of the pointy hat was enough. People kept a polite distance, occasionally sending free drinks to her. Even Magrat got respect, not particularly because anyone was in awe of her, but because a slight to one witch was a slight to all witches and no-one wanted Granny Weatherwax coming around to explain this to them. Here they were being jostled, as if they were ordinary. Only Nanny Ogg's warning hand on Granny Weatherwax's arm was keeping a dozen jovial drinkers from unnatural amphibianhood, and even Nanny's usually very elastic temper was beginning to twang. She always prided herself on being as ordinary as muck, but there was ordinary and there was ordinary. It was like being that Prince Whatsisname, in the nursery story, who liked to wander around his kingdom dressed up as a commoner; she'd always had a shrewd suspicion that the little pervert made sure people knew who he was beforehand, just in case anyone tried to get too common. It was like getting muddy. Getting muddy when you had a nice hot tub to look forward to was fun; getting muddy when all you had to look forward to was more mud was no fun at all. She reached a conclusion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, why don't we have a drink?" said Nanny Ogg brightly. "We'd all feel better for a drink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh no," said Granny. "You caught me with that herbal drink last time. I'm sure there was alcohol in that. I def'nitely felt a bit woozy after the sixth glass. I ain't drinking any more foreign muck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to drink something," said Magrat soothingly. "I'm thirsty, anyway." She looked vaguely at the crowded bar. "Perhaps they do some kind of fruit cup, or something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bound to," said Nanny Ogg. She stood up, glanced at the bar, and surreptitiously removed a hatpin from her hat. "Shan't be a moment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two of them were left in their own private gloom. Granny sat staring fixedly in front of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You really shouldn't take it so bad, just because people aren't showing you any respect," said Magrat, pouring soothing oil on the internal fires. "They've hardly ever shown me any respect at all. It's not a problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you ain't got respect, you ain't got a thing," said Granny distantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I don't know. I've always managed to get along," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's ‘cos you're a wet hen, Magrat Garlick," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a short, hot silence, ringing with the words that shouldn't have escaped and a few grunts of pained surprise from the direction of the bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I know she's always thought that, Magrat told herself within the glowing walls of her embarrassment. I just never thought she'd ever say it. And she'll never say sorry, because that's not the kind of thing she does. She just expects people to forget things like that. I was just trying to be friends again. If she ever really has any friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here we are then," said Nanny Ogg, emerging from the crush with a tray. "Fruit drinks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down and looked from one to the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Made from bananas," she said, in the hope of striking a spark of interest from either woman. "I remember our Shane brought a banana home once. My, we had a good laugh about that. I said to the man, "What kind of fruit drinks do people drink around here?" and this is what he gave me. Made from bananas. A banana drink. You'll like it. It's what everyone drinks here. It's got bananas in it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's certainly very... strongly flavoured," said Magrat, sipping hers cautiously. "Has it got sugar in it too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very likely," said Nanny. She looked at Granny's middle-distance frown for a moment, and then picked up her pencil and licked the end professionally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anywey one good thing is the drink here is v. cheap theres this one called a Bananana dakry which is basicly Rum with a banananana in it. I can feel it doin me good. It is v. damp here. I hope we find somewhere to stay tonigt I expect we shal becaus Esme alweys falls on her feet or at any rate on someones feet. I have drawern a picture of a banananana dakry you can see it is empty right down to the bottom. Love, MUM XXXX</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the end they found a stable. It was, as Nanny Ogg cheerfully commented, probably warmer and more hygienic than any of the inns and there were millions of people in foreign parts who'd give their right arms for such a comfy, dry place to sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This cut about as much ice as a soap hacksaw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It doesn't take much to make witches fall out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat lay awake, using her sack of clothes as a pillow and listening to the warm soft rain on the roof.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's all gone wrong before we've even started, she thought. I don't know why I let them come with me. I'm perfectly capable of doing something by myself for once, but they always treat me as if I was a... a wet hen. I don't see why I should have to put up with her sulking and snapping at me the whole time. What's so special about her, anyway? She hardly ever does anything really magical, whatever Nanny says. She really does just shout a lot and bully people. And as for Nanny, she means well but she has no sense of responsibility, I thought I'd die when she started singing the Hedgehog Song in the inn, I just hope to goodness the people didn't know what the words meant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm the fairy godmother around here. We're not at home now. There's got to be different ways of doing things, in foreign parts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She got up at first light. The other two were asleep, although ‘asleep' was too moderate a word for the sounds Granny Weatherwax was making.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat put on her best dress, the green silk one that was unfortunately now a mass of creases. She took out a bundle of tissue paper and slowly unwrapped her occult jewellery; Magrat bought occult jewellery as a sort of distraction from being Magrat. She had three large boxes of the stuff and was still exactly the same person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did her best to remove the straw from her hair. Then she unpacked the magic wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wished she had a mirror to inspect herself in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got the wand," she said quietly. "I don't see why I need any help. Desiderata said I was to tell them not to help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It crossed her mind to reflect that Desiderata had been very lax on that point. The one thing you could be sure of, if you told Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg not to help, was that they would rush to help if only out of spite. It was quite surprising to Magrat that anyone as clever as Desiderata should have slipped up on that minor point. She'd probably got a psycholology too - whatever that was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Moving quietly, so as not to wake the other two, she opened the door and stepped lightly into the damp air. Wand at the ready, she was prepared to give the world whatever it wished for.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would help if this included pumpkins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg opened one eye as the door creaked shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat up and yawned and scratched herself. She fumbled in her hat and retrieved her pipe. She nudged Granny Weatherwax in the ribs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't asleep," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat's gone off somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I'm going out to get something to eat," muttered Nanny. There was no talking to Esme when she was in that kind of mood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she stepped out Greebo dropped lightly off a beam and landed on her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg, one of life's great optimists, stepped out to take whatever the future had to offer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Preferably with rum and bananas in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The house wasn't hard to find. Desiderata had made very exact notes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat's gaze took in the high white walls and ornate metal balconies. She tried to straighten a few wrinkles in her dress, tugged some recalcitrant bits of hay from her hair, and then marched up the driveway and knocked on the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The knocker broke off in her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Looking around anxiously lest someone should have noted this vandalism, Magrat tried to wedge it back. It fell off, knocking a lump out of the marble step.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally she knocked gently with her knuckle. A fine cloud of paint dust lifted off the door and floated down to the ground. That was the only effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat considered her next move. She was pretty sure that fairy godmothers weren't supposed to leave a little card pushed under the door saying something like "Called today but you were out, please contact the depot for a further appointment." Anyway, this wasn't the kind of house that got left empty; there would be a score of servants infesting a place like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She crunched over the gravel and peered around the side of the house. Maybe the back door... witches were generally more at home around back doors...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg always was. She was heading for the one belonging to the palace. It was easy enough to get into; this wasn't a castle like the ones back home, which expressed very clear ideas about inside and outside and were built to keep the two separate. This was, well, a fairytale castle, all icing-sugar battlements and tiny, towering turrets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, no-one took much notice of little old ladies. Little old ladies were by definition harmless, although in a string of villages across several thousand miles of continent this definition was currently being updated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Castles, in Nanny Ogg's experience, were like swans. They looked as if they were drifting regally through the waters of Time, but in fact there was a hell of a lot of activity going on underneath. There'd be a maze of pantries and kitchens and laundries and stables and breweries - she liked the idea of breweries - and people never noticed another old biddy around the place, eating any spare grub that was lying around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, you got gossip. Nanny Ogg liked gossip, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax wandered disconsolately along the clean streets. She wasn't looking for the other two. She was quite certain of that. Of course, she might just happen to bump into them, sort of accidentally, and give them a meaningful look. But she certainly wasn't looking for them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crowd at the end of the street. Working on the reasonable assumption that Nanny Ogg might be in the middle of it, Granny Weatherwax drifted over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny wasn't there. But there was a raised platform. And a small man in chains. And some bright-uniformed guards. One of them was holding an axe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You did not have to be a great world traveller to understand that the purpose of this tableau was not to give the chained man a signed testimonial and a collection from everyone at the office.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nudged a bystander.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked sideways at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The guards caught him thieving," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Well, he looks guilty enough," said Granny. People in chains had a tendency to look guilty. "So what're they going to do to him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Teach him a lesson."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How d'they do that, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See the axe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's eyes hadn't left it the whole time. But now she let her attention rove over the crowd, picking up scraps of thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An ant has an easy mind to read. There's just one stream of big simple thoughts: Carry, Carry, Bite, Get Into The Sandwiches, Carry, Eat. Something like a dog is more complicated - a dog can be thinking several thoughts at the same time. But a human mind is a great sullen lightning-filled cloud of thoughts, all of them occupying a finite amount of brain processing time. Finding whatever the owner thinks they're thinking in the middle of the smog of prejudices, memories, worries, hopes and fears is almost impossible.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But enough people thinking much the same thing can be heard, and Granny Weatherwax was aware of the fear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looks like it'll be a lesson he won't forget in a hurry," she murmured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon he'll forget it quite quickly," said the watcher, and then shuffled away from Granny, in the same way that people move away from lightning rods during a thunderstorm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And at this point Granny picked up the discordant note in the orchestra of thought. In the middle of it were two minds that were not human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their shape was as simple, clean and purposeful as a naked blade. She'd felt minds like that before, and had never cherished the experience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scanned the crowd and found the minds' owners. They were staring unblinkingly at the figures on the platform.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The watchers were women, or at least currently the same shape as women; taller than she was, slender as sticks, and wearing broad hats with veils that covered their faces. Their dresses shimmered in the sunlight - possibly blue, possibly yellow, possibly green. Possibly patterned. It was impossible to tell. The merest movement changed the colours.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She couldn't make out their faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were witches in Genua all right. One witch, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sound from the platform made her turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she knew why people in Genua were quiet and nice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were countries in foreign parts, Granny had heard, where they chopped off the hands of thieves so that they wouldn't steal again. And she'd never been happy with that idea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't do that in Genua. They cut their heads off so they wouldn't think of stealing again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny knew exactly where the witches were in Genua now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were in charge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat reached the house's back door. It was ajar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled herself together again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knocked, in a polite, diffident sort of way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er - " she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bowlful of dirty water hit her full in the face. Through the tidal roaring of a pair of ears full of suds, she heard a voice say, "Gosh, I'm sorry. I didn't know anyone was standing there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat wiped the water out of her eyes, and tried to focus on the dim figure in front of her. A kind of narrative certainty rose in her mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is your name Ella?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right. Who're you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked her new-found god-daughter up and down. She was the most attractive young woman Magrat had ever seen - skin as brown as a nut, hair so blonde as to be almost white, a combination not totally unusual in such an easygoing city as Genua had once been.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What were you supposed to say at a time like this?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She removed a piece of potato peel from her nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm your fairy godmother," she said. "Funny thing, it sounds silly now I come to tell someone - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella peered at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um. Yes. I've got the wand, and everything." Magrat waggled the wand, in case this helped. It didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella put her head on one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you people were supposed to appear in a shower of glittering little lights and a twinkly noise," she said suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, you just get the wand," said Magrat desperately. "You don't get a whole book of instructions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella gave her another searching look. Then she said, "I suppose you'd better come in, then. You're just in time. I was making a cup of tea, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The iridescent women got into an open-topped carriage. Beautiful as they were, Granny noted, they walked awkwardly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, they would. They wouldn't be used to legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She also noticed the way people didn't look at the carriage. It wasn't that they didn't see it. It was simply that they wouldn't let their gaze dwell on it, as if merely recognizing it would lead them into trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she noticed the coach horses. They had better senses than the humans did. They knew what was behind them, and they didn't like it at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She followed them as they trotted, flat-eared and wild-eyed, through the streets. Eventually they were driven into the driveway of a big and dilapidated house near the palace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny lurked by the wall and noted the details. Plaster was dropping off the house walls, and even the knocker had fallen off the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax did not believe in atmospheres.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She did not believe in psychic auras. Being a witch, she'd always thought, depended more on what you didn't believe. But she was prepared to believe that there was something very unpleasant in that house. Not evil. The two not-exactly-women weren't evil, in the same way that a dagger or a sheer cliff isn't evil. Being evil means being able to make choices. But the hand wielding a dagger or pushing a body over a cliff could be evil, and something like that was going on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She really wished that she didn't know who was behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People like Nanny Ogg turn up everywhere. It's as if there's some special morphic generator dedicated to the production of old women who like a laugh and aren't averse to the odd pint, especially of some drink normally sold in very small glasses. You find them all over the place, often in pairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They tend to attract one another. Possibly they broadcast inaudible signals indicating that here is someone who could be persuaded to go ‘Ooo' at pictures of other people's grandchildren.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg had found a friend. Her name was Mrs Pleasant, she was a cook, and she was the first black person Nanny had ever spoken to. She was also a cook of that very superior type who spends most of the time holding court in a chair in the centre of the kitchen, apparently taking very little heed of the activity going on around her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Occasionally she'd give an order. And they'd only need to be occasionally, because she'd seen to it over the years that people either did things her way or not at all. Once or twice, with some ceremony, she'd get up, taste something, and maybe add a pinch of salt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Such people are always ready to chat to any wandering pedlars, herbalists, or little old women with cats on their shoulders. Greebo rode on Nanny's shoulder as though he'd just eaten the parrot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You be a-comin' here for Fat Lunchtime, then?" said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Helping a friend with a bit of business," said Nanny. "My, these biscuits are tasty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I means, I see by your eye," said Mrs Pleasant, pushing the plate nearer to her, "that you are of a magical persuasion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you sees a lot further than most people in these parts," said Nanny. "Y'know, what'd improve these biscuits no end'd be something to dip ‘em in, what d'you think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How "bout something with bananas in it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bananas would be just the thing," said Nanny happily. Mrs Pleasant waved imperiously at one of the maids, who set to work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sat on her chair, swinging her stumpy legs and looking around the kitchen with interest. A score of cooks were working with the single-mindedness of an artillery platoon laying down a barrage. Huge cakes were being constructed. In the fireplaces whole carcasses of animals were being roasted; turnspit dogs galloped in their treadmills. A huge man with a bald head and a scar right across his face was patiently inserting little sticks into sausages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny hadn't had any breakfast. Greebo had had some breakfast, but this didn't make any difference. They were both undergoing a sort of exquisite culinary torture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both turned, as if hypnotized, to watch two maids stagger by under a tray of canapes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can see you is a very observant woman, Mrs Ogg," said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just a slice," said Nanny, without thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I also determines," Mrs Pleasant said, after a while, "that you have a cat of no usual breed upon your shoulder there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knows I'm right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A brimming glass of yellow foam was slid in front of Nanny. She looked at it reflectively and tried to get back to the matter in hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So," she said, "where would I go, do you think, to find out about how you do magic in - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you like somethin' to eat?" said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? My word!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant rolled her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not this stuff. I wouldn't eat this stuff," she said bitterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's face fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you cook it," she pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only ‘cos I'm told to. The old Baron knew what good food was. This stuff? It's nothing but pork and beef and lamb and rubbish for them that never tasted anything better. The only thing on four legs that's worth eating is alligator. I mean real food."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant looked around at the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sara!" she shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the sub-cooks turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, "m?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me and this lady is just going out. Just you see to everything, okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, "m."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant stood up and nodded meaningfully at Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Walls have ears," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo! Do they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We goin' to go for a little stroll."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were, it now seemed to Nanny Ogg, two cities in Genua. There was the white one, all new houses and blue-roofed palaces, and around it and even under it was the old one. The new one might not like the presence of the old one, but it couldn't quite ever do without it. Someone, somewhere, has to do the cooking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg quite liked cooking, provided there were other people around to do things like chop up the vegetables and wash the dishes afterwards. She'd always reckoned that she could do things to a bit of beef that the bullock had never thought of. But now she realized that wasn't cooking. Not compared to cooking in Genua. It was just staying alive as pleasantly as possible. Cooking anywhere outside Genua was just heating up things like bits of animals and birds and fish and vegetables until they went brown.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And yet the weird thing was that the cooks in Genua had nothing edible to cook; at least, not what Nanny would have thought of as food. To her mind, food went around on four legs, or possibly one pair of legs and one pair of wings. Or at least it had fins on. The idea of food with more than four legs was an entirely new kettle of fi-of miscellaneous swimming things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't have much to cook in Genua. So they cooked everything. Nanny had never heard of prawns or crawfish or lobsters; it just looked to her as though the citizens of Genua dredged the river bottom and boiled whatever came up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The point was that a good Genuan cook could more or less take the squeezings of a handful of mud, a few dead leaves and a pinch or two of some unpronounceable herbs and produce a meal to make a gourmet burst into tears of gratitude and swear to be a better person for the rest of their entire life if they could just have one more plateful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg ambled along as Mrs Pleasant led her through the market. She peered at cages of snakes, and racks of mysteriously tendrilled herbs. She prodded trays of bivalves. She stopped for a chat to the Nanny Ogg-shaped ladies who ran the little stalls that, for a couple of pennies, dispensed strange chowders and shellfish in a bun. She sampled everything. She was enjoying herself immensely. Genua, city of cooks, had found the appetite it deserved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She finished a plate of fish and exchanged a nod and a grin with the little old woman who ran the fish stall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, all this is - " she began, turning to Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant had gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Some people would have bustled off to look for her in the crowds, but Nanny Ogg just stood and thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I asked about magic, she thought, and she brought me here and left me. Because of them walls with ears in, I expect. So maybe I got to do the rest myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around her. There was a very rough tent a little way from the stalls, right by the river. There was no sign outside it, but there was a pot bubbling gently over a fire. Rough clay bowls were stacked beside the pot. Occasionally someone would step out of the crowd, help themselves to a bowlful of whatever was in the pot, and then throw a handful of coins into the plate in front of the tent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny wandered over and looked into the pot. Things came to the surface and sank again. The general colour was brown. Bubbles formed, grew, and burst stickily with an organic ‘blop'. Anything could be happening in that pot. Life could be spontaneously creating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg would try anything once. Some things she'd try several thousand times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She unhooked the ladle, picked up a bowl, and helped herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment later she pushed aside the tent flap and looked into the blackness of the interior.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure was seated cross-legged in the gloom, smoking a pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mind if I step inside?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sat down. After a decent interval she pulled out her own pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Pleasant's a friend of yours, I expect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She knows me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From outside, there was the occasional clink as customers helped themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blue smoke coiled from Nanny Ogg's pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't reckon," she said, "that many people goes away without paying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After another pause Nanny Ogg said: "I ‘spects some of ‘em tries to pay with gold and jewels and scented ungulants and stuff like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amazin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sat in silence for a while, listening to the distant noises of the market and summoning her powers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's it called?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gumbo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon anyone who could cook like that could do anything" - Nanny Ogg concentrated - "Mrs... Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pretty near, Mrs Ogg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two women stared at one another's shadowy outline, like plotters who had given the sign and countersign and were waiting to see what would happen next.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where I come from, we call it witchcraft," said Nanny, under her breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where I come from, we call it voodoo," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's wrinkled forehead wrinkled still further.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ain't that all messin' with dolls and dead people and stuff?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ain't witchcraft all runnin' around with no clothes on and stickin' pins in people?" said Mrs Gogol levelly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," said Nanny. "I sees what you mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shifted uneasily. She was a fundamentally honest woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got to admit, though..." she added, "sometimes... maybe just one pin..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol nodded gravely. "Okay. Sometimes... maybe just one zombie," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But only when there ain't no alternative."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure. When there ain't no alternative."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When... you know... people ain't showing respect, like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When the house needs paintin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny grinned, toothily. Airs Gogol grinned, outnumbering her in teeth by a factor of thirty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My full name's Gytha Ogg," she said. "People calls me Nanny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My full name's Erzulie Gogol," said Mrs Gogol. "People call me Mrs Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The way I saw it," said Nanny, "this is foreign parts, so maybe there's a different kind of magic. Stands to reason. The trees is different, the people is different, the drinks is different and has got banana in ‘em, so the magic'd be different too. Then I thought... Gytha, my girl, you're never too old to learn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's something wrong with this city. Felt it as soon as we set foot here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound for a while but the occasional puffing of a pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was a clink from outside, followed by a thoughtful pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice said, "Gytha Ogg? I know you're in there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The outline of Mrs Gogol took its pipe out of its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's good," she said. "Good sense of taste there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tent flap opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo, Esme," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blessings be on this... tent," said Granny Weather-wax, peering into the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This here's Mrs Gogol," said Nanny. "She's by way of bein' a voodoo lady. That's what witches are in these parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They ain't the only witches in these parts," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Gogol was very impressed at you detecting me in here," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It wasn't hard," said Granny. "Once I'd spotted that Greebo washing himself outside, the rest was all deduction."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the gloom of the tent Nanny had formed a mental picture of Mrs Gogol as being old. What she hadn't expected, when the voodoo lady stepped out into the open air, was a handsome middle-aged woman taller than Granny. Mrs Gogol wore heavy gold earrings, a white blouse and a full red skirt with flounces. Nanny could feel Granny Weatherwax's disapproval. What they said about women with red skirts was even worse than whatever they said about women with red shoes, whatever that was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol stopped and raised an arm. There was a flurry of wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo, who had been rubbing obsequiously against Nanny's leg, looked up and hissed. The largest and blackest cockerel Nanny had ever seen had settled on Mrs Gogol's shoulder. It turned on her the most intelligent stare she had ever seen on a bird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My word," she said, taken aback. "That's the biggest cock I've ever seen, and I've seen a few in my time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol raised one disapproving eyebrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She never had no proper upbringing," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What with living next to a chicken farm and all, is what I was going to say next," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is Legba, a dark and dangerous spirit," said Mrs Gogol. She leaned closer and spoke out of the corner of her mouth. "Between you and me, he just a big black cockerel. But you know how it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It pays to advertise," Nanny agreed. "This is Greebo. Between you and me, he's a fiend from hell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, he's a cat," said Mrs Gogol, generously. "It's only to be expected."</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason and everyone,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Isn't it amazing the things what happen when you dont expect it, for example we met Mrs Gogol who works as a coke by day but is a Voodoo witch, you mustnt bekive all the stuff about black magic, exetra, this is a Blind, shes just like us only different. Its true about the zombies though but its not what you think...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Genua was a strange city, Nanny decided. You got off the main streets, walked along a side road, went through a little gate and suddenly there were trees everywhere, with moss and them llamas hanging from them, and the ground began to wobble underfoot and become swamp. On either side of the track there were dark pools in which, here and there, among the lilies, were the kind of logs the witches had never seen before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Them's bloody big newts," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're alligators."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By gods. They must get good grub."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol's house itself looked a simple affair of driftwood from the river, roofed with moss and built out over the swamp itself on four stout poles. It was close enough to the centre of the city that Nanny could hear street cries and the clip-clop of hooves, but the shack in its little swamp was wreathed in silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't people bother you here?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not them as I don't want to meet." The lily pads moved. A v-shaped ripple drifted across the nearest pool.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Self-reliance," said Granny approvingly. "That's always very important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny regarded the reptiles with a calculating stare. They tried to match it, and gave up when their eyes started watering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon I could just do with a couple of them at home," she said thoughtfully, as they slid away again. "Our Jason could dig another pond, no problem. What was it you said they et?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anything they want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knows a joke about alligators," said Granny, in the tones of one announcing a great and solemn truth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never!" said Nanny Ogg. "I never heard you tell a joke in your whole life!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just because I don't tell ‘em don't mean I don't know ‘em," said Granny haughtily. "It's about this man - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What man?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This man went into an inn. Yes. It was an inn. And he saw a sign. The sign said "We serve every kind of sandwich." So he said "Get me an alligator sandwich -and make it quick!" ‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg turned to Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So... you live alone here, then?" she said brightly. "Not a living soul around?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In a manner of speakin'," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, the point is, alligators are - " Granny began, in a loud voice, and then stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shack's door had opened.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This was another big kitchen. Once upon a time it had provided employment for half a dozen cooks. Now it was a cave, its far corners shadowy, its hanging saucepans and tureens dulled by dust. The big tables had been pushed to one side and stacked almost ceiling high with ancient crockery; the stoves, which looked big enough to take whole cows and cook for an army, stood cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the middle of the grey desolation someone had set up a small table by the fireplace. It was on a square of bright carpet. A jam-jar contained flowers that had been arranged by the simple method of grabbing a handful of them and ramming them in. The effect was a little area of slightly soppy brightness in the general gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella shuffled a few things around desperately and then stood looking at Magrat with a sort of defensively shy smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Silly of me, really. I expect you're used to this sort of thing," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um. Yes. Oh, yes. All the time," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was just that I expected you to be a bit... older? Apparently you were at my christening?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Yes?" said Magrat. "Well, you see, the thing is - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Still, I expect you can look like whatever you want," said Ella helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Yes. Er."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella looked slightly puzzled for a moment, as if trying to work out why - if Magrat could look like whatever she wanted - she'd chosen to look like Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, now," she said. "What do we do next?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mentioned tea," said Magrat, buying time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, sure." Ella turned to the fireplace, where a blackened kettle hung over what Granny Weatherwax always called an optimist's fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's your name?" she said over her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat," said Magrat, sitting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a... nice name," said Ella, politely. "Of course, you know mine. Mind you, I spend so much time cooking over this wretched thing now that Mrs Pleasant calls me Embers. Silly, isn't it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Emberella, thought Magrat. I'm fairy godmothering a girl who sounds like something you put up in the rain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It could use a little work," she conceded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I haven't the heart to tell her off, she thinks it sounds jolly," she said. "I think it sounds like something you put up in the rain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I wouldn't say that," said Magrat. "Uh. Who's Mrs Pleasant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's the cook at the palace. She comes around to cheer me up when they're out..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella spun around, holding the blackened kettle like a weapon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not going to that ball!" she snapped. "I'm not going to marry the prince! Do you understand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words came out like steel ingots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right! Right!" said Magrat, taken aback by their force.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He looks slimy. He makes my flesh crawl," said Embers darkly. "They say he's got funny eyes. And everyone knows what he does at night!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone bar one, Magrat thought. No-one ever tells me things like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aloud, she said: "Well, it shouldn't be too much to arrange. I mean, normally it's marrying princes that's the hard bit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not for me it isn't," said Embers. "It's all been arranged. My other godmother says I've got to do it. She says it's my destiny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Other godmother?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone gets two," said Ella. "The good one and the bad one. You know that. Which one are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat's mind raced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, the good one," she said. "Definitely."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny thing," said Ella. "That's just what the other one said, too."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax sat in her special knees-clenched, elbows-in way that put as little as possible of herself in contact with the outside world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By gor', this is good stuff," said Nanny Ogg, polishing her plate with what Granny could only hope was bread. "You ought to try a drop, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another helping, Mrs Ogg?" said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't mind if I do, Mrs Gogol." Nanny nudged Granny in the ribs. "It's really good, Esme. Just like stew."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol looked at Granny with her head on one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think perhaps Mistress Weatherwax isn't worried about the food," she said. "I think Mistress Weatherwax is worried about the service."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow loomed over Nanny Ogg. A grey hand took her plate away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax gave a little cough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got nothing against dead people," she said. "Some of my best friends are dead. It just don't seem right, though, dead people walking about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked up at the figure even now ladling a third helping of mysterious liquid on to her plate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What d'you think about it, Mr Zombie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a great life, Mrs Ogg," said the zombie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There. See, Esme? He don't mind. Better than being shut up in a stuffy coffin all day, I'll be bound."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked up at the zombie. He was - or, technically, had been - a tall, handsome man. He still was, only now he looked like someone who had walked through a room full of cobwebs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's your name, dead man?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am called Saturday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Man Saturday, eh?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Just Saturday, Mrs Ogg. Just Saturday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked into his eyes. They were more sentient than most eyes she had seen that belonged to people who were, technically, alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was vaguely aware that there were things you had to do to a dead person to turn them into a zombie, although it was a branch of magic she'd never wanted to investigate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yet you needed more than just a lot of weird fish innards and foreign roots - the person had to want to come back. They had to have some terrible dream or desire or purpose that would enable them to overcome the grave itself...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday's eyes burned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached a decision. She held out a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very pleased to meet you, Mister Saturday," she said. "And I'm sure I'd enjoy your lovely stew."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's called gumbo," said Nanny. "It's got lady's fingers in it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know well enough that lady's fingers is a kind of plant, thank you very much," said Granny. "I'm not entirely ignorant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, but make sure you get a helping with snakes' heads in it as well," said Nanny Ogg. "They're the best part."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind of plant is snakes' heads?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Best if you just eat up, I reckon," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were sitting on the warped wood veranda round the back of Mrs Gogol's shack, overlooking the swamp. Mossy beards hung from every branch. Unseen creatures buzzed in the greenery. And everywhere there were v-shaped ripples cutting gently through the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect it's really nice here when the sun's out," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday trudged into the shack and returned with a makeshift fishing pole, which he baited and cast over the rail. Then he sort of switched off; no-one has more patience than a zombie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol leaned back in her rocking-chair and lit her pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This used to be a great ole city," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened to it?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo was having a lot of trouble with Legba the cockerel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For one thing, the bird refused to be terrorized. Greebo could terrorize most things that moved upon the face of the Discworld, even creatures nominally much bigger and tougher than he was. Yet somehow none of his well-tried tactics - the yawn, the stare and above all the slow grin -seemed to work. Legba merely looked down his beak at him, and pretended to scratch at the ground in a way that brought his two-inch spurs into even greater prominence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That only left the flying leap. This worked on nearly every creature. Very few animals remained calm in the face of an enraged ball of whirring claws in the face. In the case of this bird, Greebo suspected, it might well result in his becoming a furry kebab.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But this had to be resolved. Otherwise generations of cats would laugh at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cat and bird circled through the swamp, each apparently paying the other no attention whatsoever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Things gibbered in the trees. Small iridescent birds barrelled through the air. Greebo glared up at them. He would sort them out later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the cockerel had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's ears flattened against his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was still the birdsong and the whine of insects, but they were elsewhere. Here there was silence - hot, dark and oppressive - and trees that were somehow much closer together than he remembered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was in a clearing. Around its sides, hanging from bushes or tied to trees, were things. Bits of ribbon. White bones. Tin pots. Perfectly ordinary things, anywhere else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And in the centre of the clearing, something like a scarecrow. An upright pole with a crosspiece, on which someone had put an old black coat. Above the coat, on the tip of the pole, was a top hat. On top of the hat, watching him thoughtfully, was Legba.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A breeze blew through the stifling air, causing the coat to flap gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo remembered a day when he'd chased a rat into the village windmill and had suddenly found that what had seemed merely a room with odd furniture in it was a great big machine which would, if he put a paw wrong, crush him utterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air sizzled gently. He could feel his fur standing on end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo turned and stalked away haughtily, until he judged himself out of sight, whereupon his legs spun so fast that his paws skidded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he went and grinned at some alligators, but his heart wasn't in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the clearing, the coat moved gently again and then was still. Somehow, that was worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Legba watched. The air grew heavier, just as it does before a storm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This used to be a great old city. A happy place. No-one tried to make it happy. It just happened, all by itself," said Airs Gogol. "That was when the old Baron was alive. But he was murdered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who done it?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone knows it was the Duc," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches looked at one another. Royal intrigues were obviously a bit different in foreign parts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pecked to death, was he?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A foul deed?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Duc is a title, not a bird," said Mrs Gogol patiently. "The Baron was poisoned. It was a terrible night. And, in the morning, the Duc was in the palace. Then there was the matter of the will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me," said Granny. "I bet there was a will leaving everything to this Duc. I bet the ink was still wet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you know that?" said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stands to reason," said Granny loftily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Baron had a young daughter," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'd be still alive, I reckon," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You surely know a lot of things, lady," said Airs Gogol. "Why'd you think that, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well..." said Granny. She was about to say: because I know how the stories work. But Nanny Ogg interrupted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If this Baron was as great as you say, he must have had a lot of friends in the city, right?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is so. The people liked him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, if I was a Duc with no more claim on things than a smudgy will and a little bottle of ink with the cork still out, I'd be lookin' for any chance to make things a bit more official," said Nanny. "Marryin' the real heir'd be favourite. He could thumb his nose at everyone, then. I bet she don't know who she really is, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," said Mrs Gogol. "The Duc's got friends, too. Or keepers, maybe. Not people you'd want to cross. They've brought her up, and they don't let her out much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches sat in silence for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny thought: no. That's not quite right. That's how it'd appear in a history book. But that's not the story.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Granny said," ‘Scuse me, Mrs Gogol, but where do you come in all this? No offence, but I reckon that out here in the swamp it'd be all the same whoever was doing the rulin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For the first time since they'd met her, Mrs Gogol looked momentarily uneasy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Baron was... a friend of mine," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah," said Granny understandingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He wasn't keen on zombies, mark you. He said he thought the dead should be allowed their rest. But he never insisted. Whereas this new one..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not keen on the Interestin' Arts?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I reckon he is," said Granny. "He'd have to be. Not your magic, maybe, but I bet he's got a lot of magic around him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why d'you say that, lady?" said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," said Nanny, "I can see that you, being a lady o' spirit, wouldn't put up with this if you didn't have to. There's lots of ways to sort matters out, I ‘spect. I ‘spect, if you dint like someone, their legs might unexpectedly drop off, or they might find mysterious snakes in their boots..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Alleygators under their bed," suggested Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. He's got protection," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Powerful magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More powerful'n you?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a long and difficult pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For now," Mrs Gogol added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another pause. No witch ever liked admitting to less than near-absolute power, or even hearing another witch doing so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're biding your time, I expect," said Granny kindly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wifing your strength," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's powerful protection," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sat back in her chair. When she spoke next, it was as a person who has certain ideas in their mind and wants to find out what someone else knows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What sort?" she said. "Exactly?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol reached into the cushions of her rocking-chair and, after some rummaging, produced a leather bag and a pipe. She lit the pipe and puffed a cloud of bluish smoke into the morning air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You look in mirrors a lot these days, Mistress Weatherwax?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's chair tipped backwards, almost throwing her off the veranda and into the inky waters. Her hat flew away into the lily pads.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had time to see it settle gently on the water. It floated for a moment and then -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- was eaten. A very large alligator snapped its jaws shut and gazed smugly at Granny.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a relief to have something to shout about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My hat! It ate my hat! One of your alleygators ate my hatl It was my hat! Make it give it back!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She snatched a length of creeper off the nearest tree and flailed at the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You shouldn't do that, Esme! You shouldn't do that!" she quavered. The alligator backed water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can hit cheeky lizards if I want!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, you can, you can," said Nanny soothingly, "but not... with a... snake..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny held up the creeper for inspection. A medium-sized Three-Banded Coit gave her a frightened look, considered biting her nose for a moment, thought better of it, and then shut its mouth very tightly in the hope she'd get the message. She opened her hand. The snake dropped to the boards and slithered away quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol hadn't stirred in her chair. Now she half turned. Saturday was still patiently watching his fishing line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saturday, go and fetch the lady's hat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, m'm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even Granny hesitated at that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't make him do that!" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he's dead," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but it's bad enough being dead without bein' in bits too," said Granny. "Don't you go in there, Mr Saturday!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it was your hat, lady," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but..." said Granny, "... a... hat was all it was. I wouldn't send anyone into any alligators for any hat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked horrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No-one knew better than Granny Weatherwax that hats were important. They weren't just clothing. Hats defined the head. They defined who you were. No-one had ever heard of a wizard without a pointy hat - at least, no wizard worth speaking of. And you certainly never heard of a witch without one. Even Magrat had one, although she hardly ever wore it on account of being a wet hen. That didn't matter too much; it wasn't the wearing of the hats that counted so much as having one to wear. Every trade, every craft had its hat. That's why kings had hats. Take the crown off a king and all you had was someone good at having a weak chin and waving to people. Hats had power. Hats were important. But so were people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol took another puff at her pipe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saturday, go and get my best hat for holidays," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Mrs Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday disappeared into the hut for a moment, and came out with a large and battered box securely wrapped with twine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't take that," said Granny. "I can't take your best hat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes you can," said Mrs Gogol. "I've got another hat. Oh, yes. I've got another hat all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny put the box down carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It occurs to me, Mrs Gogol," she said, "that you ain't everything you seem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh yes I is, Mistress Weatherwax. I never bin nothing else, just like you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You brought us here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. You brought yourselves here. Of your own free will. To help someone, ain't that right? You decided to do it, ain't that right? No-one forced you, ain't that right? ‘Cept yourselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's right about all that," said Nanny. "We'd have felt it, if it was magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," said Granny. "No-one forced us, except ourselves. What's your game, Mrs Gogol?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't playing no game, Mistress Weatherwax. I just want back what's mine. I want justice. And I wants her stopped."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her who?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's face had frozen into a mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her who's behind all this," said Mrs Gogol. "The Duc hasn't got the brains of a prawn, Mrs Ogg. I mean her. Her with her mirror magic. Her who likes to control. Her who's in charge. Her who's tinkering with destiny. Her that Mistress Weatherwax knows all about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's she talking about, Esme?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny muttered something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Didn't hear you," Nanny said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked up, her face red with anger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She means my sister, Gytha! Right? Got that? Do you understand? Did you hear? My sister! Want me to repeat it again? Want to know who she's talking about? You want me to write it down? My sister! That's who! My sister!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're sisters?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her tea had gone cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," said Ella. "They look... alike. They keep themselves to themselves most of the time. But I can feel them watching. They're very good at watching."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they make you do all the work?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I only have to cook for myself and the outside staff," said Ella. "And I don't mind the cleaning and the laundry all that much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do they do their own cooking, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so. They walk around the house at night, after I've gone to bed. Godmother Lilith says I must be kind to them and pity them because they can't talk, and always see that we've got plenty of cheese in the larder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They eat nothing but cheese?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so," said Ella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should think the rats and mice get it, then, in an old place like this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know, it's a funny thing," said Ella, "but I've never seen a mouse anywhere in this house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat shivered. She felt watched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't you just walk away? I would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where to? Anyway, they always find me. Or they send the coachmen and grooms after me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's horrible!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure they think that sooner or later I'll marry anyone to get away from laundry," said Ella. "Not that the Prince's clothes get washed, I expect," she added bitterly. "I expect they get burned after he's worn them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What you want to do is make a career of your own," said Magrat encouragingly, to keep her spirits up. "You want to be your own woman. You want to emancipate yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think I want to do that," said Ella, speaking with caution in case it was a sin to offend a fairy godmother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do really," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to marry anyone you don't want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How good are you?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... well... I suppose I - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The dress arrived yesterday," said Ella. "It's up in the big front room, on a stand so it doesn't get creased. So that it stays perfect. And they've polished up the coach specially. They've hired extra footmen, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but perhaps - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I'm going to have to marry someone I don't want to," said Ella.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax strode up and down the driftwood balcony. The whole shack trembled to her stamping. Ripples spread out as it bounced on the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course you don't remember her!" she shouted. "Our mam kicked her out when she was thirteen! We was both tiny then! But I remember the rows! I used to hear them when I was in bed! She was wanton!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You always used to say I was wanton, when we was younger," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hesitated, caught momentarily off balance. Then she waved a hand irritably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You was, of course," she said dismissively. "But you never used magic for it, did you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Din't have to," said Nanny happily. "An off-the* shoulder dress did the trick most of the time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right off the shoulder and on to the grass, as I recall," said Granny. "No, she used magic. Not just ordinary magic, neither. Oh, she was willful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was about to say: What? You mean not compliant and self-effacing like what you is, Esme? But she stopped herself. You didn't juggle matches in a fireworks factory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Young men's fathers used to come round to complain," said Granny darkly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They never came round to complain about me," said Nanny happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And always looking at herself in mirrors," said Granny. "Prideful as a cat, she was. Prefer to look in a mirror than out of a window, she would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's her name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lily."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's a nice name," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It isn't what she calls herself now," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet it isn't!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she's, like, in charge of the city?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She was bossy, too!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What'd she want to be in charge of a city for?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's got plans," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And vain? Really vain!" said Granny, apparently to the world in general.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you know she was here?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had a feelin'! Mirrors!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mirror magic isn't bad," protested Nanny. "I've done all kinds of stuff with mirrors. You can have a lot of fun with a mirror."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She doesn't just use one mirror," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She uses two."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. That's different."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stared at the surface of the water. Her own face stared back at her from the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hoped it was her own face, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've felt her watchin' us, the whole way here," she said. "That's where she's happiest, inside mirrors. Inside mirrors, making people into stories."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She prodded the image with a stick. "She even got a look at me in Desiderata's house, just before Magrat came in. It ain't nice, seeing someone else in your reflection - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She paused. "Where is Magrat, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Out fairy godmothering, I think," said Nanny. "She said she didn't need any help."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was annoyed. She was also frightened, which made her even more annoyed. It was hard for people when Magrat was annoyed. It was like being attacked by damp tissue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have my personal word on it," she said. "You don't have to go to the ball if you don't want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't be able to stop them," said Ella darkly. "I know how things work in this city."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I said you won't have to go!" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked thoughtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There isn't someone else you'd rather marry, is there?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I don't know many people. I don't get much chance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," said Magrat. "That makes it easier. I suggest we get you out of here and - and take you somewhere else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There isn't anywhere else. I told you. There's just swamp. I tried once or twice, and they sent the coachmen after me. They weren't unkind. The coachmen, I mean. They're just afraid. Everyone's afraid. Even the Sisters are afraid, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked around at the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What of?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say that people disappear. If they upset the Duc. Something happens to them. Everyone's very polite in Genua," said Ella sourly. "And no-one steals and no-one raises their voice and everyone stays indoors at night, except when it's Fat Tuesday." She sighed. "Now that's something I'd like to go to. To the carnival. They always make me stay in, though. But I hear it passing through the city and I think: that's what Genua ought to be. Not a few people dancing in palaces, but everyone dancing in the streets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat shook herself. She felt a long way from home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think perhaps I might need a bit of help with this one," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got a wand," said Ella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think there's times when you need more than a wand," said Magrat. She stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I'll tell you this," she said. "I don't like this house. I don't like this city. Emberella?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You won't go to the ball. I'll make sure of that - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you," murmured Ella, looking down. "You can't even hear them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the sisters was at the top of the steps leading into the kitchen. Her gaze was fixed immovably on Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They say that everyone has the attributes of some kind of animal. Magrat possibly had a direct mental link to some small furry creature. She felt the terror of all small rodents in the face of unblinking death. Modulated over the menace of the gaze were all sorts of messages: the uselessness of flight, the stupidity of resistance, the inevitability of oblivion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew she could do nothing. Her legs weren't under her control. It was as if commands were coming straight down that stare and into her spinal cord. The sense of helplessness was almost peaceful...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blessings be upon this house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sister spun around much faster than any human should be able to move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax pushed open the door. "Oh deary me," she thundered, "and lawks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Nanny Ogg, crowding through the doorway behind her. "Lawks too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're just a couple of old beggar women," said Granny, striding across the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Begging from house to house," said Nanny Ogg. "Not coming directly here by any manner o' means."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They each caught one of Magrat's elbows and lifted her off her feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about you, Miss?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella shook her head without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she said, "I mustn't come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's eyes narrowed. "I suppose not," she said. "We all have our path to walk, or so it is said, although not by me. Come, Gytha."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're just off," said Nanny Ogg, brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another sister appeared in the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ye gods," said Nanny Ogg. "I never saw her move!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We was just going out," said Granny Weatherwax loudly. "If it's all the same with you, m'lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She met the stare head-on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air tingled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Granny Weatherwax said, between gritted teeth, "When I say run, Gytha - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hear you," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny groped behind her and found the teapot Magrat had just used. She weighed it in her hands, keeping the movements slow and gentle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ready, Gytha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Waitin', Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Run!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hurled the teapot high into the air. The heads of both sisters snapped around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg helped the stumbling Magrat out of the door. Granny slammed it shut as the nearer sister darted forward, mouth open, too late.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're leaving the girl in there!" shouted Nanny, as they ran down the drive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're guarding her," said Granny. "They're not going to harm her!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't seen teeth like those on anyone before!" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's ‘cos they ain't anyone! They're snakes!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They reached the comparative security of the roadway and leaned against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Snakes?" Nanny wheezed. Magrat opened her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Lily's doing," said Granny. "She was good at that kind of thing, I remember."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really snakes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Granny darkly. "She made friends easily."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blimey! I couldn't do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She didn't used to be able to either, for more'n a few seconds. That's what using mirrors does for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I - I –" Magrat stuttered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're all right," said Nanny. She looked up at Esme Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We shouldn't leave the girl, whatever you say. In a house with snakes walking around thinking they're human," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's worse than that. They're walking around thinking they're snakes," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, whatever. You never do that sort of thing. The worst you ever did was make people a bit confused about what they was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's because I'm the good one," said Granny bitterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat shuddered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So are we going to get her out?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet. There's going to be a proper time," said Granny. "Can you hear me, Magrat Garlick?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got to go somewhere and talk," said Granny. "About stories."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about stories?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lily is using them," said Granny. "Don't you see that? You can feel it in this whole country. The stories collect round here because here's where they find a way out. She feeds ‘em. Look, she don't want your Ella to marry that Duc man just because of politics or something. That's just an... explanation. "S not a reason. She wants the girl to marry the prince because that's what the story demands."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's in it for her?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the middle of ‘em all, the fairy godmother or the wicked witch... you remember? That's where Lily is putting herself, like... like..." she paused, trying to find the right word. "Remember that time last year when the circus thing came to Lancre?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I remember," said Nanny. "Them girls in the spangly tights and the fellows pourin' whitewash down their trousers. Never saw a elephant, though. They said there'd be elephants and there wasn't any. It had elephants on the posters. I spent a whole tuppence and there wasn't a single ele - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but what I'm sayin'," said Granny, as they hurried along the street, "is there was that man in the middle, you remember. With the moustache and the big hat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Him? But he didn't do anything much," said Nanny. "He just stood in the middle of the tent and sometimes he cracked his whip and all the acts just went on round him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's why he was the most important one there," said Granny. "It was the things going on around him that made him important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's Lily feeding the stories?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"People," said Granny. She frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stories!" she said. "Well, we'll have to see about that..."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Green twilight covered Genua. The mists curled up from the swamp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Torches flared in the streets. In dozens of yards shadowy figures moved, pulling the covers off floats. In the darkness there was a flash of sequins and a jingle of bells.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All year the people of Genua were nice and quiet. But history has always allowed the downtrodden one night somewhere in any calendar to restore temporarily the balance of the world. It might be called the Feast of Fools, or the King of the Bean. Or even Samedi Nuit Mort, when even those with the most taxing and responsible of duties can kick back and have fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most of them, anyway...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coachmen and the footmen were sitting in their shed at one side of the stable yard, eating their dinner and complaining about having to work on Dead Night. They were also engaging in the time-honoured rituals that go therewith, which largely consist of finding out what their wives have packed for them today and envying the other men whose wives obviously cared more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The head footman raised a crust cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got chicken neck and pickle," he said. "Anyone got any cheese?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The second coachman inspected his box. "It's boiled bacon again," he complained. "She always gives me boiled bacon. She knows I don't like it. She don't even cut the fat off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it thick white fat?" said the first coachman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Horrible. Is this right for a holiday feast or what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll swap you a lettuce and tomato."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right. Whatnot got, Jimmy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The underfootman shyly opened his perfect package. There were four sandwiches, crusts cut off. There was a sprig of parsley. There was even a napkin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smoked salmon and cream cheese," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And still a bit of the wedding cake," said the first coachman. "Ain't you et that all up yet?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have it every night," said the underfootman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shed shook with the ensuing laughter. It is a universal fact that any innocent comment made by any recently-married young member of any workforce is an instant trigger for coarse merriment among his or her older and more cynical colleagues. This happens even if everyone concerned has nine legs and lives at the bottom of an ocean of ammonia on a huge cold planet. It's just one of those things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You make the most of it," said the second coachman gloomily, when they'd settled down again. "It starts off kisses and cake and them cutting the crusts off, and next thing you know it's down to tongue pie, cold bum and the copper stick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The way I see it," the first coachman began, "it's all about the way you - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a knocking at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The underfootman, being the junior member, got up and opened it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's an old crone," he said. "What do you want, old crone?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fancy a drink?" said Nanny Ogg. She held up a jug over which hung a perceptible haze of evaporating alcohol, and blew a paper squeaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said the footman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shame for you lads to be working. It's a holiday! Whoopee!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" the senior coachman began, and then he entered the cloud of alcohol. "Gods! What is that stuff?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smells like rum, Air Travis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The senior coachman hesitated. From the streets came music and laughter as the first of the processions got under way. Fireworks popped across the sky. It wasn't a night to be without just a sip of alcohol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What a nice old lady," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg waved the jug again. "Up your eye!" she said. "Mud in your bottom!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">What might be called the classical witch comes in two basic varieties, the complicated and the simple, or, to put it another way, the ones that have a room full of regalia and the ones that don't. Magrat was by inclination one of the former sort. For example, take magical knives. She had a complete collection of magical knives, all with the appropriate coloured handles and complicated runes all over them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had taken many years under the tutelage of Granny Weatherwax for Magrat to learn that the common kitchen breadknife was better than the most ornate of magic knives. It could do all that the magical knife could do, plus you could also use it to cut bread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Every established kitchen has one ancient knife, its handle worn thin, its blade curved like a banana, and so inexplicably sharp that reaching into the drawer at night is like bobbing for apples in a piranha tank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat had hers stuck in her belt. Currently she was thirty feet above the ground, one hand holding on to her broomstick, the other on to a drainpipe, both legs dangling. Housebreaking ought to be easy, when you had a broomstick. But this did not appear to be the case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally she got both legs around the pipe and a firm grip on a timely gargoyle. She waggled the knife in between the two halves of the window and lifted the latch. After a certain amount of grunting, she was inside, leaning against the wall and panting. Blue lights flashed in front of her eyes, echoing the fireworks that laced the night outside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny had kept on asking her if she was sure she wanted to do this. And she was amazed to find that she was sure. Even if the snake women were already wandering around the house. Being a witch meant going into places you didn't want to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the dress, in the middle of the floor, on a dressmaker's dummy.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A Klatchian Candle burst over Genua. Green and red stars exploded in the velvet darkness, and lit up the gems and silks in front of Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the most beautiful thing she had ever seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She crept forward, her mouth dry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Warm mists rolled through the swamp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol stirred the cauldron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are they doing?" said Saturday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stopping the story," she said. "Or... maybe not..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One way or another, it's our time now. Let's go to the clearing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at Saturday's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you frightened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I... know what will happen afterwards," said the zombie. "Even if we win."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We both do. But we've had twelve years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. We've had twelve years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Ella will rule the city."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the coachmen's shed Nanny Ogg and the coachmen were getting along, as she put it, like a maison en flambe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The underfootman smiled vaguely at the wall, and slumped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's young pipple today," said the head coachman, trying to fish his wig out of his mug. "Can't hold their drin... their drine... stuff..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have a hair of the dog, Mr Travis?" said Nanny, filling the mug. "Or scale of the alligator or whatever you call it in these parts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Reckon," said the senior footman, "we should be gettin' the coesshe ready, what say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Reckon you've got time for one more yet," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ver' generous," said the coachman. "Ver' generous. Here's lookin' at you, Mrsrsrs Goo..."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat had dreamed of dresses like this. In the pit of her soul, in the small hours of the night, she'd danced with princes. Not shy, hardworking princes like Verence back home, but real ones, with crystal blue eyes and white teeth. And she'd worn dresses like this. And they had fitted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the ruched sleeves, the embroidered bodice, the fine white lace. It was all a world away from her... well... Nanny Ogg kept calling them ‘Magrats', but they were trousers, and very practical.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As if being practical mattered at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared for a long time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then, with tears streaking her face and changing colour as they caught the light of the fireworks, she took the knife and began to cut the dress into very small pieces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The senior coachman's head bounced gently off his sandwiches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg stood up, a little unsteadily. She placed the junior footman's wig under his slumbering head, because she was not an unkind woman. Then she stepped out into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure moved near the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat?" hissed Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you see to the dress?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you seen to the footmen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right, then," said Granny Weatherwax, stepping out of the shadows. "Then there's just the coach."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tiptoed theatrically to the coachhouse and opened the door. It grated loudly on the cobbles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shsss!" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a stub of candle and some matches on a ledge. Magrat fumbled the candle alight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach lit up like a glitter ball.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was excessively ornate, as if someone had taken a perfectly ordinary coach and then gone insane with fretwork and gold paint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax walked around it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A bit showy," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seems a real shame to smash it up," said Nanny sadly. She rolled up her sleeves and then, as an afterthought, tucked the hem of her skirt into her drawers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bound to be a hammer somewhere around here," she said, turning to the benches along the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't! That'd make too much noise!" hissed Magrat. "Hang on a moment..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled the despised wand out of her belt, gripped it tightly, and waved it towards the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief inrush of air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blow me down," said Nanny Ogg. "I never would have thought of that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the floor was a large orange pumpkin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was nothing," said Magrat, risking a touch of pride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! That's one coach that'll never roll again," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey... can you do that to the horses too?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat shook her head. "Urn, I think that would be very cruel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right. You're right," said Granny. "No excuse for cruelty to dumb animals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two stallions watched her with equine curiosity as she undid the loose-box gates.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Off you go," she said. "Big green fields out there somewhere." She glanced momentarily at Magrat. "You have been em-horse-sipated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This didn't seem to have much effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sighed. She climbed up onto the wooden wall that separated the boxes, reached up, grabbed a horse ear in either hand, and gently dragged their heads down level with her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She whispered something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stallions turned and looked one another in the eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they looked down at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She grinned at them, and nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is impossible for a horse to go instantly from a standing start to a gallop, but they almost managed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What on earth did you say to them?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mystic horseman's word," said Granny. "Passed down to Gytha's Jason, who passed it up to me. Works every time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He told you it?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, all of it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Granny, smugly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat tucked the wand back into her belt. As she did so, a square of white material fell on to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">White gems and silk glimmered in the candlelight as she reached down hurriedly to pick it up, but there wasn't a lot that escaped Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat Garlick..." she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Magrat meekly. "Yes. I know. I'm a wet hen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny patted her gently on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never mind," she said. "We've done a good night's work here. That Ella has about as much chance of being sent to the ball tonight as I have of... of becoming queen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No dress, no footmen, no horses and no coach," said Granny. "I'd like to see her get out of that one. Stories? Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what're we going to do now?" said Magrat, as they crept out of the yard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's Fat Lunchtime!" said Nanny. "Hot diggety pig!" Greebo wandered out of the darkness and rubbed against her legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought Lily was trying to stamp it out," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"May as well try to stamp out a flood," said Nanny. "Kick out a jam!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't agree with dancing in the streets," said Granny. "How much of that rum did you drink?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on, Esme," said Nanny. "They say if you can't have a good time in Genua you're probably dead." She thought about Saturday. "You can probably have a bit of quiet fun even if you are dead, in Genua."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hadn't we better stay here, though?" said Magrat. "Just to make sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think, Esme?" said Nanny Ogg. "You think she's going to be sent to the ball in a pumpkin, eh? Get a few mice to pull it, eh? Heheh!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A vision of the snake women floated across Granny Weathenvax's mind, and she hesitated. But, after all, it had been a long day. And it was ridiculous, when you came to think about it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, all right," she said. "But I'm not going to kick any jam, you understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's dancing and all sorts," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And banana drinks, I expect," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a million to one chance, yes," said Nanny Ogg happily.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith de Tempscire smiled at herself in the double mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh deary me," she said. "No coach, no dress, no horses. What is a poor old godmother to do? Deary me. And probably lawks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened a small leather case, such as a musician might use to carry his very best piccolo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a wand in there, the twin of the one carried by Magrat. She took it out and gave it a couple of twists, moving the gold and silver rings into a new position.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The clicking sounded like the nastiest pump-action mechanism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And me with nothing but a pumpkin, too," said Lilith.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And of course the difference between sapient and non-sapient things was that while it was hard to change the shape of the former it was not actually impossible. It was just a matter of changing a mental channel. Whereas a non-sapient thing like a pumpkin, and it was hard to imagine anything less sapient than a pumpkin, could not be changed by any magic short of sourcery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unless its molecules remembered a time when they weren't a pumpkin...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laughed, and a billion reflected Liliths laughed with her, all around the curve of the mirror universe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fat Lunchtime was no longer celebrated in the centre of Genua. But in the shanty town around the high white buildings it strutted its dark and torchlit stuff. There were fireworks. There were dancers, and fire-eaters, and feathers, and sequins. The witches, whose idea of homely entertainment was a Morris dance, watched open-mouthed from the crowded sidewalk as the parades strutted by.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's dancing skeletons!" said Nanny, as a score of bony figures whirred down the street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're not," said Magrat. "They're just men in black tights with bones painted on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone nudged Granny Weatherwax. She looked up into the large, grinning face of a black man. He passed her a stone jug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There you go, honey."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny took it, hesitated for a moment, and then took a swig. She nudged Magrat and passed on the bottle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Frgtht!! Gizeer!" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" shouted Magrat, above the noise of a marching band.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The man wants us to pass it on," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked at the bottle neck. She tried surreptitiously to wipe it on her dress, despite the self-evident fact that germs on it would have burned off long ago. She ventured a brief nip, and then nudged Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Kwizathugner!" she said, and dabbed at her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny up-ended the bottle. After a while Magrat nudged her again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we're meant to pass it on?" she ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny wiped her mouth and passed the now rather lighter jug randomly to a tall figure on her left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here you go, mister," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice costume you got there. Them bones are painted on really good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny turned back to watch a procession of juggling fire-eaters. Then a connection appeared to be made somewhere in the back of her mind. She looked up. The stranger had wandered off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What shall we do next?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was staring fixedly at a group of ground-zero limbo dancers. A lot of the dances in the parades had this in common: they expressed explicitly what things like maypoles only hinted at. They covered it with sequins, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll never feel safe in the privy again, eh?" said Nanny Ogg. At her feet Greebo sat primly watching some dancing women wearing nothing but feathers, trying to work out what to do about them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I was thinkin' of something else. I was thinkin' about... how stories work. And now... I think I'd like something to eat," said Granny weakly. She rallied a bit. "And I mean some proper food, not somethin' scraped off the bottom of a pond. And I don't want any of this cuisine stuff, neither."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ought to be more adventurous, Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't against adventure, in moderation," said Granny, "but not when I'm eatin'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a place back there that does alligator sandwiches," said Nanny, turning away from the parade. "Can you believe that? Alligators in a sandwich?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That reminds me of a joke," said Granny Weatherwax. Something was nagging at her consciousness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg started to cough, but it didn't work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This man went into an inn," said Granny Weatherwax, trying to ignore the rising uneasiness. "And he saw this sign. And it said "We serve all kinds of sandwiches." And he said, "Get me an alligator sandwich - and I want it right away!"'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think alligator sandwiches is very kind to alligators," said Magrat, dropping the observation into the leaden pause.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always say a laugh does you good," said Nanny.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith smiled at the figure of Ella, standing forlornly between the snake women.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And such a raggedy dress, too," she said. "And the door to the room was locked. Tut-tut. However can it have happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella stared at her feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith smiled at the sisters. "Well," she said, "we'll just have to do the best we can with what we've got. Hmm? Fetch me... fetch me two rats and two mice. I know you can always find rats and mice. And bring in the big pumpkin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laughed. Not the mad, shrill laughter of the bad fairy who's been defeated, but the rather pleasant laughter of someone who's just seen the joke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked reflectively at the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But first," she said, transferring her gaze to Ella's pale face, "you'd better bring in those naughty men who let themselves get so drunk. That's not respectful. And if you haven't got respect, you haven't got anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The clicking of the wand was the only sound in the kitchen.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg poked at the tall drink in front of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Beats me why they puts an umbrella in it," she said, sucking the cocktail cherry off the stick. "I mean, do they want to stop it getting wet or something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She grinned at Magrat and Granny, who were both staring gloomily at the passing celebrations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cheer up," she said. "Never seen such a pair of long faces in all my puff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's neat rum you're drinking," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're telling me," said Nanny, taking a swig. "Cheers!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was too easy," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was only easy ‘cos we done it," said Nanny. "You want something done, we're the girls to do it, eh? You show me anyone else who could have nipped in there and done all that in the nick of time, eh? Especially the coach bit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't make a good story," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, bugger stories," said Nanny loftily. "You can always change a story."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only at the right places," said Granny. "Anyway, maybe they could get her a new dress and horses and a coach and everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where? When?" said Nanny. "It's a holiday. And there's no time, anyway. They'll be starting the ball at any moment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's fingers drummed on the edge of the cafe table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now what?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't happen like this," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen, Esme, the only kind of magic that'd work right now is wand magic. And Magrat's got the wand." Nanny nodded at Magrat. "Ain't that so, Magrat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Um," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not lost it, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There you are, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only... um... Ella said she'd got two godmothers..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's hand thumped down on the table. Nanny's drink flew into the air and overturned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right!" roared Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was nearly full. That was a nearly full drink," said Nanny reproachfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Best part of a whole glass of- "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did I say I wasn't coming? I was just pointing out - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I just ask the man to get me ano- "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches were halfway up the street when a coach rattled out of the driveway and trundled away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That can't be it!" said Magrat. "We got rid of it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ort to have chopped it up," said Nanny. "There's good eating on a pumpk-‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got us," said Granny, slowing down to a stop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you get into the minds of the horses?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches concentrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They ain't horses," said Nanny. "They feel like..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rats turned into horses," said Granny, who was even better at getting into people's minds than she was at getting under their skins. "They feel like that poor old wolf. Minds like a firework display." She winced at the taste of them in her own head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bet," said Granny, thoughtfully, as the coach skidded around the corner, "I bet I could make the wheels fall right off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not the way," said Magrat. "Anyway, Ella's in there!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There may be another way," said Nanny. "I know someone who could get inside them minds right enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we've still got our brooms," said Nanny. "It should be easy to overtake it, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches landed in an alleyway a few minutes ahead of the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't hold with this," said Granny. "It's the sort of thing Lily does. You can't expect me to like this. Think of that wolf!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny lifted Greebo out of his nest among the bristles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Greebo's nearly human anyway," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it'll only be temp'ry, even with the three of us doing it," she said. "Anyway, it'll be int'resting to see if it works."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but it's wrong," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not for these parts, it seems," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides," said Magrat virtuously, "it can't be bad if we're doing it. We're the good ones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh yes, so we is," said Granny, "and there was me forgetting it for a minute there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny stood back. Greebo, aware that something was expected of him, sat up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You must admit we can't think of anything better, Granny," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hesitated. But under all the revulsion was the little treacherous flame of fascination with the idea. Besides, she and Greebo had hated one another cordially for years. Almost human, eh? Give him a taste of it, then, and see how he likes it... She felt a bit ashamed of the thought. But not much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They concentrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Lily knew, changing the shape of an object is one of the hardest magics there is. But it's easier if the object is alive. After all, a living thing already knows what shape it is. All you have to do is change its mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo yawned and stretched. To his amazement he went on stretching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Through the pathways of his feline brain surged a tide of belief. He suddenly believed he was human. He wasn't simply under the impression that he was human; he believed it implicitly. The sheer force of the unshakeable belief flowed out into his morphic field, overriding its objections, rewriting the very blueprint of his self.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fresh instructions surged back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If he was human, he didn't need all this fur. And he ought to be bigger...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches watched, fascinated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never thought we'd do it," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... no points on the ears, the whiskers were too long...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... he needed more muscle, all these bones were the wrong shape, these legs ought to be longer...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it was finished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo unfolded himself and stood up, a little unsteadily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny stared, her mouth open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then her eyes moved downwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," said Granny Weatherwax, "that we d better imagine some clothes on him right now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was easy enough. When Greebo had been clothed to her satisfaction Granny nodded and stood back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat, you can open your eyes," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hadn't got them closed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you should have had."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo turned slowly, a faint, lazy smile on his scarred fpce. As a human, his nose was broken and a black patch covered his bad eye. But the other one glittered like the sins of angels, and his smile was the downfall of saints. Female ones, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was pheromones, or the way his muscles rippled under his black leather shirt. Greebo broadcast a kind of greasy diabolic sexuality in the megawatt range. Just looking at him was enough to set dark wings fluttering in the crimson night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh, Greebo," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth. Incisors glittered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwwwl," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you understand me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yessss, Nannyyy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg leaned against the wall for support.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of hooves. The coach had turned into the street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get out there and stop that coach!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo grinned again, and darted out of the alley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny fanned herself with her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whoo-eee," she said. "And to think I used to tickle his tummy... No wonder all the lady cats scream at night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gytha!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you've gone very red, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm just out of breath," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny, that. It's not as if you've been running."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach rattled down the street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coachmen and footmen were not at all sure what they were. Their minds oscillated wildly. One moment they were men thinking about cheese and bacon rinds. And the next they were mice wondering why they had trousers on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As for the horses... horses are a little insane anyway, and being a rat as well wasn't any help.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So none of them were in a very stable frame of mind when Greebo stepped out of the shadows and grinned at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, "Wrowwwl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The horses tried to stop, which is practically impossible with a coach still piling along behind you. The coachmen froze in terror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwwl?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach skidded around and came up broadside against a wall, knocking the coachmen off. Greebo picked one of them up by his collar and bounced him up and down while the maddened horses fought to get out of the shafts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Run awayy, furry toy?" he suggested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind the frightened eyes man and mouse fought for supremacy. But they needn't have bothered. They would lose either way. As consciousness flickered between the states it saw either a grinning cat or a six-foot, well-muscled, one-eyed grinning bully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coachmouse fainted. Greebo patted him a few times, in case he was going to move...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wake up, little mousey..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and then lost interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach door rattled, jammed, and then opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?" said Ella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwwwl!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's boot hit Greebo on the back of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh no you don't, my lad," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Want to," said Greebo sulkily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You always do, that's your trouble," said Nanny, and smiled at Ella. "Out you come, dear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo shrugged, and then slunk off, dragging the stunned coachman after him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?" complained Ella. "Oh. Magrat. Did you do this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat allowed herself a moment's shy pride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said you wouldn't have to go to the ball, didn't I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella looked around at the disabled coach, and then back to the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ain't got any snake women in there with you, have you?" said Granny. Magrat gripped the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They went on ahead," said Ella. Her face clouded as she recalled something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lilith turned the real coachmen into beetles," she whispered. "I mean, they weren't that bad! She made them get some mice and she made them human and then she said, there's got to be balance, and the sisters dragged in the coachmen and she turned them into beetles and then... she trod on them..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped, horrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A firework burst in the sky, but in the street below a bubble of terrible silence hung in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Witches don't kill people," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is foreign parts," muttered Nanny, looking away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think," said Granny Weatherwax, "that you ought to get right away from here, young lady."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They just went crack - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got the brooms," said Magrat. "We could all get away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'd send something after you," said Ella darkly. "I know her. Something from out of a mirror."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we'd fight it," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Granny." Whatever's going to happen's going to happen here. We'll send the young lady off somewhere safe and then... we shall see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But if I go away she'll know," said Ella. "She's expecting to see me at the ball right now! And she'll come looking!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That sounds right, Esme," said Nanny Ogg. "You want to face her somewhere you choose. I don't want her lookin' for us on a night like this. I want to see her coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a fluttering in the darkness above them. A small dark shape glided down and landed on the cobbles. Even in the darkness its eyes gleamed. It stared expectantly at the witches with far too much intelligence for a mere fowl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's Mrs Gogol's cockerel," said Nanny, "ain't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly what it is I might never exactly decide," said Granny. "I wish I knew where she stood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good or bad, you mean?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a good cook," said Nanny. "I don't think anyone can cook like she do and be that bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is she the woman who lives out in the swamp?" said Ella. "I've heard all kinds of stories about her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a bit too ready to turn dead people into zombies," said Granny. "And that's not right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we just turned a cat into a person - I mean, a human person" - Nanny, inveterate cat lover, corrected herself- "and that's not strictly right either. It's probably a long way from strictly right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but we did it for the right reasons," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't know what Mrs Gogol's reasons are - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a growl from the alley-way. Nanny scuttled towards it, and they heard her scolding voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No! Put him down this minute!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mine! Mine!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Legba strutted a little way along the street, and then turned and looked expectantly at them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny scratched her chin, and walked a little way away from Magrat and Ella, sizing them up. Then she turned and looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," she said. "Lily is expecting to see you, ain't she?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She can look out of reflections," said Ella nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," said Granny again. She stuck her finger in her ear and twiddled it for a moment. "Well, Magrat, you're the godmother around here. What's the most important thing we have to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat had never played a card game in her life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Keep Ella safe," she said promptly, amazed at Granny suddenly admitting that she was, after all, the one who had been given the wand. "That's what fairy godmothering is all about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax frowned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," she said, "you two are just about the same size..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat's expression of puzzlement lasted for half a second before it was replaced by one of sudden horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone's got to do it," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, no! No! It wouldn't work! It really wouldn't work! No!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat   Garlick,"   said   Granny   Weatherwax,   triumphantly, "you shall go to the ball!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach cornered on two wheels. Greebo stood on the coachman's box, swaying and grinning madly and cracking the whip. This was even better than his fluffy ball with a bell in it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Inside the coach Magrat was wedged between the two older witches, her head in her hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Ella might get lost in the swamp!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not with that cockerel leading the way. She'll be safer in Mrs Gogol's swamp than at the ball, I know that," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're welcome," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone'll know I'm not her!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not with the mask on they won't," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But my hair's the wrong colour!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can tint that up a treat, no problem," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm the wrong shape!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can - " Granny hesitated. "Can you, you know, puff yourself out a bit more?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you got a spare handkerchief, Gytha?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon I could tear a bit off my petticoat, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ouch!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And these glass shoes don't fit!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They fit me fine," said Nanny. "I gave ‘em a try."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but I've got smaller feet than you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's all right," said Granny. "You put on a couple of pairs of my socks and they'll fit real snug."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bereft of all further excuses, Magrat struck out in sheer desperation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I don't know how to behave at balls!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had to admit that she didn't, either. She raised her eyebrows at Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You used to go dancin' when you were young," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," said Nanny Ogg, social tutor, "what you do is, you tap men with your fan - got your fan? - and say things like "La, sir!" It helps to giggle, too. And flutter your eyelashes a bit. And pout."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How am I supposed to pout?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg demonstrated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yuk!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry," said Granny. "We'll be there too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that's supposed to make me feel better, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny reached behind Magrat and grabbed Granny's shoulder. Her lips formed the words: Won't work. She's all to pieces. No confidence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps I ought to do it," said Nanny, in a loud voice. "I'm experienced at balls. I bet if I wore my hair long and wore the mask and them shiny shoes and we hemmed up the dress a foot no one'd know the difference, what do you say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was so overawed by the sheer fascinating picture of this that she obeyed unthinkingly when Granny Weatherwax said, "Look at me, Magrat Garlick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pumpkin coach entered the palace drive at high speed, scattering horses and pedestrians, and braked by the steps in a shower of gravel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was fun," said Greebo. And then lost interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of flunkies bustled forward to open the door, and were nearly thrown back by the sheer force of the arrogance that emanated from within.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hurry up, peasants!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat swept out, pushing the major-domo away. She gathered up her skirts and ran up the red carpet. At the top, a footman was unwise enough to ask her for her ticket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You impertinent lackey!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The footman, recognizing instantly the boundless bad manners of the well-bred, backed away quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down by the coach, Nanny Ogg said, "You don't think you might have overdone it a little bit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had to," said Granny. "You know what she's like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are we going to get in? We ain't got tickets. And we ain't dressed properly, either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get the broomsticks down off the rack," said Granny. "We're going straight to the top."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They touched down on the battlements of a tower overlooking the palace grounds. The strains of courtly music drifted up from below, and there was the occasional pop and flare of fireworks from the river.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny opened a likely-looking door in the tower and descended the circular stairs, which led to a landing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Posh carpet on the floor," said Nanny. "Why's it on the walls too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Them's tapestries," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor," said Nanny. "You live and learn. Well, I do anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stopped with her hand on a doorknob.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean by that?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I never knew you had a sister."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We never talked about her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a shame when families break up like that," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Huh! You said your sister Beryl was a greedy ingrate with the conscience of an oyster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, yes, but she is my sister."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny opened the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, well," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's up? What's up? Don't just stand there." Nanny peered around her and into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat paused in the big, red-velvet ante-room. Strange thoughts fireworked around her head; she hadn't felt like this since the herbal wine. But struggling among them like a tiny prosaic potato in a spray of psychedelic chrysanthemums was an inner voice screaming that she didn't even know how to dance. Apart from in circles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it couldn't be difficult if ordinary people managed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tiny inner Magrat struggling to keep its balance on the surge of arrogant self-confidence wondered if this was how Granny Weatherwax felt all the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She raised the hem of her dress slightly and looked down at her shoes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They couldn't be real glass, or else she'd be hobbling towards some emergency first aid by now. Nor were they transparent. The human foot is a useful organ but is not, except to some people with highly specialized interests, particularly attractive to look at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shoes were mirrors. Dozens of facets caught the light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two mirrors on her feet. Magrat vaguely recalled something about... about a witch never getting caught between two mirrors, wasn't it? Or was it never trust a man with orange eyebrows? Something she'd been taught, back when she'd been an ordinary person. Something... like... a witch should never stand between two mirrors because, because, because the person that walked away might not be the same person. Or something. Like... you were spread out among the images, your whole soul was pulled out thin, and somewhere in the distant images a dark part of you would get out and come looking for you, if you weren't very careful. Or something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She overruled the thought. It didn't matter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stepped forward, to where a little knot of other guests were waiting to make their entrance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lord Henry Gleet and Lady Gleet!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ballroom wasn't a room at all, but a courtyard open to the soft night airs. Steps led down into it. At the far end, another much wider staircase, lined with nickering torches, led up into the palace itself. On the far wall, huge and easily visible, was a clock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Honourable Douglas Incessant!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The time was a quarter to eight. Magrat had a vague recollection of some old woman shouting something about the time, but... that didn't matter either...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lady Volentia D'Arrangement!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached the top of the stairs. The butler who was announcing the arrivals looked her up and down and then, in the manner of one who had been coached carefully all afternoon for this very moment, bellowed:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... Mysterious and beautiful stranger!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence spread out from the bottom of the steps like spilled paint. Five hundred heads turned to look at Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A day before, even the mere thought of having five hundred people staring at her would have melted Magrat like butter in a furnace. But now she stared back, smiled, and raised her chin haughtily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her fan snapped open like a gunshot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mysterious and beautiful stranger, daughter of Simplicity Garlick, granddaughter of Araminta Garlick, her self-possession churning so strongly that it was crystallizing out on the sides of her personality...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... stepped out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment later another guest stalked past the butler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butler hesitated. Something about the figure worried him. It kept going in and out of focus. He wasn't entirely certain if there was anyone else there at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then his common sense, which had temporarily gone and hidden behind something, took over. After all, it was Samedi Nuit Mort - people were supposed to dress up and look weird. You were allowed to see people like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, er, sir," he said. "Who shall I say it is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M HERE INCOGNITO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butler was sure nothing had been said, but he was also certain that he had heard the words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Urn... fine..." he mumbled. "Go on in, then... urn." He brightened. "Damn good mask, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched the dark figure walk down the steps, and leaned against a pillar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, that was about it. He pulled a handkerchief out from his pocket, removed his powdered wig, and wiped his brow. He felt as though he'd just had a narrow escape, and what was even worse was that he didn't know from what.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked cautiously around, and then sidled into the ante-room and took up a position behind a velvet curtain, where he could enjoy a quiet roll-up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nearly swallowed it when another figure loped silently up the red carpet. It was dressed like a pirate that had just raided a ship carrying black leather goods for the discerning customer. One eye had a patch over it. The other gleamed like a malevolent emerald. And no-one that big ought to be able to walk that quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butler stuck the dog-end behind his ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, milord," he said, running after the man and touching him firmly yet respectfully on the arm. "I shall need to see your tic... your... tic...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man transferred his gaze to the hand on his arm. The butler let go hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwwl?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your... ticket..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man opened his mouth and hissed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course," said the butler, backing away with the efficient speed of someone who certainly isn't being paid enough to face a needle-toothed maniac in black leather, "I expect you're one of the Duc's friends, yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No problem... no problem... but Sir has forgotten Sir's mask..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwl?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butler waved frantically to a side-table piled high with masks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Duc requested that everyone here is masked," said the butler. "Er. I wonder if Sir would find something here to his liking?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There's always a few of them, he thought to himself. It says ‘Masque' in big curly letters on the invite, in gold yet, but there's always a few buggers who thinks it means it's from someone called Maskew. This one was quite likely looting towns when he should have been learning to read.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The greasy man stared at the masks. All the good ones had been taken by earlier arrivals, but that didn't seem to dismay him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Want that one," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er... a... very good choice, my lord. Allow me to help you on - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwl!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The butler backed away, clutching at his own arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man glared at him, then dropped the mask over his head and squinted out through an eyehole at a mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn odd, the butler thought. I mean, it's not the kind of mask the men choose. They go for skulls and birds and bulls and stuff like that. Not cats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The odd thing was that the mask had just been a pretty ginger cat head when it was on the table. On its wearer it was... still a cat head, only a lot more so, and somehow slightly more feline and a lot nastier than it should have been.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aaalwaaays waanted to bee ginger," said the man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"On you it looks good, sir," trilled the butler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cat-headed man turned his head this way and that, clearly in love with what he was seeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo yowled softly and happily to himself and ambled into the ball. He wanted something to eat, someone to fight, and then... well, he'd have to see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For wolves and pigs and bears, thinking that they're human is a tragedy. For a cat, it's an experience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, this new shape was a lot more fun. No-one had thrown an old boot at him for over ten minutes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two witches looked around the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Odd," said Nanny Ogg. "Not what I'd expect in, you know, a royal bedroom."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it a royal bedroom?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a crown on the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked around at the decor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you know about royal bedrooms?" she said, more or less for something to say. "You've never been in a royal bedroom."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I might have been," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never have!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember young Verence's coronation? We all got invited to the palace?" said Nanny. "When I went to have a - to powder my nose I saw the door open, so I went in and had a bit of a bounce up and down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's treason. You can get put in prison for that," said Granny severely, and added, "What was it like?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very comfy. Young Magrat doesn't know what she's missing. And it was a lot better than this, I don't mind saying," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The basic colour was green. Green walls, green floor. There was a wardrobe and a bedside table. Even a bedside rug, which was green. The light filtered in through a window filled with greenish glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like being at the bottom of a pond," said Granny. She swatted something. "And there's flies everywhere!" She paused, as if thinking very hard, and said, "Hmm..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A Duc pond," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were flies everywhere. They buzzed on the window and zigzagged aimlessly back and forth across the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Duc pond," Nanny repeated, because people who make that kind of joke never let well alone, "like duck - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard," said Granny. She flailed at a fat bluebottle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, you'd think there wouldn't be flies in a royal bedroom," muttered Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd think there'd be a bed, in fact," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which there wasn't. What there was instead, and what was preying somewhat on their minds, was a big round wooden cover on the floor. It was about six feet across. There were convenient handles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They walked around it. Flies rose up and hummed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm thinking of a story," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me too," said Nanny Ogg, her tone slightly shriller than usual. "There was this girl who married this man and he said you can go anywhere you like in the palace but you mustn't open that door and she did and she found he'd murdered all his other..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her voice trailed off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was staring hard at the cover, and scratching her chin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Put it like this," said Nanny, trying to be reasonable against all odds. "What could we possibly find under there dial's worse than we could imagine?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They each took a handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Five minutes later Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg stepped outside the Duc's bedroom. Granny closed the door very quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stared at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor," said Nanny, her face still pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Granny. "Stories!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd heard about... you know, people like him, but I never believed it. Yuk. I wonder what he looks like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't tell just by lookin'," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It explains the flies, at any rate," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She raised a hand to her mouth in horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And our Magrat's down there with him!" she said. "And you know what's going to happen. They're going to meet one another and - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But there's hundreds of other people," said Granny. "It's hardly what you'd call intimate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes... but even the thought of him, you know, even touching her... I mean, it'd be like holding a -*</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does Ella count as a princess, d'you think?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. Yeah. Probably. For foreign parts. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then that means there's more than one story here. Lily's letting several happen all at the same time," said Granny. "Think about it. It's not touching that's the trick. It's kissing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got to get down there!" said Nanny. "We've got to stop it! I mean, you know me, I'm no prude, but... yuk..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I say! Old woman!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned. A small fat woman in a red dress and a towering white wig was peering haughtily at them from behind a fox mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" snapped Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, my lady," said the fat woman. "Where are your manners? I demand that you direct me to the powder room this instant! And what do you think you're doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was to Nanny Ogg, who was walking around her and staring critically at her dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a 20, maybe a 22?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? What is this impertinence?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg rubbed her chin thoughtfully. "Well, I dunno," she said, "red in a dress has never been me. You haven't got anything in blue, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The choleric woman turned to strike Nanny with her fan, but a skinny hand tapped her on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up into Granny Weatherwax's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she passed out dreamily she was aware of a voice, a long way off, saying, "Well, that's me fitted. But she's never a size 20. And if I had a face like that I'd never wear red..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Volentia D'Arrangement relaxed in the inner sanctum of the ladies' rest room. She removed her mask and fished an errant beauty spot from the depths of her decolletage. Then she reached around and down to try and adjust her bustle, an exercise guaranteed to produce the most ridiculous female gymnastics on every world except those where the panty girdle had been invented.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Apart from being as well-adapted a parasite as the oak bracket fungus Lady Volentia D'Arrangement was, by and large, a blameless sort of person. She always attended events for the better class of charity, and made a point of knowing the first names of nearly all her servants - the cleaner ones, at least. And she was, on the whole, kind to animals and even to children if they had been washed and didn't make too much noise. All in all, she didn't deserve what was about to happen to her, which was the fate Mother Nature had in store for any woman in this room on this night who happened to have approximately the same measurements as Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was aware of someone coming up beside her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"S'cuse me, missus."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It turned out to be a small, repulsive lower-class woman with a big ingratiating smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want, old woman?" said Lady Volentia.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"S'cuse me," said Nanny Ogg. "My friend over there would like a word with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Volentia looked around haughtily into...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... icy, blue-eyed, hypnotic oblivion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's this thing like an extra bu... hobo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a bustle, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's damn uncomfortable is what it is. I keep on feeling someone's following me around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The white suits you, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No it don't. Black's the only colour for a proper witch. And this wig is too hot. Who wants a foot of hair on their heads?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny donned her mask. It was an eagle's face in white feathers stuck with sequins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny adjusted some unmentionable underpinning somewhere beneath her crinoline and straightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor, look at us," she said. "Them feathers in your hair really look good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never been vain," said Granny Weatherwax. "You know that, Gytha. No-one could ever call me vain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Esme," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny twirled a bit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you ready then, Dame Ogg?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Let's do it, Lady Weatherwax."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dance floor was thronged. Decorations hung from every pillar, but they were black and silver, the colours of the festival of Samedi Nuit Mort. An orchestra was playing on a balcony. Dancers whirled. The din was immense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A waiter with a tray of drinks suddenly found that he was a waiter without a tray of drinks. He looked around, and then down to a small fox under a huge white wig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bugger off and get us some more," said Nanny pleasantly. "Can you see her, your ladyship?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's too many people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, can you see the Duc?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do I know? Everyone's got masks on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, is that food over there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Many of the less energetic or more hungry of the Genua nobility were clustered around the long buffet. All they were aware of, apart from sharp digs with a pair of industrious elbows, was an amiable monotone at chest height, on the lines of "... mind your backs... stand aside there... comin' through."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny fought her way to the table and nudged a space for Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cor, what a spread, eh?" she said. "Mind you, they have tiny chickens in these parts." She grabbed a plate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Them's quails."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll ‘ave three. "Ere, charlie chan!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A flunkey stared at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Got any pickles?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid not, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked along a table which included roast swans, a roasted peacock that probably wouldn't have felt any better about it even if it had known that its tail feathers were going to be stuck back in afterwards, and more fruits, boiled lobsters, nuts, cakes, creams and trifles than a hermit's dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, got any relish?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tomato ketchup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they call this a gormay paradise," muttered Nanny, as the band struck up the next dance. She nudged a tall figure helping himself to the lobster. "Some place, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">VERY NICE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good mask you've got there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny was spun around by Granny Weatherwax's hand on her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's Magrat!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where? Where?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Over there... sitting by the potted plants."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes. On the chassy longyew," said Nanny. "That's "sofa" in foreign, you know," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's she doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Being attractive to men, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, Magrat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. You're really getting good at that hypnotism, ain't you."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat fluttered her fan and looked up at the Compte de Yoyo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"La, sir," she said. "You may get me another plate of lark's eggs, if you really must."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like a shot, dear lady!" The old man bustled off in the direction of the buffet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat surveyed her empire of admirers, and then extended a languorous hand towards Captain de Vere of the Palace Guard. He stood to attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dear captain," she said, "you may have the pleasure of the next dance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Acting like a hussy," said Granny disapprovingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny gave her an odd look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not really," she said. "Anyway, a bit of hussing never did anyone any harm. At least none of those men look like the Duc. "Ere, what you doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was to a small bald-headed man who was trying surreptitiously to set up a small easel in front of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Uh... if you ladies could just hold still for a few minutes," he said shyly. "For the woodcut?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What woodcut?" said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," said the man, opening a small penknife. "Everyone likes to see their woodcut in the broadsheets after a ball like this? "Lady Thing enjoying a joke with Lord Whatsit", that sort of thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax opened her mouth to reply, but Nanny Ogg laid a gentle hand on her arm. She relaxed a little and sought for something more suitable to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knows a joke about alligator sandwiches," she volunteered, and shook Nanny's hand away. "There was a man, and he went into an inn and he said "Do you sell alligator sandwiches?" and the other man said "Yes" and he said, "Then give me an alligator sandwich - and don't be a long time about it!""</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave him a triumphant look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" said the woodcutter, chipping away quickly, "And then what happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg dragged Granny away quickly, searching for a distraction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some people don't know a joke when they hear it," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the band launched into another number Nanny Ogg rumbled in a pocket and found the dance card that belonged to an owner now slumbering peacefully in a distant room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is," she turned the card round, her lips moving wonderingly, "Sir, Roger the Coverley?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ma'am?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked around. A plump military man with big whiskers was bowing to her. He looked as though he'd enjoyed quite a few jokes in his time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You promised me the honour of this dance, m'lady?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No I didn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked puzzled. "But I assure you, Lady D'Arrangement... your card... my name is Colonel Moutarde..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny gave him a look of deep suspicion, and then read the dance card attached to her fan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know how to dance?" hissed Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never seen you dance," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had been on the point of giving the colonel as polite a refusal as she could manage. Now she threw back her shoulders defiantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A witch can do anything she puts her mind to, Gytha Ogg. Come, Mr Colonel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny watched as the pair disappeared into the throng.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘Allo, foxy lady," said a voice behind her. She looked around. There was no-one there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Down here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A very small body wearing the uniform of a captain in the palace guard, a powdered wig and an ingratiating smile beamed up at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name's Casanunda," he said. "I'm reputed to be the world's greatest lover. What do you think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked him up and down or, at least, down and further down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a dwarf," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Size isn't important."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg considered her position. One colleague known for her shy and retiring nature was currently acting like that whatshername, the heathen queen who was always playing up to men and bathing in asses' milk and stuff, and the other one was acting very odd and dancing with a man even though she didn't know one foot from the other. Nanny Ogg felt she was at least owed a bit of time in which to be her own woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you dance as well?" she said wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh yes. How about a date?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How old do you think I am?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Casanunda considered. "All right, then. How about a prune?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sighed, and reached down for his hand. "Come on."</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Volentia D'Arrangement staggered limply along a passageway, a forlorn thin shape in complicated corsetry and ankle-length underwear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wasn't at all sure what had happened. There had been that frightful woman, and then this feeling of absolute bliss and then... she'd been sitting on the carpet with her dress off. Lady Volentia had been to enough balls in her dull life to know that there were occasions when you woke up in strange rooms with your dress off, but that tended to be later in the evening and at least you had some idea of why you were there...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She eased her way along, holding on to the wall. Someone was definitely going to get told off about this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure came around a bend in the corridor, idly tossing a turkey leg into the air with one hand and catching it with the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I say," said Lady Volentia, "I wonder if you would be so good as to - oh..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up at a leather-clad figure with an eyepatch and a grin like a corsair raider.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wroowwwwl!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh. I say!"</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing to this dancing, Granny Weatherwax told herself. It's just moving around to music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It helped to be able to read her partner's mind. Dancing is instinctive, after you've got past that stage of looking down to see what your feet are doing, and witches are good at reading resonating instincts. There was a slight struggle as the colonel tried to lead, but he soon gave in, partly in the face of Granny Weatherwax's sheer refusal to compromise but mainly because of her boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady D'Arrangement's shoes hadn't fitted. Besides, Granny was attached to her boots. They had complicated iron fixtures, and toecaps like battering rams. When it came to dancing, Granny's boots went exactly wherever they wanted to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She steered her helpless and slightly crippled partner towards Nanny Ogg, who had already cleared quite a space around her. What Granny could achieve with two pounds of hobnailed syncopation Nanny Ogg could achieve merely with her bosom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a large and experienced bosom, and not one that was subject to restraint. As Nanny Ogg bounced down, it went up; when she gyrated right, it hadn't finished twirling left. In addition, Nanny's feet moved in a complicated jig step regardless of the actual tempo, so that while her body actually progressed at the speed of a waltz her feet were doing something a bit nearer to a hornpipe. The total effect obliged her partner to dance several feet away, and many surrounding couples to stop dancing just to watch in fascination, in case the build-up of harmonic vibrations dropped her into the chandeliers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny and her helpless partner whirled past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop showin' off," Granny hissed, and disappeared into the throng again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's your friend?" said Casanunda.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's - " Nanny began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a blast of trumpets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was a bit off the beat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, that means the Duc is arriving," said Casanunda.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The band stopped playing. The couples, as one, turned and faced the main staircase.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two figures descending in stately fashion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My word, he's a sleek and handsome devil, Nanny told herself. It just goes to show. Esme's right. You can never tell by lookin'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And her...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... that's Lily Weatherwax?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman wasn't masked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Give or take the odd laughter line and wrinkle, it was Granny Weatherwax to the life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Almost...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny found she was turning to find the white eagle head in the crowd. All heads were turned to die staircase, but there was one staring as if her gaze was a steel rod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax wore white. Until that point it had never occurred to Nanny Ogg that there could be different colours of white. Now she knew better. The white of Lily Weatherwax's dress seemed to radiate; if all the lights went out, she felt, Lily's dress would glow. It had style. It gleamed, and had puffed sleeves and was edged with lace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Lily Weatherwax looked - Nanny Ogg had to admit it - younger. There was the same bone structure and fine Weatherwax complexion, but it looked... less worn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If that's what bein' bad does to you, Nanny thought, I could of done with some of that years ago. The wages of sin is death but so is the salary of virtue, and at least the evil get to go home early on Fridays.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eyes were the same, though. Somewhere in the genetics of the Weatherwaxes was a piece of sapphire. Maybe generations of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Duc was unbelievably handsome. But that was understandable. He was wearing black. Even his eyes wore black.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny surfaced, and pushed her way through the throng to Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She grabbed Granny's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny was aware that the crowd was moving, parting like a sea, between the staircase and the chaise-longue at the far end of the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's knuckles were as white as her dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Esme? What's happening? What are you doing?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trying... to... stop... the story," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's she doing, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Letting... things... happen!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowd were pulling back past them. It didn't seem to be a conscious thing. It was just happening that a sort of corridor was forming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Prince walked slowly along it. Behind Lily, faint images hung in the air so that she appeared to be followed by a succession of fading ghosts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny was aware of a rainbow hue in the air. Possibly there was the tweeting of bluebirds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Prince took Magrat by the hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny glanced up at Lily Weatherwax, who had remained a few steps up from the foot of the stairs and was smiling beneficently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she tried to put a focus on the future.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was horribly easy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Normally the future is branching off at every turn and it's only possible to have the haziest idea of what is likely to happen, even when you're as temporally sensitive as a witch. But here there were stories coiled around the tree of events, bending it into a new shape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax wouldn't know what a pattern of quantum inevitability was if she found it eating her dinner. If you mentioned the words ‘paradigms of space-time' to her she'd just say ‘What?" But that didn't mean she was ignorant. It just meant that she didn't have any truck with words, especially gibberish. She just knew that there were certain things that happened continually in human history, like three-dimensional cliches. Stories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now we're part of it! And I can't stop it," said Granny. "There's got to be a place where I can stop it, and I can't find it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The band struck up. It was playing a waltz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and the Prince whirled around the dance floor once, never taking their eyes off each other. Then a few couples dared to join them. And then, as if the whole ball was a machine whose spring had been wound up again, the floor was full of dancing couples and the sounds of conversation flowed back into the void.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you going to introduce me to your friend?" said Casanunda, from somewhere near Nanny's elbow. People swept past them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all got to happen," said Granny, ignoring the low-level interruption. "Everything. The kiss, the clock striking midnight, her running out and losing the glass slipper, everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ur, yuk," said Nanny, leaning on her partner's head. "I'd rather lick toads."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She looks just my type," said Casanunda, his voice slightly muffled. "I've always been very attracted to dominant women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches looked at the whirling couple, who were staring into one another's eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could trip them up, no trouble," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't. That's not something that can happen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Magrat's sensible... more or less sensible," said Nanny. "Maybe she'll notice something's wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm good at what I do, Gytha Ogg," said Granny. "She won't notice nothing until the clock strikes midnight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both turned to look up. It was barely nine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Y'know," said Nanny Ogg. "Clocks don't strike midnight. Seems to me they just strike twelve. I mean, it's just a matter of bongs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both looked up at the clock again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the swamp, Legba the black cockerel crowed. He always crowed at sunset.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg pounded up another flight of stairs and leaned against the wall to catch her breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had to be somewhere round here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another time you'll learn to keep your mouth shut, Gytha Ogg," she muttered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I expect we're leaving the hurly-burly of the ball for an intimate tete-a-tete somewhere?" said Casanunda hopefully, trotting along behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tried to ignore him and ran along a dusty passage. There was a balcony rail on one side, looking down into the ballroom. And there...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... a small wooden door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She rammed it open with her elbow. Within, mechanisms whirred in counterpoint to the dancing figures below as if the clock was propelling them, which, in a metaphorical sense, it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Clockwork, Nanny thought. Once you know about clockwork, you know about everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wish I bloody well knew about clockwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very cosy," said Casanunda.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She squeezed through the gap and into the clock space. Cog-wheels clicked past her nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at them for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lawks. All this just to chop Time up into little bits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It might be just the teensiest bit cramped," said Casanunda, from somewhere near her armpit. "But needs must, ma'am. I remember once in Quirm, there was this sedan chair and..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Let's see, thought Nanny. This bit is connected to that bit, this one turns, that one turns faster, this spiky bit wobbles backwards and forwards...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, well. Just twist the first thing you can grab, as the High Priest said to the vestal virgin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg spat on her hands, gripped the largest cogwheel, and twisted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It carried on turning, pulling her with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blimey. Oh, well...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she did what neither Granny Weatherwax nor Magrat would have dreamed of doing in the circumstances. But Nanny Ogg's voyages on the sea of inter-sexual dalliance had gone rather further than twice around the lighthouse, and she saw nothing demeaning in getting a man to help her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She simpered at Casanunda.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Things would be a lot more comfortable in our little pie-de-terre if you could just push this little wheel around a bit," she said. "I'm sure you could manage it," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, no problem, good lady," said Casanunda. He reached up with one hand. Dwarfs are immensely strong for their size. The wheel seemed to offer him no resistance at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere in the mechanism something resisted for a moment and then went clonk. Big wheels turned reluctantly. Little wheels screamed on their axles. A small important piece flew out and pinged off Casanunda's small bullet head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And, much faster than nature had ever intended, the hands sped round the face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A new noise right overhead made Nanny Ogg look up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her self-satisfied expression faded. The hammer that struck the hours was swinging slowly backwards. It struck Nanny that she was standing right under the bell at the same time as the bell, too, was struck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, bugger!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... bong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... bong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... bong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mist rolled through the swamp. And shadows moved with it, their shapes indistinct on this night when the difference between the living and the dead was only a matter of time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol could feel them among the trees. The homeless. The hungry. The silent people. Those forsaken by men and gods. The people of the mists and the mud, whose only strength was somewhere on the other side of weakness, whose beliefs were as rickety and homemade as their homes. And the people from the city — not the ones who lived in the big white houses and went to balls in fine coaches, but the other ones. They were the ones that stories are never about. Stories are not, on the whole, interested in swineherds who remain swineherds and poor and humble shoe-makers whose destiny is to die slightly poorer and much humbler.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These people were the ones who made the magical kingdom work, who cooked its meals and swept its floors and carted its night soil and were its faces in the crowd and whose wishes and dreams, undemanding as they were, were of no consequence. The invisibles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And me out here, she thought. Building traps for gods.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are various forms of voodoo in the multiverse, because it's a religion that can be put together from any ingredients that happen to be lying around. And all of them try, in some way, to call down a god into the body of a human being.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was stupid, Mrs Gogol thought. That was dangerous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol's voodoo worked the other way about. What was a god? A focus of belief. If people believed, a god began to grow. Feebly at first, but if the swamp taught anything, it taught patience. Anything could be the focus of a god. A handful of feathers with a red ribbon around them, a hat and coat on a couple of sticks... anything. Because when all people had was practically nothing, then anything could be almost everything. And then you fed it, and lulled it, like a goose heading for pate, and let the power grow very slowly, and when the time was ripe you opened the path... backwards. A human could ride the god, rather than the other way around. There would be a price to pay later, but there always was. In Mrs Gogol's experience, everyone ended up dying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took a pull of rum and handed the jug to Saturday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday took a mouthful, and passed the jug up to something that might have been a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let it begin," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dead man picked up three small drums and began to beat out a rhythm, heartbeat fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while something tapped Mrs Gogol on the shoulder and handed her the jug. It was empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Might as well begin...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lady Bon Anna smile on me. Mister Safe Way protect me. Stride Wide Man guide me. Hotaloga Andrews catch me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I stand between the light and the dark, but that no matter, because I am between.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here is rum for you. Tobacco for you. Food for you. A home for you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now you listen to me good..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... bong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For Magrat it was like waking from a dream into a dream. She'd been idly dreaming that she was dancing with the most handsome man in the room, and... she was dancing with the most handsome man in the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except that he wore two circles of smoked glass over his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Although Magrat was soft-hearted, a compulsive daydreamer and, as Granny Weatherwax put it, a wet hen, she wouldn't be a witch if she didn't have certain instincts and the sense to trust them. She reached up and, before his hands could move, tweaked the things away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat had seen eyes like that before, but never on something walking upright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her feet, which a moment before had been moving gracefully across the floor, tripped over themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Er..." she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she was aware that his hands, pink and well-manicured, were also cold and damp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat turned and ran, knocking the couples aside in her madness to get away. Her legs tangled in the dress. The stupid shoes skittered on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of footmen blocked the stairs to the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat's eyes narrowed. Getting out was what mattered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hai!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ouch!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then she ran on, slipping at the top of the stairs. A glass slipper slithered across the marble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How the hell's anyone supposed to move in these things?" she screamed at the world in general. Hopping frantically on one foot, she wrenched the other shoe off and ran into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Prince walked slowly to the top of the steps and picked up the discarded slipper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held it. The light glittered off its facets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax leaned against the wall in the shadows. All stories had a turning point, and it had to be close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was good at getting into other people's minds, but now she had to get into hers. She concentrated. Down deeper... past everyday thoughts and minor concerns, faster, faster... through layers of deep cogitation... deeper... past things sealed off and crusted over, old guilts and congealed regrets, but there was no time for them now... down... and there... the silver thread of the story. She'd been part of it, was part of it, so it had to be a part of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It poured past. She reached out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hated everything that predestined people, that fooled them, that made them slightly less than human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The story whipped along like a steel hawser. She gripped it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes opened in shock. Then she stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, Your Highness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She snatched the shoe from the Duc's hands, and raised it over her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her expression of evil satisfaction was terrible to behold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she dropped the shoe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It smashed on the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thousand glittering fragments scattered across the marble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Coiled as it was around the length of turtle-shaped space-time known as the Discworld, the story shook. One broken end flapped loose and flailed through the night, trying to find any sequence to feed on...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the clearing the trees moved. So did the shadows. Shadows shouldn't be able to move unless the light moves. These did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drumming stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the silence there was the occasional sizzle as power crackled across the hanging coat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday stepped forward. Green sparks flew out to his hands as he gripped the jacket and put it on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His body jerked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Erzulie Gogol breathed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are here," she said. "You are still yourself. You are exactly yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday raised his hands, with his fists clenched. Occasionally an arm or leg would jerk as the power inside him squirrel-caged around in its search for freedom, but she could see that he was riding it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It will become easier," she said, more gently now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With the power flowing inside him he had, she thought, the fire he'd had when he was alive. He had not been a particularly good man, she knew. Genua had not been a model of civic virtue. But at least he'd never told people that they wanted him to oppress them, and that everything he did was for their own good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Around the circle, the people of New Genua - the old New Genua - knelt or bowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hadn't been a kind ruler. But he'd fitted. And when he'd been arbitrary or arrogant or just plain wrong, he'd never suggested that this was justified by anything other than the fact that he was bigger and stronger and occasionally nastier than other people. He'd never suggested that it was because he was better. And he'd never told people they ought to be happy, and imposed a kind of happiness on them. The invisible people knew that happiness is not the natural state of mankind, and is never achieved from the outside in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday nodded again, this time in satisfaction. When he opened his mouth, sparks flashed between his teeth. And when he waded through the swamp, the alligators fought to get out of his way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was quiet in the palace kitchens now. The huge trays of roast meat, the pigs' heads with apples in their mouths, the multi-layered trifles had long ago been carried upstairs. There was a clattering from the giant sinks at the far end, where some of the maids were making a start on the washing up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant the cook had made herself a plate of red stripefish in crawfish sauce. She wasn't the finest cook in Genua - no-one got near Mrs Gogol's gumbo, people would almost come back from the dead for a taste of Mrs Gogol's gumbo - but the comparison was as narrow as that between, say, diamonds and sapphires. She'd done her best to cook up a good banquet, because she had her professional pride, but there wasn't much she felt she was able to do with lumps of meat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Genuan cooking, like the best cooking everywhere in the multiverse, had been evolved by people who had to make desperate use of ingredients their masters didn't want. No-one would even try a bird's nest unless they had to. Only hunger would make a man taste his first alligator. No-one would eat a shark's fin if they were allowed to eat the rest of the shark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She poured herself a rum and was just picking up the spoon when she felt herself being watched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A large man in a black leather doublet was staring at her from the doorway, dangling a ginger cat mask from one hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a very direct stare. Mrs Pleasant found herself wishing she'd done something about her hair and was wearing a better dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" she said. "What d'you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Waaant foood, Miss-uss Pleassunt," said Greebo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked him up and down. There were some odd types in Genua these days. This one must have been a guest at the ball, but there was something very...familiar about him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo wasn't a happy cat. People had made a fuss just because he'd dragged a roast turkey off the table. Then the skinny female with the teeth had kept simpering at him and saying she'd see him later in the rose garden, which wasn't at all the cat way of doing things, and that'd got him confused, because this wasn't the right kind of body and nor was hers. And there were too many other males around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he'd smelled the kitchen. Cats gravitate to kitchens like rocks gravitate to gravity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I seen you somewhere before?" said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo said nothing. He'd followed his nose to a bowl on one of the big tables.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Waaant," he demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fish heads?" said Mrs Pleasant. They were technically garbage, although what she was planning with some rice and a few special sauces would turn them into the sort of dish kings fight for.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Waant," Greebo repeated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want raw fish heads, man, you take ‘em," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo lifted the bowl uncertainly. He wasn't too good with fingers. Then he looked around conspiratorially and ducked under the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were the sounds of keen gurgitation and the bowl being scraped around on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo emerged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Millluk?" he suggested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fascinated, Mrs Pleasant reached for the milk jug and a cup-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saaaaucerrr," Greebo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- and a saucer.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo took the saucer, gave it a long hard look, and put it on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant stared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo finished the milk, licking the remnant off his beard. He felt a lot better now. And there was a big fire over there. He padded over to it, sat down, spat on his paw and made an attempt to clean his ears, which didn't work because inexplicably neither ears nor paw were the right shape, and then curled up as best he could. Which wasn't very well, given that he seemed to have the wrong sort of backbone, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while Mrs Pleasant heard a low, asthmatic rumble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo was trying to purr.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had the wrong kind of throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a minute he was going to wake up in a bad temper and want to fight something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant got on with her own supper. Despite the fact that a hulking great man had just eaten a bowl offish heads and lapped a saucer of milk in front of her, and was now stretched out uncomfortably in front of the fire, she found she didn't feel the least bit afraid. In fact she was fighting down an impulse to scratch his tummy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat wrenched off the other slipper as she ran down the long red carpet towards the palace gateway and freedom. Just getting away, that was the important thing. From was more urgent than to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then two figures drifted out of the shadows and faced her. She raised the slipper pathetically as they approached in absolute silence, but even in the twilight she could feel their gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The crowds parted. Lily Weatherwax glided through, in a rustle of silk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked Granny up and down, without any expression of surprise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All in white, too," she said, dryly. "My word, aren't you the nice one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I've stopped you," said Granny, still panting with the effort. "I've broken it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax looked past her. The snake sisters were coming up the steps, holding a limp Magrat between them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Save us all from people who think literally," said Lily. "The damn things come in pairs, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She crossed to Magrat and snatched the second slipper out of her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The clock was interesting," she said, turning back to Granny. "I was impressed with the clock. But it's no good, you know. You can't stop this sort of thing. It has the momentum of inevitability. You can't spoil a good story. I should know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She handed the slipper to the Prince, but without taking her eyes off Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'll fit her," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two of the courtiers held Magrat's leg as the Prince wrestled the slipper past her protesting toes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There," said Lily, still without looking down. "And do stop trying that hedge-witch hypnotism on me, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It fits," said the Prince, but in a doubtful tone of voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, anything would fit," said a cheerful voice from somewhere towards the back of the crowd, "if you were allowed to put two pairs of hairy socks on first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily looked down. Then she looked at Magrat's mask. She reached out and pulled it off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ow!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrong girl," said Lily. "But it still doesn't matter, Esme, because it is the right slipper. So all we have to do is find the girl whose foot it fits - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a commotion at the back of the crowd. Courtiers parted, revealing Nanny Ogg, oil-covered and hung with spider webs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it's a five-and-a-half narrow fit, I'm your man," she said. "Just let me get these boots off..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't referring to you, old woman," said Lily coldly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes you was," said Nanny. "We know how this bit goes, see. The Prince goes all round the city with the slipper, trying to find the girl whose foot fits. That's what you was plannin'. So I can save you a bit of trouble, how about it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a flicker of uncertainty in Lily's expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A girl," she said, "of marriageable age."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No problem there," said Nanny cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dwarf Casanunda nudged a courtier proudly in the knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a very close personal friend of mine," he said proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily looked at her sister.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're doing this. Don't think I don't know," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't doing a thing," said Granny. "It's real life happening all by itself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny grabbed the slipper out of the Prince's hands and, before anyone else could move, slid it on to her foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she waggled the foot in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a perfect fit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There!" she said. "See? You could have wasted the whole day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Especially because there must be hundreds of five-and-a-half-‘</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" - narrow fit - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" - narrow fit wearers in a city this size," Granny went on. "Unless, of course, you happened to sort of go to the right house right at the start. If you had, you know, a lucky guess?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But that'd be cheatin'," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nudged the Prince.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd just like to add," she said, "that I don't mind doin' all the waving and opening things and other royal stuff, but I draw the line at sleepin' in the same bed as sunny jim here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because he doesn't sleep in a bed," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, he sleeps in a pond," said Nanny. "We had a look. Just a great big indoor pond."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because he's a frog," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With flies all over the place in case he wakes up in the night and fancies a snack," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought so!" said Magrat, pulling herself out of the grip of the guards. "He had clammy hands!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lots of men have clammy hands," said Nanny. "But this one's got ‘em because he's a frog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a prince of blood royal!" said the Prince.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And a frog," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't mind," said Casanunda, from somewhere down below. "I enjoy open relationships. If you want to go out with a frog, that's fine by me..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily looked around at the crowd. Then she snapped her fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was aware of a sudden silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked up at the people on either side of her. She waved a hand in front of a guard's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't do that for long," said Granny. "You can't stop a thousand people for long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily shrugged. "They're not important. Whoever will remember who was at the ball? They'll just remember the flight and the slipper and the happy ending."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've told you. You can't start it again. And he's a frog. Even you can't keep him in shape the whole day long. He turns back into his old shape at night. He's got a bedroom with a pond in it. He's a frog," said Granny flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But only inside," said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Inside's where it counts," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Outside's quite important, mind," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lots of people are animals inside. Lots of animals are people inside," said Lily. "Where's the harm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a frog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Especially at night," said Nanny. It had occurred to her that a husband who was a man all night and a frog all day might be almost acceptable; you wouldn't get the wage packet, but there'd be less wear and tear on the furniture. She also couldn't put out of her mind certain private speculations about the length of his tongue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you killed the Baron," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think he was a particularly nice man?" said Lily. "Besides, he didn't show me any respect. If you've got no respect, you've got nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny and Magrat found themselves looking at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a frog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I found him in the swamp," said Lily. "I could tell he was pretty bright. I needed someone... amenable to persuasion. Shouldn't frogs have a chance? He'll be no worse a husband than many. Just one kiss from a princess seals the spell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A lot of men are animals," said Magrat, who'd picked up the idea from somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. But he's a frog," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at it my way," said Lily. "You see this country? It's all swamps and fogs. There's no direction. But I can make this a great city. Not a sprawling place like Ankh-Morpork, but a place that works."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The girl doesn't want to marry a frog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What will that matter in a hundred years' time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It matters now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily threw up her hands. "What do you want, then? It's your choice. There's me... or there's that woman in the swamp. Light or dark. Fog or sunshine. Dark chaos or happy endings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a frog, and you killed the old Baron," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd have done the same," said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Granny. "I'd have thought the same, but I wouldn't have done it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What difference does that make, deep down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean you don't know?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at the three of you," she said. "Bursting with inefficient good intentions. The maiden, the mother and the crone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you calling a maiden?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you calling a mother?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax glowered briefly like the person who has discovered that there is only one straw left and everyone else has drawn a long one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, what shall I do with you?" said Lily. "I really am against killing people unless it's necessary, but I can't have you running around acting stupidly..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at her fingernails.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I think I shall have you put away somewhere until this has run its course. And then... can you guess what I'm going to do next?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to expect you to escape. Because, after all, I am the good one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella walked cautiously through the moonlit swamp, following the strutting shape of Legba. She was aware of movement in the water, but nothing emerged - bad news like Legba gets around, even among alligators.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An orange light appeared irrthe distance. It turned out to be Mrs Gogol's shack, or boat, or whatever it was. In the swamp, the difference between the water and the land was practically a matter of choice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hallo? Is there anyone there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come along in, child. Take a seat. Rest up a little."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella stepped cautiously on to the rocking veranda. Mrs Gogol was sitting in her chair, a white-clad raggedy doll in her lap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat said - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know all about it. Come to Erzulie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am your - friend, girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella moved so as to be ready to run.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not a godmother of any kind, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. No gods. Just a friend. Did anyone follow you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I... don't think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's no matter if they did, girl. No matter if they did. Maybe we ought to move out into the river for a spell, even so. We'll be a lot safer with water all round."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shack lurched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You better sit down. The feets make it shaky until we get into deep water."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella risked a look, nevertheless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Airs Gogol's hut travelled on four large duck feet, which were now rising out of the swamp. They splashed their way through the shallows and, gently, sculled out into the river.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo woke up and stretched.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the wrong sort of arms and legs!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant, who had been sitting watching him, put down her glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want to do now, Mr Cat?" she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo padded over to the door into the outside world and scratched at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Waant to go owwwt, Miss-uss Pleas-unt," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just have to turn the handle there," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo stared at the door handle like someone trying to come to terms with a piece of very advanced technology, and then gave her a pleading look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened the door for him, stood aside as he slunk out, and then shut it, locked it and leaned against it.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ember's bound to be safe with Mrs Gogol," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah!" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I quite liked her," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't trust anyone who drinks rum and smokes a pipe," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nanny Ogg smokes a pipe and drinks anything," Magrat pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but that's because she's a disgustin' old baggage," said Granny, without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg took her pipe out of her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," she said amiably. "You ain't nothing if you don't maintain an image."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked up from the lock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't shift it," she said. "It's octiron, too. Can't magic it open."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's daft, locking us up," said Nanny. "I'd have had us killed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's because you're basically good," said Magrat. "The good are innocent and create justice. The bad are guilty, which is why they invent mercy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I know why she's done this," said Granny, darkly. "It's so's we'll know we've lost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But she said we'd escape," said Magrat. "I don't understand. She must know the good ones always win in the end!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only in stories," said Granny, examining the door hinges. "And she thinks she's in charge of the stories. She bends them round herself. She thinks she's the good one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mind you," said Magrat, "I don't like swamps. If it wasn't for the frog and everything, I'd see Lily's point - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you're nothing but a daft godmother," snapped Granny, still fiddling with the lock. "You can't go around building a better world for people. Only people can build a better world for people. Otherwise it's just a cage. Besides, you don't build a better world by choppin' heads off and giving decent girls away to frogs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But progress - " Magrat began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you talk to me about progress. Progress just means bad things happen faster. Anyone got another hatpin? This one's useless."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny, who had Greebo's ability to make herself instantly at home wherever she happened to be, sat down in the corner of the cell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard this story once," she said, "where this bloke got locked up for years and years and he learned amazin' stuff about the universe and everythin' from another prisoner who was incredibly clever, and then he escaped and got his revenge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What incredibly clever stuff do you know about the universe, Gytha Ogg?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bugger all," said Nanny cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we'd better bloody well escape right now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny pulled a scrap of pasteboard out of her hat, found a scrap of pencil up there too, licked the end and thought for a while. Then she wrote: Dear Jason unt so witer (as they say in foreign parts),</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well here's a thing yore ole Mum doin Time in prison again, Im a old lag, youll have to send me a cake with a phial in it and I shall have little arrows on my close just my joke. This is a Sketch of the dunjon. Im putting a X where we are, which is Inside. Magrat is shown wering a posh dress, she has been acting like a Courgette. Also inc. Esme getting fed up becaus she can't get the lock to work but I expect it will all be OK because the good ones win in the end and that's US. And all because some girl don't want to marry a Prince who is a Duck who is really a Frog and I cant say I blame her, you don't want descendants who have got Jenes and start off living in a jamjar and then hop about and get squashed...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">She was interrupted by the sound of a mandolin being played quite well, right on the other side of the wall, and a small but determined voice raised in song.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" — si consuenti d'amoure, ventre dimo tondreturo-ooo - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How I hunger my love for the dining-room of your warm maceration," said Nanny, without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" - della della t'ozentro, audri t'dren vontarieeeeee - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The shop, the shop, I have a lozenge, the sky is pink," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny and Magrat looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" - guarunto del tart, bella pore di larientos - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rejoice, candlemaker, you have a great big - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't believe any of this," said Granny. "You're making it up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Word for word translation," said Nanny. "I can speak foreign like a native, you know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Ogg? Is that you, my love?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked up towards the barred window. There was a small face peering in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Casanunda?" said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's me, Mrs Ogg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My love," muttered Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you get up to the window?" said Nanny, ignoring this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always know where I can get my hands on a step-ladder, Mrs Ogg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you don't know where you can get your hands on a key?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't do any good. There's too many guards outside your door, Mrs Ogg. Even for a famous swordsman like me. Her ladyship gave strict orders. No-one's to listen to you or look at you, even."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How come you're in the palace guard, Casanunda?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soldier of fortune takes whatever jobs are going, Mrs Ogg," said Casanunda earnestly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But all the rest of ‘em are six foot tall and you're - of the shorter persuasion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I lied about my height, Mrs Ogg. I'm a world-famous liar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that true?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about you being the world's greatest lover?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence for a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe I'm only No. 2," said Casanunda. "But I try harder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you go and find us a file or something, Mr Casanunda?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll see what I can do, Miss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face disappeared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we could get people to visit us and then we could escape in their clothes?" said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now I've gone and stuck the pin in my finger," muttered Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or maybe we could get Magrat to seduce one of the guards," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't you?" said Magrat, as nastily as she could manage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. I'm game."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, the pair of you," said Granny. "I'm trying to think - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another sound at the window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Legba.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The black cockerel peered in between the bars for a moment, and then fluttered away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gives me the creeps, that one," said Nanny. "Can't look at him without thinking wistfully of sage-and-onion and mashed potatoes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her crinkled face crinkled further.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Greebo!" she said. "Where'd we leave him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, he's only a cat," said Granny Weatherwax. "Cats know how to look after themselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's really just a big softie - " Nanny began, before someone started pulling down the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hole appeared. A grey hand appeared and grasped another stone. There was a strong smell of river mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rock crumbled under heavy fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ladies?" said a resonant voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Mister Saturday," said Nanny, "as I live and breathe - saving your presence, o'course."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday grunted something and walked away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a hammering on the door and someone started fumbling with keys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't want to hang around here," said Granny. "Come on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They helped one another out through the hole.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday was on the other side of a small courtyard, striding towards the sound of the ball.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was something behind him, trailing out like the tail of a comet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Gogol's doing," said Granny Weatherwax grimly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind Saturday, widening as it snaked through the palace grounds to the gate, was a stream of deeper darkness in the air. At first sight it seemed to contain shapes, but closer inspection indicated that they weren't shapes at all but a mere suggestion of shapes, forming and reforming. Eyes gleamed momentarily in the swirl. There was the cluttering of crickets and the whine of mosquitoes, the smell of moss and the stink of river mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the swamp," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the idea of the swamp," said Granny. "It's what you have to have first, before you have the swamp."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, dear," said Nanny. She shrugged. "Well, Ella's got away and so have we, so this is the part where we escape, yes? That's what we're supposed to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">None of them moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They aren't very nice people in there," said Magrat, after a while, "but they don't deserve alligators."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You witches stand right there," said a voice behind them. Half a dozen guards were crowded around the hole in the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Life's certainly busier in the city," said Nanny, pulling another hatpin from her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got crossbows," warned Magrat. "There's not much you can do against crossbows. Projectile weapons is Lesson Seven and I haven't had that yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They can't pull triggers if they think they've got flippers," said Granny menacingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now," said Nanny, "let's not have any of that, eh? Everyone knows the good ones always win specially when they're outnumbered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guards emerged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As they did so a tall black shape dropped noiselessly from the wall behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There," said Nanny, "I said he wouldn't go far from his mummy, didn't I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One or two of the guards realized that she was staring proudly past them, and turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As far as they were concerned, they confronted a tall, broad-shouldered man with a mane of black hair, an eyepatch and a very wide grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood with his arms casually folded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waited until he had their full attention, and then Greebo let his lips part slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several of the men took a step backwards then.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of them said, "Why worry? It's not as if he's got a weap - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo raised one hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Claws make no noise as they slide out, but they ought to. They ought to make a noise like ‘tzing'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's grin widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah! These still worked...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the men was bright enough to raise his crossbow but stupid enough to do it with Nanny Ogg standing behind him with a hatpin. Her hand moved so swiftly that any wisdom-seeking saffron-clad youth would have started the Way of Mrs Ogg there and then. The man screamed and dropped the bow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wrowwwl..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo leapt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cats are like witches. They don't fight to kill, but to win. There is a difference. There's no point in killing an opponent. That way, they won't know they've lost, and to be a real winner you have to have an opponent who is beaten and knows it. There's no triumph over a corpse, but a beaten opponent, who will remain beaten every day of the remainder of their sad and wretched life, is something to treasure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cats do not, of course, rationalize this far. They just like to send someone limping off minus a tail and a few square inches of fur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's technique was unscientific and wouldn't have stood a chance against any decent swordsmanship, but on his side was the fact that it is almost impossible to develop decent swordsmanship when you seem to have run into a food mixer that is biting your ear off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches watched with interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we can leave him now," said Nanny. "I think he's having fun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They hurried towards the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The orchestra was in the middle of a complicated number when the lead violinist happened to glance towards the door, and then dropped his bow. The cellist turned to see what had caused this, followed his colleague's fixed stare, and in a moment of confusion tried to play his instrument backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a succession of squeaks and flats, the orchestra stopped playing. The dancers continued for a while out of sheer momentum, and then stopped and milled about in confusion. And then, one by one, they too looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday stood at the top of the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the silence came the drumming, making the music that had gone before seem as insignificant as the cluttering of crickets. This was the real blood music; every other music that had ever been written was merely a pitiful attempt to sing along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It poured into the room, and with it came the heat and the warm, vegetable smell of the swamp. There was a suggestion of alligator in the air - not the presence of them, but the promise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drumming grew louder. There were complex counter-rhythms, much more felt than heard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday brushed a speck of dust off the shoulder of his ancient coat, and reached out an arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall hat appeared in his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out his other hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The black cane with the silver top whirred out of the empty air and was snatched up triumphantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put the hat on his head. He twirled the cane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drums rolled. Except that... maybe it wasn't drums now, maybe it was a beat in the floor itself, or in the walls, or in the air. It was fast and hot and people in the hall found their feet moving of their own accord, because the drumming seemed to reach the toes via the hindbrain without ever passing near the ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday's feet moved too. They beat out their own staccato rhythms on the marble floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He danced down the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He whirled. He leapt. The tails of his coat whipped through the air. And then he landed at the foot of the step, his feet striking the ground like the thud of doom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And only now was there a stirring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a croak from the Prince.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be him! He's dead! Guards! Kill him!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around madly at the guards by the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guard captain went pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I, uh, again? I mean, I don't think..." he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do it now!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The captain raised his crossbow nervously. The point of the bolt wove figures-of-eight in front of his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said do it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bow twanged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a thud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saturday looked down at the feathers buried in his chest, and then grinned and raised his cane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The captain looked up with the certain terror of death in his face. He dropped his bow and turned to run, and managed two steps before he toppled forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said a voice behind the Prince. "This is how you kill a dead man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax stepped forward, her face white with fury.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't belong here any more," she hissed. "You're not part of the story."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She raised a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind her, the ghost images suddenly focused on her, so that she became more iridescent. Silver fire leapt across the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baron Saturday thrust out his cane. The magic struck, and coursed down him to earth, leaving little silver trails that crackled for a while and then winked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, ma'am," he said, "there ain't no way to kill a dead man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three witches watched from the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I felt that," said Nanny. "It should have blown him to bits!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blown what to bits?" said Granny. "The swamp? The river? The world? He's all of them! Ooh, she's a clever one, that Mrs Gogol!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Magrat. "What do you mean, all of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily backed away. She raised her hand again and sent another fireball towards the Baron. It hit his hat and burst off it like a firework.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stupid, stupid!" muttered Granny. "She's seen it doesn't work and she's still trying it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you weren't on her side," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I ain't! But I don't like to see people being stupid. That kind of stuff's no use, Magrat Garlick, even you can... oh, no, surely not again..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Baron laughed as a third attempt earthed itself harmlessly. Then he raised his cane. Two courtiers tumbled forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax, still backing away, came up against the foot of the main staircase.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Baron strolled forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to try anything else, lady?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily raised both hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All three witches felt it - the terrible suction as she tried to concentrate all the power in the vicinity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Outside, the one guard remaining upright found that he was no longer fighting a man but merely an enraged tomcat, although this was no consolation. It just meant that Greebo had an extra pair of claws.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Prince screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a long, descending scream, and ended in a croak, somewhere around ground level.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baron Saturday took one heavy, deliberate step forward, and there was no more croak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The drums stopped abruptly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then there was a real silence, broken only by the swish of Lily's dress as she fled up the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice behind the witches said, "Thank you, ladies. Could you step aside, please?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked around. Mrs Gogol was there, holding Embers by the hand. She had a fat, gaily-embroidered bag over her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All three watched as the voodoo woman led the girl down into the hall and through the silent crowds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not right either," said Granny under her breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" said Magrat. "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baron Saturday thumped his stick on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know me," he said. "You all know me. You know I was killed. And now here I am. I was murdered and what did you do -?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How much did you do, Mrs Gogol?" muttered Granny. "No, we ain't having this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ssh, I can't hear what he's saying," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's telling them they can have him ruling them again, or Embers," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll have Mrs Gogol," muttered Granny. "She'll be one o' them eminences greases."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, she's not too bad," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the swamp she's not too bad," said Granny. "With someone to balance her up she's not too bad. But Mrs Gogol tellin' a whole city what to do... that's not right. Magic's far too important to be used for rulin' people. Anyway, Lily only had people killed - Mrs Gogol'd set ‘em to choppin' wood and doin' chores afterwards. I reckon, after you've had a busy life, you ort to be able to relax a bit when you're dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lie back and enjoy it, sort of thing," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down at the white dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wish I had my old clothes on," she said. "Black's the proper colour for a witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She strode down the steps, and then cupped her hands around her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Coo-ee! Mrs Gogol!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baron Saturday stopped speaking. Mrs Gogol nodded at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Miss Weatherwax?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mistress," snapped Granny, and then softened her voice again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This ain't right, you know. She's the one who ought to rule, fair enough. And you used magic to help her this far, and that's all right. But it stops right here. It's up to her what happens next. You can't make things right by magic. You can only stop making them wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol pulled herself up to her full, impressive height. "Who's you to say what I can and can't do here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're her godmothers," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got a wand, too," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you hate godmothers, Mistress Weatherwax," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're the other kind," said Granny. "We're the kind that gives people what they know they really need, not what we think they ought to want."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Among the fascinated crowd several pairs of lips moved as people worked this out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you've done your godmothering," said Mrs Gogol, who thought faster than most. "You did it very well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't listen," said Granny. "There's all sorts of things to godmotherin'. She might be quite good at ruling. She might be bad at it. But she's got to find out for herself. With no interference from anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What if I say no?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I expect we'll just have to go on godmotherin'," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know how long I worked to win?" said Mrs Gogol, haughtily. "Do you know what I lost?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now you've won, and there's the end of it," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you looking to challenge me, Mistress Weatherwax?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hesitated, and then straightened her shoulders. Her arms moved away from her sides, almost imperceptibly. Nanny and Magrat moved away slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If that's what you want."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My voodoo against your... headology?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what's the stake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No more magic in the affairs of Genua," said Granny. "No more stories. No more godmothers. Just people, deciding for themselves. For good or bad. Right or wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you leave Lily Weatherwax to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol's intake of breath was heard around the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?" said Granny. "You don't think you're going to lose, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want to hurt you, Mistress Weatherwax," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's good," said Granny. "I don't want you to hurt me either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want there to be any fighting," said Ella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's the ruler now, ain't she?" said Granny. "We've got to listen to what she says."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll keep out of the city," said Mrs Gogol, ignoring her, "but Lilith is mine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol reached into her bag, and flourished the raggedy doll. "See this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I do," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was going to be her. Don't let it be you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Mrs Gogol," said Granny firmly, "but I see my duty plain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a clever woman, Mistress Weatherwax. But you're a long way from home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shrugged. Mrs Gogol held up the doll by its waist. It had sapphire blue eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know about magic with mirrors? This is my kind of mirror, Mistress Weatherwax. I can make it be you. And then I can make it suffer. Don't make me do that. Please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please yourself, Mrs Gogol. But I'll deal with Lily."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I should box a bit clever if I was you, Esme," muttered Nanny Ogg. "She's good at this sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think she could be very ruthless," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got nothing but the greatest respect for Mrs Gogol," said Granny. "A fine woman. But talks a bit too much. If I was her, I'd have had a couple of big nails right through that thing by now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You would, too," said Nanny. "It's a good thing you're good, ain't it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," said Granny, raising her voice again. "I'm going to find my sister, Mrs Gogol. This is family."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked steadfastly towards the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat took out the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If she does anything bad to Granny, she's going to go through the rest of her life bright orange and round, with seeds in," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think Esme would like it if you did something like that," said Nanny. "Don't worry. She doesn't believe all that stuff about pins and dolls."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She doesn't believe anything. But that doesn't matter!" said Magrat. "Mrs Gogol does! It's her power! It's what she thinks that matters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you reckon Esme knows that too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax reached the foot of the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mistress Weatherwax!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol had a long sliver of wood in her hand. Shaking her head desperately, she jabbed it into the doll's foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone saw Esme Weatherwax wince.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another sliver was thrust into a raggedy arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slowly, Granny raised her other hand and shuddered when she touched her sleeve. Then, limping slightly, she continued to climb the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can do the heart next. Mistress Weatherwax!" shouted Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you can. You're good at it. You know you're good at it," said Granny, without looking around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol stuck another sliver into a leg. Granny sagged, and clutched at the banister. Beside her, one of the big torches flamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Next time!" said Mrs Gogol. "Right? Next time. I can do it!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at the hundreds of upturned faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When she spoke, her voice was so quiet that they had to strain to hear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you can too, Mrs Gogol. You really believe. Just remind me again- we're playin' for Lily, right? And for the city?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does that matter now?" said Mrs Gogol. "Ain't you going to give in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax thrust a little finger into her ear and wiggled it thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she said. "No, I don't reckon that's what I do now. Are you watchin', Mrs Gogol? Are you watchin' real close?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her gaze travelled the room and rested for just a fraction of a second on Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she reached over, carefully, and thrust her arm up to the elbow into the burning torch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the doll in Erzulie Gogol's hands burst into flame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It went on blazing even after the witch had screamed and dropped it on to the floor. It went on burning until Nanny Ogg ambled over with a jug of fruit juice from the buffet, whistling between her teeth, and put it out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny withdrew her hand. It was unscathed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's headology," she said. "It's the only thing that matters. Everything else is just messin' about. Hope I didn't hurt you, Mrs Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went on up the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol kept on staring at the damp ashes. Nanny Ogg patted her companionably on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did she do that?" said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She didn't. She let you do it," said Nanny. "You got to watch yourself around Esme Weatherwax. I'd like to see one of them Zen buggers come up against her one day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And she's the good one?" said Baron Saturday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," said Nanny. "Funny how things work out, really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked thoughtfully at the empty fruit juice jug in her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What this needs," she said, in the manner of one reaching a conclusion after much careful consideration, "is some bananas and rum and stuff in it - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat grabbed her dress as Nanny strode determinedly dak'rywards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not now," she said. "We'd better get after Granny! She might need us!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shouldn't think so for one minute," said Nanny. "I wouldn't like to be in Lily's shoes when Esme catches up with her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I've never seen Granny so agitated," said Magrat. "Anything could happen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good job if it does," said Nanny. She nodded meaningfully at a flunkey who, being quick on the uptake, leapt to attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But she might do something - dreadful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good. She's always wanted to," said Nanny. "Another banana dak'ry, mahatma coat, chopchop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. It wouldn't be a good idea," Magrat persisted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right," said Nanny. She handed the empty jug to Baron Saturday, who took it in a kind of hypnotic daze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're just going to sort things out," she said. "Sorry about this. On with the motley... if anyone's got any left."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the witches had gone Mrs Gogol reached down and picked up the damp remains of the doll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One or two people coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that it?" said the Baron. "After twelve years?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Prince is dead," said Mrs Gogol. "Such as he was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you promised that I would be revenged on her," the Baron said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think there will be revenge," said Mrs Gogol. She tossed the doll on to the floor. "Lilith has been fighting me for twelve years and she never got through. This one didn't even have to sweat. So I think there will be revenge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to keep your word!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do. I've got to keep something." Mrs Gogol put her arm around Ella's shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is it, girl," she said. "Your palace. Your city. There isn't a person here who will deny it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glared at the guests. One or two of them stepped backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella looked up at Saturday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I feel I should know you," she said. She turned to Mrs Gogol. "And you," she added. "I've seen you both... before. A long time ago?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baron Saturday opened his mouth to speak. Mrs Gogol held up her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We promised," she said. "No interference."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not from us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not even from us." She turned back to Ella. "We're just people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean..." said Ella, "I've slaved in a kitchen for years... and now... I'm supposed to rule the city? Just like that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's how it goes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella looked down, deep in thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And anything I say people have to do?" she said innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a few nervous coughs from the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Mrs Gogol.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ella stood looking down at the floor, idly biting a thumbnail. Then she looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then the first thing that's going to happen is the end of the ball. Right now! I'm going to find the carnival. I've always wanted to dance in the carnival." She looked around at the worried faces. "It's not compulsory for anyone else to come," she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nobles of Genua had enough experience to know what it means when a ruler says something is not compulsory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Within minutes the hall was empty, except for three figures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But... but... I wanted revenge," said the Baron. "I wanted death. I wanted our daughter in power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TWO OUT OF THREE ISN'T BAD.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol and the Baron turned around. Death put down his drink and stepped forward. Baron Saturday straightened up. "I am ready to go with you," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death shrugged. Ready or not, he seemed to indicate, was all the same to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I held you off," the Baron added. "For twelve years!" He put his arm around Erzulie's shoulders. "When they killed me and threw me in the river, we stole life from you!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU STOPPED LIVING. YOU NEVER DIED. I DID NOT COME FOR YOU THEN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAD AN APPOINTMENT WITH YOU TONIGHT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Baron handed his cane to Mrs Gogol. He removed the tall black hat. He shrugged off the coat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Power crackled in its folds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No more Baron Saturday," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">PERHAPS. IT'S A NICE HAT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Baron turned to Erzulie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I have to go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What will you do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voodoo woman looked down at the hat in her hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will go back to the swamp," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could stay here. I don't trust that foreign witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do. So I will go back to the swamp. Because some stories have to end. Whatever Ella becomes, she'll have to make it herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a short walk to the brown, heavy waters of the river.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Baron paused at the edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will she live happily ever after?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOT FOREVER. BUT PERHAPS FOR LONG ENOUGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And so stories end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wicked witch is defeated, the ragged princess comes into her own, the kingdom is restored. Happy days are here again. Happy ever after. Which means that life stops here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stories want to end. They don't care what happens next...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg panted along a corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never seen Esme like that before," she said. "She's in a very funny mood. She could be a danger to herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a danger to everyone else," said Magrat. "She - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snake women stepped out into the passageway ahead of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at it like this," said Nanny, under her breath, "what can they do to us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't stand snakes," said Magrat quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've got those teeth, of course," said Nanny, as if conducting a seminar. "More like fangs, really. Come on, girl. Let's see if we can find another way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hate them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tugged at Magrat, who did not move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I really hate them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll be able to hate them even better from a long way off !"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sisters were nearly on them. They didn't walk, they glided. Perhaps Lily wasn't concentrating now, because they were more snake-like than ever. Nanny thought she could see scale patterns under the skin. The jawline was all wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the sisters reached out. Magrat shuddered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snake sister opened its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Magrat looked up and, almost dreamily, punched it so hard that it was carried several feet along the passage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a blow that featured in any Way or Path. No-one ever drew this one as a diagram or practised it in front of a mirror with a bandage tied round their head. It was straight out of the lexicon of inherited, terrified survival reflexes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Use the wand!" shouted Nanny, darting forward. "Don't ninj at them! Use the wand! That's what it's for!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other snake instinctively turned to follow the movement, which is why instinct is not always the keynote to survival, because Magrat clubbed it on the back of the head. With the wand. It sagged, losing shape as it fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trouble with witches is that they'll never run away from things they really hate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the trouble with small furry animals in a corner is that, just occasionally, one of them's a mongoose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had always wondered: what was supposed to be so special about a full moon? It was only a big circle of light. And the dark of the moon was only darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But half-way between the two, when the moon was between the worlds of light and dark, when even the moon lived on the edge... maybe then a witch could believe in the moon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now a half-moon sailed above the mists of the swamp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily's nest of mirrors reflected the cold light, as they reflected everything else. Leaning against the wall were the three broom-sticks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked up hers. She wasn't wearing the right colour and she wasn't wearing a hat; she needed something she was at home with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lily?" said Granny softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her own image looked out at her from the mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can all stop now," said Granny. "You could take my stick and I'll take Magrat's. She can always share with Gytha. And Mrs Gogol won't come after you. I've fixed that. And we could do with more witches back home. And no more godmothering. No more getting people killed so their daughters are ready to be in a story. I know that's why you did it. Come on home. It's an offer you can't refuse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mirror slid back noiselessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're trying to be kind to me?" said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't think it don't take a lot of effort," said Granny in a more normal voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily's dress rustled in the darkness as she stepped out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So," she said, "you beat the swamp woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're here instead of her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily took the stick out of Granny's hands, and inspected it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never used one of these things," she said. "You just sit on it and away you go?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With this one you have to be running quite fast before it takes off," said Granny, "but that's the general idea, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm. Do you know the symbology of the broomstick?" said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it anything to do with maypoles and folksongs and suchlike?" said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I don't want to hear about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Lily. "I imagine you don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She handed the stick back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm staying here," she said. "Mrs Gogol may have come up with a new trick, but that doesn't mean she has won."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Things have come to an end, see," said Granny. "That's how it works when you turn the world into stories. You should never have done that. You shouldn't turn the world into stories. You shouldn't treat people like they was characters, like they was things. But if you do, then you've got to know when the story ends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to put on your red-hot shoes and dance the night away?" said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Somethin' like that, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"While everyone else lives happily ever after?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know about that," said Granny. "That's up to them. What I'm sayin' is, you're not allowed to go round one more time. You've lost."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know a Weatherwax never loses," said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One of ‘em learns tonight," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we're outside the stories," said Lily. "Me because I... am the medium through which they happen, and you because you fight them. We're the ones in the middle. The free ones –"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sound behind them. The faces of Magrat and Nanny Ogg appeared over the top of the stairwell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need any help, Esme?" said Nanny cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here's your little snakes, Esme."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," she added, "you're really just like me. Don't you know that? There isn't a thought that's gone through my head that you haven't thought, too. There isn't a deed I've done that you haven't contemplated. But you never found the courage. That's the difference between people like me and people like you. We have the courage to do what you only dream of."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes?" said Granny. "Is that what you think? You think I dream?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily moved a finger. Magrat floated up out of the stairwell, struggling. She waved her wand frantically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I like to see," said Lily. "People wishing. I never wished for anything in my life. I always made things happen. So much more rewarding."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat gritted her teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure I wouldn't look good as a pumpkin, dear," said Lily. She waved a hand airily. Magrat rose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd be surprised at the things I can do," said Lily dreamily, as the younger witch drifted smoothly over the flagstones. "You should have tried mirrors yourself, Esme. It does wonders for a soul. I only let the swamp woman survive because her hate was invigorating. I do like being hated, you know. And you do know. It's a kind of respect. It shows you're having an effect. It's like a cold bath on a hot day. When stupid people find themselves powerless, when they fume in their futility, when they're beaten and they've got nothing but that yawning in the acid pit of their stomachs - well, to be honest, it's like a prayer. And the stories... to ride on stories... to borrow the strength of them... the comfort of them... to be in the hidden centre of them... Can you understand that? The sheer pleasure of seeing the patterns repeat themselves? I've always loved a pattern. Incidentally, if the Ogg woman continues to try to sneak up behind me I shall really let your young friend drift out over the courtyard and then, Esme, I might just lose interest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was just walkin' about," said Nanny. "No law against it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You changed the story your way, and now I'm going to do it mine," said Lily. "And once again... all you have to do is go. Just go away. What happens here doesn't matter. It's a city far away of which you know little. I'm not totally certain I could out-trick you," she added, "but these two... they haven't got the right stuff in them. I could make jam of them. I hope you know that. So tonight, I suggest, a Weatherwax learns to lose?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stood silent for a while, leaning on her useless broom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right. Put her down," she said. "And then I'll say you've won."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wish I could believe that," said Lily. "Oh... but you're the nice one, aren't you? You have to keep your word."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Watch me," said Granny. She walked to the parapet and looked down. The two-faced moon was still bright enough to illuminate the billowing fogs that surrounded the palace like a sea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magrat? Gytha?" she said. "Sorry about this. You've won, Lily. There ain't nothing I can do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She jumped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg rushed forward and stared over the edge, just in time to see a dim figure vanish in the mists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All three figures left on the tower took a deep breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a trick," said Lily, "to get me off guard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It isn't!" screamed Magrat, dropping to the stones.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She had her broomstick," said Lily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It don't work! It won't start!" shouted Nanny. "Right," she said, menacingly, striding towards the slim shape of Lily. "We'll soon wipe that smug look off your face - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She halted as silver pain shot through her body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's true, then?" she said. "Yes. I can see it in your faces. Esme was bright enough to know she couldn't win. Don't be stupid. And don't point that silly wand at me, Miss Garlick. Old Desiderata would have defeated me long ago if she could. People have no understanding."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We ought to go down there," said Magrat. "She might be lying there - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's it. Be good. It's what you're good at," said Lily, as they ran to the stairwell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we'll be back," snarled Nanny Ogg. "Even if we have to live in the swamp with Mrs Gogol and eat snakes' heads!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course," said Lily, arching an eyebrow. "That's what I said. One needs people like you around. Otherwise one is never quite sure one is still working. It's a way of keeping score."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched them disappear down the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A wind blew over the tower. Lily gathered up her skirts and walked to the end, where she could see the shreds of mist streaming over the rooftops far below. There were the faint strains of music from the distant carnival dance as it wound its way through the streets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would soon be midnight. Proper midnight, not some cut-price version caused by an old woman crawling around in a clock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily tried to see through the murk to the bottom of the tower.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Really, Esme," she murmured, "you did take losing hard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny reached out and restrained Magrat as they ran down the spiral stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Slow down a bit, I should," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But she could be hurt -!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So could you, if you trip. Anyway," said Nanny, "I don't reckon Esme is lyin' in a crumpled heap somewhere. That's not the way she'd go. I reckon she did it just to make sure Lily forgot about us and wouldn't try anything on us. I reckon she thought we were - what was that Tsortean bloke who could only be wounded if you hit ‘im in the right place? No-one ever beat ‘im until they found out about it. His knee, I think it was. We're her Tsortean knee, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we know you have to run really fast to get her broomstick going!" shouted Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I know," said Nanny. "That's what I thought. And now I'm thinking... how fast do you go when you're dropping? I mean, straight down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I... don't know," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon Esme thought it was worth findin' out," said Nanny. "That's what I reckon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure appeared around the bend in the stairs, plodding upwards. They stood aside politely to let it pass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wish I could remember what bit of him you had to hit," Nanny said. "That's going to be nagging at me all night, now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE HEEL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right? Oh, thanks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ANY TIME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure continued onwards and upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He had a good mask on, didn't he," said Magrat, eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She and Nanny sought confirmation in each other's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat went pale. She looked up the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think we should run back up and - " she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was much older. "I think we should walk," she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Lady Volentia D'Arrangement sat in the rose garden under the big tower and blew her nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd been waiting for half an hour and she'd had enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd hoped for a romantic tete-a-tete: he'd seemed such a nice man, sort of eager and shy at the same time. Instead, she'd nearly been hit on the head when an old woman on a broom and wearing what looked, as far as she could see through the blur of speed, like Lady Volentia's own dress, had screamed down out of the mist. Her boots had ploughed through the roses before the curve of her flight took her up again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And some filthy smelly tomcat kept brushing up against her legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it had started off as such a nice evening...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">" ‘ullo, your Ladyship?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around at the bushes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My name's Casanunda," said a hopeful voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax turned when she heard the tinkle of glass from within the maze of mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her brow wrinkled. She ran across the flagstones and opened the door into the mirror world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound but the rustle of her dress and the soft hiss of her own breathing. She glided into the place between the mirrors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her myriad selves looked back at her approvingly. She relaxed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then her foot struck something. She looked down and saw on the flagstones, black in the moonlight, a broomstick lying in shards of broken glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her horrified gaze rose to meet a reflection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It glared back at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's the pleasure in bein' the winner if the loser ain't alive to know they've lost?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lilith backed away, her mouth opening and shutting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stepped through the empty frame. Lily looked down, beyond her avenging sister.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You broke my mirror!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was this what it was all for, then?" said Granny." Playin' little queens in some damp city? Serving stories? What sort of power is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't understand... you've broken the mirror..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They say you shouldn't do it," said Granny. "But I reckoned: what's another seven years' bad luck?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Image after image shatters, all the way around the great curve of the mirror world, the crack flying out faster than light...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have to break both to be safe... you've upset the balance..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hah! I did?" Granny stepped forward, her eyes two sapphires of bitterness. "I'm goin' to give you the hidin' our Mam never gave you, Lily Weatherwax. Not with magic, not with headology, not with a stick like our Dad had, aye, and used a fair bit as I recall - but with skin. And not because you was the bad one. Not because you meddled with stories. Everyone has a path they got to tread. But because, and I wants you to understand this prop'ly, after you went I had to be the good one. You had all the fun. An' there's no way I can make you pay for that, Lily, but I'm surely goin' to give it a try..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But... I... I... I'm the good one," Lily murmured, her face pale with shock. "I'm the good one. I can't lose. I'm the godmother. You're the wicked witch... and you've broken the mirror..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... moving like a comet, the crack in the mirrors reaches its furthest point and curves back, speeding down the countless worlds...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to help me put... the images must be balanced..." Lily murmured faintly, backing up against the remaining glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good? Good? Feeding people to stories? Twisting people's lives? That's good, is it?" said Granny. "You mean you didn't even have fun? If I'd been as bad as you, I'd have been a whole lot worse. Better at it than you've ever dreamed of."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She drew back her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... the crack returned towards its point of origin, carrying with it the fleeing reflections of all the mirrors...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glass smashed and crazed behind Lily Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And in the mirror, the image of Lily Weatherwax turned around, smiled beatifically, and reached out of the frame to take Lily Weatherwax into its arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lily!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All the mirrors shattered, exploding outwards in a thousand pieces from the top of the tower so that, just for a moment, it was wreathed in twinkling fairy dust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg and Magrat came up onto the roof like avenging angels after a period of lax celestial quality control.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Where the maze of mirrors had been were empty frames. Glass shards covered the floor and, lying on them, was a figure in a white dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny pushed Magrat behind her and crunched forward cautiously. She prodded the figure with the toe of her boot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's throw her off the tower," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right," said Nanny. "Do it, then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat hesitated. "Well," she said, "when I said let's throw her off the tower, I didn't mean me personally throwing her off, I meant that if there was any justice she ought to be thrown off- "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I shouldn't say any more on that score, if I was you," said Nanny, kneeling carefully on the crunching shards. "Besides, I was right. This is Esme. I'd know that face anywhere. Take off your petticoat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at her arms, girl!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat stared. Then she raised her hands to her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What has she been doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trying to reach straight through glass, by the looks of it," said Nanny. "Now get it off and help me tear it into strips and then go and find Mrs Gogol and see if she's got any ointments and can help us, and tell her if she can't she'd better be a long way away by morning." Nanny felt Granny Weatherwax's wrist. "Maybe Lily Weatherwax could make jam of us but I'm damn sure I could knock Mrs Gogol's eye out with the fender if it came to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny removed her patent indestructible hat and fished around inside the point. She pulled out a velvet cloth and unwrapped it, revealing a little cache of needles and a spool of thread.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She licked a thread and held a needle against the moon, squinting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Esme, Esme," she said, as she bent to her sewing, "you do take winning hard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax looked out at the multi-layered, silvery world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where am I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">INSIDE THE MIRROR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Am I dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE ANSWER TO THAT, said Death, is SOMEWHERE BETWEEN NO AND YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily turned, and a billion figures turned with her. "When can I get out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHEN YOU FIND THE ONE THAT'S REAL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lily Weatherwax ran on through the endless reflections.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A good cook is always the first one into the kitchen every morning and the last one to go home at night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Pleasant damped down the fires. She did a quick inventory of the silverware and counted the tureens. She -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was aware of being stared at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a cat in the doorway. It was big and grey. One eye was an evil yellow-green, the other one pearly white. What remained of its ears looked like the edge of a stamp. Nevertheless, it had a certain swagger, and generated an I-can-beat-you-with-one-paw feel that was strangely familiar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Airs Pleasant stared at it for a while. She was a close personal friend of Mrs Gogol and knew that shape is merely a matter of deeply-ingrained personal habit, and if you're a resident of Genua around Samedi Nuit Mort you learn to trust your judgement rather more than you trust your senses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well now," she said, with barely a trace of a tremor in her voice, "I expect you'd like some more fish legs, I mean heads, how about that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo stretched and arched his back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And there's some milk in the coolroom," said Mrs Pleasant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo yawned happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he scratched his ear with his back leg. Humanity's a nice place to visit, but you wouldn't want to live there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a day later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mrs Gogol's healing ointment really seems to work," said Magrat. She held up a jar that was half-full of something pale green and strangely gritty and had a subtle smell which, you could quite possibly believe, occupied the whole world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's got snakes' heads in it," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you try to upset me," said Magrat. "I know the Snake's Head is a kind of flower. A fritillary, I think. It's amazing what you can do with flowers, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg, who had in fact spent an instructive if gruesome half-hour watching Mrs Gogol make the stuff, hadn't the heart to say so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," she said. "Flowers. No getting anything past you, I can see that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat yawned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They had been given the run of the palace, although no-one felt like running anywhere. Granny had been installed in the next room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go and get some sleep," said Nanny. "I'll go and take over from Mrs Gogol in a moment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Nanny... Gytha..." said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All that... stuff... she was saying, when we were travelling. It was so... so cold. Wasn't it? Not wishing for things, not using magic to help people, not being able to do that fire thing - and then she went and did all those things! What am I supposed to make of that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah, well," said Nanny. "It's all according to the general and the specific, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does that mean?" Magrat lay down on the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Means when Esme uses words like "Everyone" and "No-one" she doesn't include herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know... when you think about it... that's terrible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's witchcraft. Up at the sharp end. And now... get some sleep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat was too tired to object. She stretched out and was soon snoring in a genteel sort of way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sat and smoked her pipe for a while, staring at the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she got up and pushed open the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Gogol looked up from her stool by the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You go and get some sleep too," said Nanny. "I'll take over for a spell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's something not right," said Mrs Gogol. "Her hands are fine. She just won't wake up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all in the mind, with Esme," said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could make some new gods and get everyone to believe in ‘em real good. How about that?" said Mrs Gogol. Nanny shook her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I shouldn't think Esme'd want that. She's not keen on gods. She thinks they're a waste of space."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could cook up some gumbo, then. People'll come a long way to taste that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It might be worth a try," Nanny conceded. "Every little helps, I always say. Why not see to it? Leave the rum here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After the voodoo lady had gone Nanny smoked her pipe some more and drank a little rum in a thoughtful sort of way, looking at the figure on the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she bent down close to Granny Weatherwax's ear, and whispered:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ain't going to lose, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked out at the multi-layered, silvery world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where am I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">INSIDE THE MIRROR.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Am I dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE ANSWER TO THAT, said Death, is SOMEWHERE BETWEEN NO AND YES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Esme turned, and a billion figures turned with her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When can I get out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHEN YOU FIND THE ONE THAT'S REAL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is this a trick question?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down at herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This one," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And stories just want happy endings. They don't give a damn who they're for.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Jason eksetra,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well so much for Genua but I leanred about Mrs Gogol's zombie medicin and she gave me the Hityi Hidtfrt told me how to make banananana dakry and gave me a thing call a banjo youll be amazed and all in all is a decent soul I reckon if you keeps her where you can see her. It looks like we got Esme back but I don't know shes actin funny and quiet not like herself normally so Im keepin an Eye on her just in case Lily puled a farst one in the mirror. But I think shes geting better because when she woke up she arsked Magra tfor a look at the wand and then she kind of twidled and twisted them rings on it and turned the po into a bunch of flowers and Magrat said she could never make the wand do that and Esme said no because, she wasted time wishing for thinges instead of working out how to make them happen. What I say is, what a good job Esme never got a wand when she was young, Lily would have bin a Picnic by comparisen. Enclosed is a picture of the cemtry here you can see folks are buried in boxes above ground the soil being so wet because you dont want to be dead and drownded at the same time, they say travelin brordens the mind, I reckon I could pull mine out my ears now and knot it under my chin, all the best, MUM.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">In the swamp Mrs Gogol the voodoo witch draped the tail coat over its crude stand, stuck the hat on the top of the pole and fastened the cane to one end of the crosspiece with a bit of twine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a fluttering of wings. Legba dropped out of the sky and perched on the hat. Then he crowed. Usually he only crowed at nightfall, because he was a bird of power, but for once he was inclined to acknowledge the new day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was said afterwards that, every year on Samedi Nuit Moit, when the carnival was at its height and the drums were loudest and the rum was nearly all gone, a man in a tail coat and a top hat and with the energy of a demon would appear out of nowhere and lead the dance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After all, even stories have to start somewhere.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a splash, and then the waters of the river closed again. Magrat walked away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wand settled into the rich mud, where it was touched only by the feet of the occasional passing crawfish, who don't have fairy godmothers and aren't allowed to wish for anything. It sank down over the months and passed, as most things do, out of history. Which was all anyone could wish for.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three broomsticks rose over Genua, with the mists that curled towards the dawn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches looked down at the green swamps around the city. Genua dozed. The days after Fat Lunchtirne were always quiet, as people slept it off. Currently they included Greebo, curled up in his place among the bristles. Leaving Mrs Pleasant had been a real wrench.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, so much for la douche vita," said Nanny philosophically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We never said goodbye to Mrs Gogol," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon she knows we're going right enough," said Nanny. "Very knowin' woman, Mrs Gogol."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But can we trust her to keep her word?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's very honest, in her way," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, there's that," Granny conceded. "Also, I said I might come back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked across at Granny's broomstick. A large round box was among the baggage strapped to the bristles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never tried on that hat she gave you," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had a look at it," said Granny coldly. "It don't fit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I reckon Mrs Gogol wouldn't give anyone a hat that didn't fit," said Nanny. "Let's have a look, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sniffed, and undid the lid of the box. Balls of tissue paper tumbled down towards the mists as she lifted the hat out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat and Nanny Ogg stared at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were of course used to the concept of fruit on a hat - Nanny Ogg herself had a black straw hat with wax cherries on for special family feuding occasions. But this one had rather more than just cherries. About the only fruit not on it somewhere was a melon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's definitely very... foreign," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on," said Nanny. "Try it on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny did so, a bit sheepishly, increasing her apparent height by two feet, most of which was pineapple.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very colourful. Very... stylish," said Nanny. "Not everyone could wear a hat like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The pomegranates suit you," said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the lemons," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eh? You two ain't laughing at me, are you?" said Granny Weatherwax suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you like to have a look?" said Magrat. "I have a mirror somewhere..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence descended like an axe. Magrat went red. Nanny Ogg glared at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched Granny carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ye-ess," she said, after what seemed a long time, "I think I should look in a mirror."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat unfroze, fumbled in her pockets and produced a small, wooden-framed hand-mirror. She passed it across.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax looked at her reflection. Nanny Ogg surreptitiously manoeuvred her broomstick a bit closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm," said Granny, after a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the way the grapes hang over your ear," said Nanny, encouragingly. "You know, that's a hat of authority if ever I saw one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you think?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," said Granny, grudgingly, "maybe it's fine for foreign parts. Where I ain't going to be seen by anyone as knows me. No-one important, anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And when we get home you can always eat it," said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They relaxed. There was a feeling of a hill climbed, a dangerous valley negotiated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat looked down at the brown river and the suspicious logs on its sandbanks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What I want to know is," she said, "was Mrs Gogol really good or bad? I mean, dead people and alligators and everything..."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked at the rising sun, poking though the mists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good and bad is tricky," she said. "I ain't too certain about where people stand. P'raps what matters is which way you face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know," she added, "I truly believe I can see the edge from here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Funny thing," said Nanny, "they say that in some foreign parts you get elephants. You know, I've always wanted to see an elephant. And there's a place in Klatch or somewhere where people climb up ropes and disappear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Search me. There's prob'ly some cunnin' foreign reason."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In one of Desiderata's books," said Magrat, "she says that there's a very interesting thing about seeing elephants. She says that on the Sto plains, when people say they're going to see the elephant, it means they're simply going on a journey because they're fed up with staying in the same place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not staying in the same place that's the problem," said Nanny, "it's not letting your mind wander."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd like to go up towards the Hub," said Magrat. "To see the ancient temples such as are described in Chapter One of The Way of the Scorpion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they'd teach you anything you don't know already, would they?" said Nanny, with unusual sharpness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Magrat glanced at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably not," she said meekly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," said Nanny. "What's it to be, Esme? Are we going home? Or are we off to see the elephant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's broomstick turned gently in the breeze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a disgustin' old baggage, Gytha Ogg," said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's me," said Nanny cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And, Magrat Garlick - "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," said Magrat, overwhelmed with relief, "I'm a wet hen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked back towards the Hub, and the high mountains. Somewhere back there was an old cottage with the key hanging in the privy. All sorts of things were probably going on. The whole kingdom was probably going to rack and ruin without her around to keep people on the right track. It was her job. There was no telling what stupidities people would get up to if she wasn't there...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny kicked her red boots together idly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, I suppose there's no place like home," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," said Granny Weatherwax, still looking thoughtful. "No. There's a billion places like home. But only one of ‘em's where you live."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we're going back?" said Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But they went the long way, and saw the elephant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE END</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

