---
layout: page
title: "Obsidian Butterfly"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/hamilton-obsidian-butterfly_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215828">Laurell K Hamilton</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216937">Author's Note</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216715">1</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218761">2</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36464298">3</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36464801">4</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36465430">5</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36465678">6</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36466273">7</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36466524">8</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36466881">9</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36467076">10</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36467584">11</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36468003">12</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36468302">13</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36468551">14</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36468802">15</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36469191">16</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36469642">17</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36470024">18</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36470577">19</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36471046">20</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36471629">21</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36472485">22</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36472732">23</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36473922">24</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36474298">25</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36474789">26</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36475946">27</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36476135">28</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36476462">29</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36476866">30</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36477392">31</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36477940">32</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36478389">33</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36479018">34</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36479525">35</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36480070">36</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36480435">37</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36481220">38</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36482189">39</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36482504">40</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36482722">41</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36482772">42</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36483442">43</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36483980">44</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36484385">45</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36484713">46</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36484942">47</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36485769">48</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36486264">49</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36487052">50</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36488253">51</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36488855">52</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36489221">53</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36489685">54</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36489942">55</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36491136">56</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36491581">57</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36491923">58</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36492085">59</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36492557">60</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36492844">61</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36493041">62</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36494770">63</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36495121">64</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36495619">EPILOGUE</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Laurell K Hamilton <br class="calibre6"/>
  Obsidian Butterfly <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216937" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36217002" class="calibre7"></a>     Author's Note
     <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">For those of you who have never read an Anita Blake novel before, let me tell you a bit about her world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's just like the world we all live in -- except that the creatures of the night -- vampires, werewolves, zombies and such -- are not the stuff of fiction. They are here-and-now. We co-exist with them -- not always happily, not always peacefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And sometimes we get to know them all too well ...</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216715" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36216717" class="calibre7"></a>1 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I WAS COVERED in blood, but it wasn't mine, so it was okay. Not only was it not my blood, but it was all animal blood. If the worst casualties of the night were six chickens and a goat, I could live with it, and so could everyone else. I'd raised seven corpses in one night. It was a record even for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled into my driveway at a quarter 'til dawn with the sky still dark and star-filled. I left the Jeep in the driveway, too tired to mess with the garage. It was May, but it felt like April. Spring in St. Louis was usually a two-day event between the end of winter and the beginning of summer. One day you were freezing your ass off and the next day it'd be eighty plus. But this year it had been spring, a wet gentle spring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except for the high number of zombies I'd raised, it had been a typical night. Everything from raising a civil war soldier for a local historical society to question, a will that needed a final signature, to a son's last confrontation with his abusive mother. I'd been neck deep in lawyers and therapists most of the night. If I heard, "How does that make you feel, Jonathan (or Cathy, or whoever)?" one more time tonight, I'd scream. I did not want to watch one more person "go with his or her feelings" ever. At least with most of the lawyers the bereaved didn't come to the graveside. The court-appointed lawyer would ascertain that the zombies raised had enough cognitive ability to know what they were signing, then he would sign off on the contract as a witness. If the zombie couldn't answer the questions, then no legal signature. The corpse had to be of "sound" mind to sign a legally binding signature. I'd never raised a zombie that couldn't pass the legal definition of soundness, but it happened sometimes. Jamison, a fellow animator at Animator's Inc., had a pair of lawyers come to blows on top of the grave. What fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air was cool enough to make me shiver as I walked down the sidewalk to my door. I could hear the phone ringing as I fumbled the key into the lock. I hit the door with my shoulder because no one ever calls just before dawn unless it's important. For me that usually meant the police, which meant a murder scene. I kicked the door closed and ran for the phone in the kitchen. My answering machine had clicked on. My voice died on the machine and Edward's voice came on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, it's Edward. If you're there, pick up." Silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was running full out and skidded on my high heels, grabbing the receiver as I slid into the wall and nearly dropped the phone. I yelled into the receiver as I juggled the phone, "Edward, Edward, it's me! I'm here!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was laughing softly when I could finally hear him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glad I could be amusing. What's up?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm calling in my favor," he said quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn for silence, Once upon a TIME Edward had come to my aid, been my backup, He'd brought a friend, Harley, with him as more backup, I'd ended up killing Harley. Now, Harley had tried to kill me first, and I'd just been quicker, but Edward had taken the killing personally. Picky, picky. Edward had given me a choice: either he and I could draw down on each other and find out once and for all which of us was better, or I could owe him a favor. Some day he would call me up and ask for me to be his backup like Harley. I'd agreed to the favor. I never wanted to come up against Edward for real. Because if I did, I was pretty sure I'd end up dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was a hit man. He specialized in monsters. Vampires, shapeshifters, anything and everything. There were people like me that did it legal, but Edward didn't sweat the legalities, or hell, the ethics. He even occasionally did a human, but only if they had some sort of dangerous reputation. Other assassins, criminals, bad men, or women. Edward was an equal opportunity killer. He never discriminated, not for sex, religion, race, or even species. If it was dangerous, Edward would hunt it and kill it. It's what he lived for, what he was -- a predator's predator.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd been offered a contract on my life once. He'd turned it down and had come to town as my bodyguard, bringing Harley with him. I'd asked him why he hadn't taken the contract. His answer had been simple. If he took the contract, he only got to kill me. If he protected me, he thought he'd get to kill more people. Perfect Edward reasoning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He's either a sociopath or so close it makes little difference. I may be one of the few friends that Edward has, but it's like being friends with a tame leopard. It may curl on the foot of your bed and let you pet its head, but it can still eat your throat out. It just won't do it tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, you still there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm here, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't sound happy to hear from me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's just say I'm cautious," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed again. "Cautious. No, you're not cautious. You're suspicious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said. "So what's the favor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I need back up," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What could be so terrible that Death needs backup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted Forrester needs backup from Anita Blake, vampire executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ted Forrester was Edward's alter ego, his only legal identity that I was aware of. Ted was a bounty hunter that specialized in preternatural creatures that weren't vampires. As a general rule vamps were a specialty item, which was one of the reasons that there were licensed vamp executioners but not licensed anything else executioners. Maybe vampires just have a better political lobby, but whatever, they get the most press. Bounty hunters like Ted filled in the blanks between the police and the licensed executioners. They worked mostly in rancher-run states where it was still legal to hunt down varmints and kill them for money. Varmints still included lycanthropes. You could shoot them on sight in about six states as long as later a blood test proves they were lycanthropes. Some of the killings had been taken to court and were being contested, but nothing had changed yet on a local level.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So, what does Ted need me for?" Though truthfully I was relieved that it was Ted asking and not Edward. Edward on his own probably meant illegal, maybe even murder. I wasn't quite into cold-blooded murder. Not yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Come to Santa Fe and find out, he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"New Mexico? Santa Fe, New Mexico?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Since I'm coming as Anita Blake, vamp executioner, I can flash my executioner's license and bring my arsenal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bring what you want," Edward said. "I'll share my toys with you when you arrive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I haven't been to bed yet. Do I have time to get some sleep before I get on a plane?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get a few hours sleep, but be here by afternoon. We've moved the bodies, but we're saving the rest of the crime scene for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What sort of crime scene?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd say murder, but that's not quite the right word. Slaughter, butcher, torture. Yes," he said, as if trying the word over in his mind, "a torture scene."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you trying to scare me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then stop the theatrics and just tell me what the hell happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed, and for the first time I heard a dragging tiredness in his voice. "We've got ten missing. Twelve confirmed dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said. "Why haven't I heard anything on the news?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The disappearances made the tabloids. I think the headline was, 'Bermuda Triangle in the Desert.' The twelve dead were three families. Neighbors just found them today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long had they been dead?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Days, nearly two weeks for one family."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jesus, why didn't someone miss them sooner?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the last ten years almost the entire population of Santa Fe has changed. We've got a huge influx of new people. Plus a lot of people have what amounts to vacation homes up here. The locals call the newcomers Californicators."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cute," I said, "but is Ted Forrester a local?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted lives near the city, yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thrill went through me from the soles of my feet to the top of my head. Edward was the ultimate mystery man. I knew almost nothing about him, really. "Does this mean I get to see where you live?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll be staying with Ted Forrester," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're Ted Forrester, Edward. I'll be staying at your house, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was quiet for a heartbeat, then, "Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, the whole trip seemed much more attractive. I was going to see Edward's house. I was going to be able to pry into his personal life, if he had one. What could be better?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Though one thing was bothering me. "When you said families were the victims, does that include kids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Strangely, no," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, thank goodness for small blessings," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You always were a soft touch for the kiddies," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does it really not bother you to see dead children?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just listened to him breathe for a second or two. I knew that nothing bothered Edward. Nothing moved him. But children ... every cop I knew hated to go to a scene where the vic was a child. There was something personal about it. Even those of us without children took it hard. That Edward didn't, bothered me. Funny, but it did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It bothers me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," he said, "one of your more serious faults." There was an edge of humor to his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The fact that you're a sociopath, and that I'm not, is one of the things I take great pride in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't have to be a sociopath to back me up, just a shooter, and you are that, Anita. You kill as easily as I do, if the circumstances are right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't try and argue, because I couldn't. I decided to concentrate on the crime instead of my moral decay. "So Santa Fe has a large transient population."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not transient," Edward said, "but mobile, very mobile. We have a lot of tourism, and a lot of people moving in and out on a semi-permanent basis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So no one knows their neighbors," I said, "or what their schedules should be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly." His voice was bland, empty, with that thread of tiredness underneath, and under that was something else. A tone -- something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think there's more bodies that you haven't found yet," I said. I made it a statement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was quiet for a second, then said, "You heard it in my voice, didn't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure I like that. You being able to read me that well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry. I'll try to be less intuitive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't bother. Your intuition is one of the things that's kept you alive this long."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you making a joke about women's intuition?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm saying that you're someone who works from your gut, your emotions, not your head. It's a strength for you, and a weakness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too tenderhearted, am I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes, and sometimes you're just as dead inside as I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hearing him state it like that was almost scary. Not that he was including me in the same breath as himself, but that Edward knew something had died inside of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ever miss the parts that are gone?" I asked. It was the closest thing to a personal question I'd ever asked him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said. "Do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about that for a moment. I started to say yes, automatically, then stopped myself. Truth, always truth between us. "No, I guess I don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made a small sound, almost a laugh. "That's my girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was both flattered and vaguely irritated that I was "his girl." When in doubt, concentrate on the job. "What kind of monster is it, Edward?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've no idea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That stopped me. Edward had been hunting preternatural bad guys years longer than I had. He knew monsters almost as well as I did, and he'd traveled the world killing monsters, so he had first hand knowledge of things I'd only read about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">''What do you mean, you have no idea?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">''I've never seen anything kill like this, Anita." I heard an undercurrent in his voice that I'd almost never heard -- fear. Edward, whose nickname among the vamps and shapeshifters was Death, was afraid. It was a very bad sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">''You're shook, Edward. That's not like you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait until you see the victims. I've saved you photos of the other scenes, but the last one I kept intact, just for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did the local law enforcement like putting a ribbon around a crime scene and wrapping it up just for little ol' me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The local cops all like Ted. He's a good ol' boy. If Ted tells them you can help, they believe him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're Ted Forrester," I said, "and you're not a good ol' boy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But Ted is," he said, voice empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your secret identity," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, I'll fly into Santa Fe this afternoon, or early evening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fly into Albuquerque instead. I'll meet you at the airport. Just call me and give me the time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can rent a car," I said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be in Albuquerque on other business. It's not a problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What aren't you telling me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, keeping secrets?" There was a thread of amusement in his voice again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're the original mystery man, Edward. You love keeping secrets. It gives you a sense of power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does it?" he made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, it does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed softly. "Maybe it does. Make the ticket reservations and call me with the flight times. I've got to go." His voice went low as if someone else had come into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hadn't asked what the urgency was. Ten missing, twelve confirmed dead. It was urgent. I hadn't asked if he'd be waiting for my call. Edward, who never spooked, was scared. He'd be waiting for my call.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218761" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36218763" class="calibre7"></a>2 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT TURNED OUT that the only flight I could get that wasn't full was a noon flight, which meant I got about five hours of sleep before I had to get up and run for the airport. I also missed Kenpo class, a type of karate that I'd just started a few weeks ago. I'd have much rather been in class than on a plane. Ihate to fly. I'd driven to as many of the out of town appointments as possible, but I'd been doing a lot of flying lately. It had lessened the actual terror, but I wasstill phobic. I hated to be in a plane being flown by someone I didn't know, who I had not personally drug tested. I just wasn't the trusting sort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither are the airlines. Carrying a concealed weapon on a plane was a pain in the ass. I'd had to take the two-hour FAA course on carrying concealed on a plane. I had a certificate to prove I'd taken the course. I could not get on the plane without the certificate. I also had a letter stating that I was on official business that required me to carry a gun. Sergeant Rudolf (Dolf) Storr, head of the Regional Preternatural Investigation Team, had faxed me the letter on taskforce letterhead, always impressive. Someone who was a real policeperson had to give me something to legitimize my status. If it were real police business, even if Dolf weren't directly involved, he'd usually give me what I needed. If Edward had called me in to help in an unofficial case, i.e., illegal, I would have avoided Dolf. Mr Law and Order wasn't real fond of Edward, a.k.a. Ted Forrester. "Ted" was around a lot when there were bodies on the ground. It made Dolf not trust him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did not look out the window. I read and tried to pretend I was on a very cramped bus. I'd finally figured out that one of the reasons I didn't like to fly was that I also have claustrophobia. A 727 full of people was close enough to make it hard to breathe. I turned the little fan above my seat on high and read. I was reading Sharon Shinn. She was an author that I trusted to hold my attention even hundreds of feet above the ground with a thin metal sheet between me and eternity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So I can't tell you what Albuquerque looks like from the air, and the little walkway that led into the airport was like every other one I'd ever walked through. Even in the tunnel you could feel the heat pressing like a giant hand hovering over the thin plastic. It may have been spring in St. Louis, but it was summer in Albuquerque. I scanned the crowd for Edward and actually looked past him once before realizing it was him. Part of it was the fact that he was wearing a hat, a cowboy hat. There was a fan of feathers tucked into the front of the hat band, but it had the look of a hat that had been worn well. The brim was curved back on both sides as if he'd worked at the stiff material until the brim had formed a new shape under the constant run of his hands. His shirt was white and short-sleeved like something you'd get at any department store. It was matched with dark blue jeans that looked new and a pair of hiking boots that weren't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hiking boots? Edward? He'd never impressed me as a country boy. No, definitely a city fellow, but there he stood, looking sort of down-homey and comfortable. It didn't look like Edward at all until I met his eyes. Wrap him up in whatever disguise you want, you could dress him like Prince Charming on a Disney float, but as long as you could glimpse his eyes, you would still run screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes are blue and cold as winter skies. He is the epitome of WASP breeding with his blond hair and slender paleness. He can look harmless if he wants to. He is the consummate actor, but unless he works at it, his eyes give him away. If the eyes are the mirror to the soul, then Edward's in trouble because no one is home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled at me, and it thawed his eyes to something close to warmth. He was glad to see me, genuinely glad. Or as glad as he ever was to see anyone. It wasn't comforting. In a way it was unnerving because one of the main reasons Edward liked me was that together we always got to kill more than we did apart. Or at least I did. For all I knew, Edward might have been mowing down entire armies when he wasn't with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile turned into a grin. "You don't seem happy to see me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You being this happy to see me makes me nervous, Edward. You're relieved I'm here, and that scares me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The grin faded, and I watched all the humor, all the welcome, drain out of his face like water leaving a glass through a crack -- empty. "I'm not relieved," he said, but his voice was too bland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Liar," I said. I would have liked to say it softly, but the noise of the airport was like the crash of the ocean, a continuous roar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me with those pitiless eyes and gave one small nod. An acknowledgment that he was relieved I was here. Maybe he would have verbalized it, but suddenly a woman appeared at his side. She was smiling, her arms sliding around him until she cuddled against him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked thirtyish, older than Edward appeared, though I wasn't sure of his actual age. Her hair was short, brown, a no-nonsense style, but flattering. She wore almost no makeup, but was still lovely. I here were lines at her eyes and mouth that had made me jump her from thirty to forty something. She was smaller than Edward, taller than me, but still petite, though she didn't look soft. She was tanned darker than was healthy which probably explained the lines on her face. But there was a quiet strength to her as she stood there smiling at me, holding Edward's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wore jeans that looked so neat they must have been pressed, a white short-sleeved shirt that was sheer enough that she'd put a spaghetti strap tank top under it, and a brown leather purse almost as large as my carry-on bag. I wondered for a second if Edward had picked her up from a plane, too, but there was something too fresh and unhurried about her. She hadn't come off a plane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm Donna. You have to be Anita." She held out her hand, and we shook. She had a firm handshake, and her hand wasn't soft. She'd worked, this one had. She also knew how to shake hands. Most women never really got the knack of it. I liked her instantly, instinctively, and mistrusted the feeling just as quickly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted's told me so much about you," Donna said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced up at Edward. He was smiling, and even his eyes were full of humor. The entire set of his face and body had changed. He slouched slightly, and the smile was lazy. He vibrated with good ol' boy charm. It was an Oscar-winning performance, as if he'd traded skins with someone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Edward/Ted and said, "He's told you a lot about me, has he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes," Donna said, touching my arm while still holding onto Edward. Of course, she would be a casual toucher. My shapeshifter friends were getting me accustomed to touchie-feelie stuff, but it still wasn't my best thing. What the hell was Edward -- Ted -- doing with this woman?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward spoke, but there was a slight Texas-like drawl to his voice like an old accent almost forgotten. Edward had no accent whatsoever. His voice was the cleanest and hardest to place I'd ever heard, as if even his voice was never touched by the places and people he saw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita Blake, I'd like you to meet Donna Parnell, my fiancée."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My jaw dropped to the carpet, and I just gaped at him. I usually try and be a little more sophisticated than that, or hell, more polite. I knew that astonishment, nay shock, showed, but I couldn't help it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna laughed, and it was a good laugh, warm and chuckly, a good mom laugh. She squeezed Edward's arm. "Oh, you were right, Ted. Her reaction was worth the trip."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Told ya, honey-pot," Edward said, hugging her and planting a kiss on the top of her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I closed my mouth and tried to recover. I managed to mumble, "That's ... great. I mean really ... I ... " I finally extended my hand and said, "Congratulations." But I couldn't manage a smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna used the handshake to draw me into a hug. "Ted said you'd never believe he'd finally agreed to tie the knot." She hugged me again, laughing. "But, my god, girl, I've never seen such pure shock." She retreated back to Edward's arms and his smiling Ted face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I am not nearly as good an actor as Edward. It's taken me years to perfect a blank face let alone outright lying by facial expression and body language. So I kept my face blank and tried to tell Edward with my eyes that he had some explaining to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With his face slightly turned from Donna, he gave me his close, secretive smile. Which pissed me off. Edward was enjoying his surprise. Damn him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted, where are your manners. Take her bag," Donna said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and I both stared at the small carry-on bag I had in my left hand. He gave me Ted's smile, but he said Edward's line, "Anita likes to carry her own weight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked at me for confirmation as if this couldn't possibly be true. Maybe she wasn't as strong and independent as she appeared, or maybe she was a decade older than she appeared. A different generation, you know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted's right," I said, putting a little too much emphasis on his name. "I like to carry my own bags."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked like she'd have liked to correct my obviously wrong thinking but was too polite to say it out loud. The expression, not the silence, reminded me of my stepmother Judith. Which made me push Donna's age over fifty. She was either a mightily well preserved fifty-something, forty-something, or a sun-aged thirty-something. I just couldn't tell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They walked ahead of me through the airport, arm in arm. I followed behind them, not because my suitcase was too heavy but because I needed a few minutes to recover. I watched Donna bump her head against Edward's shoulder, her face turning to him, smiling, glowing. Edward/Ted bent over her, face tender, whispering something that made her laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was going to be sick. What the hell was Edward doing with this woman? Was she another assassin, as good an actor as he was? Somehow I didn't think so. And if she was exactly what she appeared -- a woman in love with Ted Forrester, who didn't exist -- I was going to kick Edward's metaphorical ass. How dare he involve some innocent woman in his cover story! Or -- and this was a very strange thought -- was Edward/Ted really in love? If you'd asked me ten minutes ago, I'd have said he wasn't capable of such depth of emotion, but now ... now I was just plain confused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Albuquerque airport broke my rule that all airports look nearly identical and you can't really tell what part of the country, or even the world, that you're in just from the airport. If there are decorations, they're usually from a different culture entirely, like inland bars having seaside motifs. But not here. Here there were hints of a southwestern flavor everywhere. Multi-colored tile or paint leaning to turquoise and cobalt blue lined most of the shops and store fronts. A small covered stand sold silver jewelry in the middle of the large hallway leading from the gates to the rest of the airport. We'd left the crowd behind and with it the noise. We moved in a world of neatly ringing silence, heightened by the white walls and the large windows on either side. Albuquerque stretched outside those windows like some great flat plain with a ring of black mountains at the edge, like the backdrop to a play, somehow unreal. The heat pressed down even through the air conditioning, not really hot, but letting you know it was going to be. The landscape was totally alien, adding to my sense of having been cut adrift. One of the things I liked about Edward is that he never changed. He was what he was, and now Edward, dependable in his own psychotic way, had thrown me a curve ball so wild I didn't even know how to swing at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna stopped and turned, drawing Edward with her. "Anita, that bag is just too heavy for you. Please let Ted carry it." She gave him a little good-natured push in my direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward walked towards me. Even his walk was a rolling sort of gait like someone who spent a lot of time on horseback or on a boat. He kept Ted's smile on his face. Only his eyes slipped and showed through the mask. Dead those eyes, empty. No love shone in them. Damn him. He actually leaned over, his hand started to close over mine and the handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hissed, "Don't." I let that one word hold all the anger I was feeling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes widened just a bit, and he knew I wasn't talking about just the carry-on bag. He straightened up and called back to Donna, "She doesn't want my help." He put emphasis on the "my."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tsked under her breath and walked back to us. "You're just being stubborn, Anita. Let Ted help you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at her and knew my face wasn't neutral, but I couldn't drain all the anger out of my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna's eyes widened just a bit. "Have I offended you in some way?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I'm not upset with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at Edward. "Ted, dear, I think she's angry with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you're right," Edward said. His eyes had gone back to sparkling with love and good humor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to salvage the situation. "It's just that Ted should have told me about the engagement. I don't like surprises."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna put her head to one side, giving me a long considering look. She started to say something, then seemed to think better of it. "Well, I'll try and make sure you don't get any more surprises from me." She settled herself a little more securely on Edward's arm, and the look in her brown eyes was just a tad less friendly than it had been before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I realized with a sigh that Donna now thought I was jealous. My reaction wasn't normal for a mere friend and business acquaintance. Since I couldn't tell her the real reason I was upset, I let it go. Better she think Ted and I had been an item once, than the truth. Though Heaven knew she'd probably prefer we'd been lovers to the real truth about her "Ted." She was in love with a man who did not exist, no matter how real the arm she was holding happened to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tightened my grip on my bag and moved up so I was walking on the other side of Donna as we moved up through the airport. She wasn't comfortable with me trailing behind so I'd keep up. I'm not good at small talk at the best of times, but now, I couldn't think of a damn thing to say, so we moved in a silence that grew progressively uncomfortable for me, and for Donna. Her, because she was a woman and naturally friendly. Me, because I knew silence would make her uncomfortable. I didn't want to make her more uncomfortable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She broke first. "Ted tells me you're an animator and vampire hunter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I prefer vampire executioner, but yeah." In a desperate attempt to be polite I asked, "What do you do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She flashed me a brilliant smile that showed the smile lines on either side of her mouth like a frame for her thin, oh-so-slightly lipsticked mouth. I was I glad I'd worn no makeup. Maybe that would help her realize I wasn't after Edward/Ted. "I own a shop in Santa Fe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward added, "She sells psychic paraphernalia." He gave me a smile over her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My face hardened, and I fought to keep it blank. "What sort of paraphernalia?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Crystals, tarot decks, books, everything and anything that catches my fancy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to say, "But you're not psychic," but I didn't. I'd met people before that were convinced they had psychic gifts when they didn't. If Donna was one of the successfully deluded, who was I to burst her bubble? Instead, I said, "Is there much of a market for that sort of thing in Santa Fe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, there used to be a lot of shops like mine. The new age was really big in Santa Fe, but the property taxes have skyrocketed and most of the new psychics have moved further into the mountains to Taos. Santa Fe's energy has changed in the last five years, or so. It's still a very positive place, but Taos has better energy now. I'm not sure why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She talked about "energy" like it was an accepted fact, and didn't try to explain it, as if I would understand her. She was assuming, like so many people did, that if you raised the dead for a living you were psychic in other areas, too. Which was often true, but not always. What she called "energy," I called the "feel" of a place. Some places did have a "feel" to them, good or bad, energizing or draining. The old idea of <em class="calibre9">genius loci </em>was alive and well in the new age movement under a different name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you read cards?" I asked. It was a polite way of finding out if she believed she had powers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, no," Donna said. "My gifts are very small. I'd love to be able to read cards or crystals, but I'm only a proprietor. My talent in this life is helping others discover their strengths."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It sounded like something a therapist who believed in past lives would have said. I'd been meeting enough of them at graveside to know the lingo. "So you're not a psychic," I said. I just wanted to be sure she knew it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, heavens no." She shook her head for emphasis, and I noticed her small gold earrings were ankhs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most people that go into the business usually are," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sighed. "The psychic I'm going to now says that I'm blocked in this life because of misuse of my gifts last time around. She says I'll be able to work magic next time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again, she assumed I believed in reincarnation and past life therapy, probably because of what I did for a living. Either that or Edward/Ted had been lying to her about me just to amuse himself. But I didn't point out that I was a Christian and didn't believe in reincarnation. There are, after all, more religions on the planet that believe in reincarnation than ones that don't. Who am I to quibble?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just couldn't help the next question. "And have you met Ted before in a past life?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, actually he's brand new to me, though Brenda says he is a very old soul."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Brenda, your psychic?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll agree with the old soul part," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward gave me a look over her head where she couldn't see him. It was a suspicious look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've felt it, too, then, the way he resonates. That's what Brenda calls it, like a great heavy bell in her head whenever he's around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Alarm bells more likely, I thought. Aloud I said, "Sometimes you can make your soul heavy in one lifetime."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave me a puzzled look. She wasn't stupid. There was intelligence in those brown eyes, but she was naive. Donna wanted to believe. It made her an easy mark for a certain kind of liar, like would-be psychics and men like Edward. Men who lied about who and what they were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd like to meet Brenda before I go home," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's eyes widened where she couldn't see them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna smiled delightedly. "I'd love to introduce the two of you. She's never met an animator before. I know she'd get a kick out of meeting you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll bet," I said. I did want to meet Brenda, because I wanted to see if she was truly a psychic or just a charlatan. If she was professing to abilities she didn't possess, it was a crime, and I'd turn her in. I hated seeing supposed psychics take advantage of people. It was always amazing to me with the number of genuine talents around, how many fakes still managed to prosper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were passing a restaurant decorated in more blue and fuchsia tiles with small daisy-like flowers painted in the edges. There was a mural on one wall showing Spanish conquistadors and breechcloth-clad Native Americans as we came down the escalators. I was still managing to balance my carry-on without any trouble, all that weightlifting I guess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a bank of pay phones set to one side. "Let me try to get hold of the kids one more time," Donna said. She kissed Edward's cheek and moved off towards the phones before I could react.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Kids?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said, voice careful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How many?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ages?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Boy, fourteen; girl, six," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's their father?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna is a widow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, and the look was enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I didn't do it. He died years before I met Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped close to him, turning my back so that Donna wouldn't see my face from the phones. "What are you playing at Edward? She has children and is so in love with you, it makes me gag. What on God's green earth could you be thinking?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna and Ted have been dating for about two years. They're lovers. She expected him to propose so he did." His face was still smiling Ted, but the voice was matter of fact and totally unemotional.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're talking like Ted's a third person, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to have to start calling me Ted, Anita. I know you. If you don't make it a habit, you'll forget."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped into him in the relative silence, lowering my voice to a furious whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fuck that. He is you, and you're fucking engaged. Are you going to marry her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small shrug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said. "You can't. You cannot marry this woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His smile widened, and he stepped around me holding his hands out to Donna. He kissed her and asked, "How are the munchkins?" He turned her in his arms so he was half-hugging her, and had her turned away from me. His face was Ted, relaxed, but his eyes were warning me, "Don't screw this up." It was important to him for some reason.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna turned so she could see my face, and I fought to give blank face. "What were you two whispering about so urgently?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The case," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, pooh," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at Edward. Oh, pooh. The most dangerous man I'd ever met was engaged to a mother of two that said things like, "Oh pooh." It was just too weird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna's eyes widened. "Where is your purse? Did you leave it on the plane?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't bring one," I said. "I knew I'd have the bag and pockets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at me as if I'd spoken in tongues. "My god, I wouldn't know what to do without my monstrosity in tow." She pulled the huge purse around in front of her. "I'm such a pack rat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are your kids?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With my neighbors. They're a retired couple and are just great with my little girl, Becca." She frowned. "Of course, nothing seems to make Peter happy right now." She glanced at me. "Peter's my son. He's fourteen going on forty, and seems to have hit his teenage years with a vengeance. Everyone told me a teenager was hard, but I never dreamed how hard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has he been getting into trouble?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not really. I mean he's not into anything criminal." She added the last a little too quickly. "But he's just stopped listening to me. He was supposed to come home two weeks ago from school and watch Becca. Instead, he went to a friend's house. When I came home after the shop closed, the house was empty, and I didn't know where either of them were. The Hendersons had been out so Becca wasn't there. God, I was frantic. Another neighbor had taken her in, but if they hadn't been home, she'd have just had to wander the neighborhood for hours. Peter came home and just wasn't sorry. By the time he came home, I'd convinced myself he'd been abducted by someone and was lying dead in a ditch somewhere. Then he just comes strolling in as if nothing's wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is he still grounded?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded, face very firm. "You bet he is. Grounded for a month, and I've taken every privilege I can think of away from him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does he think of you and Ted getting married?" It was a sadistic question, and I knew it, but I just couldn't help myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked stricken, truly stricken. "He's not too keen on the idea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Keen? "Well, he's fourteen, and a boy," I said. "He's bound to resent another male coming into his turf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna nodded. "Yes, I'm afraid so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ted hugged her. "It'll be all right, honeypot. Pete and I will come to an understanding. Don't you worry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't like Edward's phrasing on that. I watched his face but couldn't see behind his Ted mask. It was as if for minutes at a time he just vanished into his alter ego. I hadn't been on the ground an hour and his Jekyll/Hyde act was already beginning to get on my nerves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you have any other bags?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course, she does," Donna said. "She's a woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward gave a small laugh that was more his own than Ted's. It was a small sound that made Donna glance at him and made me feel better.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita isn't like any other woman I've ever met."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna gave him another look. Edward had phrased it that way on purpose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'dcaught her jealous reasoning just as I had, and now he was playing to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was one way to explain my strange reaction to the engagement news without risk of blowing his cover. I guess I couldn't blame him, but in a way I knew it was payback for my lack of social skills. His cover was important enough to him to let Donna think we'd been a couple, which meant it was pretty important to him. Edward and I had never had a single romantic thought about each other in our lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got luggage," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See," Donna said, tugging on his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The carry-on bag wouldn't hold all the guns."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna stopped in the middle of saying something to Edward, then turned slowly to stare at me. Edward and I stopped walking because she had stopped. Her eyes were a little wide. She seemed to have caught her breath. She was staring at me, but not at my face. If it had been a guy, I might have accused him of staring at my chest, but that wasn't exactly what she was looking at. I followed her gaze and found that my jacket had slipped back over my left side exposing my gun. It must have happened when I readjusted the bag coming off the escalator. Careless of me. I'm usually pretty careful about exposing my arsenal in public. It tends to make people nervous, just like now. I shifted the bag, so that my jacket slid back over the shoulder holster like a curtain dropping back in place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna drew a quick breath, blinked, and looked at my face. "You really do carry a gun." Her voice held a sort of wonderment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you she did," Edward said in his Ted voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know, I know," Donna said. She shook her head. "I've just never been around a woman that ... Do you kill as easily as Ted does?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a very intelligent question, and meant that she'd been paying more attention to the real Edward than I'd given her credit for. So I answered the question truthfully. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward hugged her to him, eyes warning me over her head. "Anita doesn't believe shifters are animals. She still thinks the monsters can be saved. It makes her squeamish sometimes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna stared at me. "My husband was killed by a werewolf. He was killed in front of me and Peter. Peter was only eight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know what reaction she expected so I didn't give her one. My face was neutral, interested, far from shocked. "What saved you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded slowly, understanding the question. A werewolf tore her husband apart in front of her and her son, yet they were still alive and the husband wasn't. Something had interceded, something had saved them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"John, my husband, had loaded a rifle with silver shot. He'd dropped the gun in the attack. He'd wounded it but not enough." Her eyes had gone distant with remembering. We stood in the bright airport, three people huddled in a small circle of silence and hushed voices and Donna's wide eyes. I didn't have to look at Edward to know that his face was as neutral as mine. She'd fallen silent, the horror still too fresh in her eyes. The look was enough. There was worse to come, or worse to her. Something she felt guilty about at the very least.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"John had just showed Peter how to shoot the week before. He was so little, but I let him take that gun. I let him shoot that monster. I let him stand his ground in the face of that thing, while I just huddled on the floor, frozen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was it. That was the true horror for Donna. She'd allowed her child to protect her. Allowed her child to take the adult role of protector in the face of a nightmare. She'd failed the big test, and little Peter had passed into adulthood at a very tender age. No wonder he hated Edward. Peter had earned his right to be man of the house. He'd earned it in blood, and now his mother was going to remarry. Yeah, right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna turned those haunted eyes to me. She blinked and seemed to be drawing herself hack from the past as if it were a physical effort. She hadn't made peace with the scene, or it wouldn't have remained so vivid. If you can begin to make peace, you can tell the most horrible stories as if they happened to someone else, unemotional. Or, maybe you haven't made peace, but you still tell it like it was an interesting story that happened a long time ago, nothing important. I've seen cops that had to get drunk before the pain spilled out into their stories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna was hurting. Peter was hurting. Edward wasn't hurting. I looked up at him, past Donna's softly horrified face. His eyes were empty as he looked at me, as waiting and patient as any predator. How dare he step into their lives like this! How dare he cause them more pain! Because whatever happened, whether he married her or didn't, it was going to be painful. Painful for everyone but Edward. Though maybe I could fix that. If he fucked up Donna's life, maybe I could fuck up his. Yeah, I liked that. I'd spread the rain around all over his parade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It must have shone in my eyes for a second or two, because Edward's eyes narrowed, and for a moment I felt that shiver he could send down my spine with just a glance. He was a very dangerous man, but to protect this family I'd test his limits, and mine. Edward had finally found something that pissed me off enough to maybe press a button that I'd never wanted to touch. He had to leave Donna and her family alone. He had to get out of their lives. I'd see him out of their lives, or else. And there is only one "or else" when you're dealing with Edward. Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other over Donna's head while he hugged her to his chest, stroking her hair, mouthing soothing words to her. But his eyes were all for me, and I knew as we stared at each other that he knew exactly what I was thinking. He knew the conclusion I'd come to, though he might never understand why his involvement with Donna and her kids was the straw that broke the camel's back. But the look in his eyes was enough. He might not understand why, but he knew the camel was broken in fucking two and there was no way to fix it except to do what I wanted him to do, or die. Just like that, I knew I'd do it. I knew I could look down the barrel of a gun and shoot Edward, and I wouldn't aim to wound. It was like a cold weight inside my body, a surety that made me feel stronger and a little lonelier. Edward had saved my life more than once. I'd saved his more than once. Yet ... yet ... I'd miss Edward, but I'd kill him if I had to. Edward wonders why I'm so sympathetic to the monsters. The answer is simple. Because I am one.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36464298" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36464300" class="calibre7"></a>3 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">WE WALKED OUT INTO the heat, and it blasted against our skin on the edge of a hot wind. It had the feel of a serious heat, and considering that it was only May, it probably would be a real barnburner when true summer finally hit. But it is true that eighty plus without humidity isn't nearly as miserable us eighty plus with humidity, so it wasn't horrible. In fact, once you blinked into the sunlight and just got adjusted to the heat, you sort of forgot about it. It was only attention-getting for the first, oh, fifteen minutes or so. St. Louis would probably be ninety plus by the time I got home, and with eighty to a hundred percent humidity. Of course, that meant I'd be going home. If I really drew down on Edward, that was a debatable option. There was a very real possibility that he'd kill me. I hoped, seriously hoped, that I could talk him out of Donna and her family without resorting to violence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe the heat didn't seem bad because of the landscape. Albuquerque was a flat empty plain running out and out to a circle of black mountains, as if everything of worth had been strip-mined away and the waste had been lumped into those forbidden black mountains like giant mounds of coal. Yeah, it looked like the world's largest strip-mining operation, and it had that feel to it of waste and desolation. Of things spoiled, and an alien hostility as if you weren't quite welcome. I guess Donna would say, bad energy. I'd never felt anyplace that had such an instant alienness to it. Edward was carrying both my suitcases that had come off the carousel. Normally, I'd have carried one, but not now. Now I wanted Edward's hands full of something besides guns. I wanted him at a disadvantage. I wasn't going to start shooting on the way in the car, but Edward is more practical than I am. If he decided I was more danger than help, he might he able to arrange an accident on the way to the car. It'd be tough with Donna in tow, but not impossible. Not for Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was also why I was letting him lead the way and putting me at his back instead of him at mine. It wasn't paranoia, not with Edward. With Edward it was simply good survival thinking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward got Donna to go ahead of us and unlock the car. He dropped back to walk beside me, and I put some distance between us so that we were standing in the middle of the sidewalk staring at each other like two old-fashioned movie gunfighters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept the suitcases in his hands. I think he knew that I was too keyed up. I think he knew if he dropped the suitcases, I was going to have a gun in my hand. "You want to know why I wasn't bothered with you following behind me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You knew I wouldn't shoot you in the back," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "And you knew I might."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I cocked my head to one side, almost squinting into the sun. Edward was wearing sunglasses, of course. But since his eyes rarely gave anything away, it didn't matter. His eyes weren't what I had to worry about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You like the personal danger, Edward. That's why you only hunt monsters. You have to be taking the big risk every time you come up to bat, or it's no fun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple came walking by with a cart full of suitcases. We waited in silence until they passed us. The woman glanced at us as they hurried past, picking up on the tension. The man jerked her back to face front and they pushed past us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have a point?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want to know which of us is better, Edward. You've wanted to know for a long time. If you take me from ambush, the question will never be answered and that would bug you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His smile both widened and faded, as if it wasn't a humorous smile anymore. "So, I won't shoot you in the back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So why go to so much trouble to fill my hands and make me walk in front."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This would be a hell of a time to be wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed then, soft and vaguely sinister. That one sound said it all. He was excited about the idea of going up against me. "I would love to hunt you, Anita. I've dreamed about it." He sighed, and it was almost sad. "But I need you. I need you to help solve this case. And as much as I'd like the big question answered, I'd miss you. You may be one of the only people in the world that I would miss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about Donna?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about her?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be cute, Edward." I looked past him to find Donna waving to us from the parking lot. "We're being paged."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced back towards her, lifting one of the suitcases to make a vague wave. It would have been easier to do if he'd dropped one of the cases but in his own way, Edward was being cautious, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned back to me. "You won't he able to do your job if you're looking over your shoulder for me. So a truce until the case is solved."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your word?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "My word."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"GOOD enough," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, and it was genuine. "The only reason you can take my word at face value is that if you give your word, you'll keep it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head and started closing the distance between us. "I keep my word, but I don't take most people's oaths very seriously." I was even with him and could feel the weight of his gaze even through the black lens of the sunglasses. He was intense, was Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you take mine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've never lied to me, Edward, not once you've given your word. You do what you say you'll do, even if it's a bad thing. You don't hide what you are, at least not from me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We both glanced back at Donna, and started walking side by side toward her as if we'd discussed it. "How the hell did you let it get so far? How could you have let Ted propose?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was quiet for so long, I didn't think he'd answer. We walked in silence in the sun-warmed heat. But finally, he did answer, "I don't know. I think one night I just got too caught up in my role. The mood was right and Ted proposed, and I think for just a second I forgot that I'd be the one getting married."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. "You've told me more personal shit in the last half hour than in the entire five years I've known you. Are you always such a jabberbox when you're on Ted's home turf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I knew you wouldn't like Donna being involved. I didn't know how strongly you'd react, but I knew you wouldn't like it. Which meant to keep the peace I had to be willing to talk about it. I knew that when I called you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stepped off the curb, both of us smiling and me waving to Donna. I said through the smile like a ventriloquist, "How can we know each other this well, and would miss each other if we died, yet still be willing to pull the trigger? I know it's the truth, but I don't understand it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't it enough to know it's true? Do you have to explain it?" he asked as we wove through the cars toward Donna.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I need to explain it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because I'm a girl," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made him laugh, a surprise burst of sound, and it made my heart ache because I could count on one hand the number of times I'd heard Edward surprised into laughter. I valued the sound of that particular laugh because it was like an old sound from a younger, more innocent Edward. I wondered if I was the only one that could force that laugh from him. How could we be talking calmly about killing each other? No, it wasn't enough to know we could do it. There had to be a why to it, and saying we were both monsters or sociopaths wasn't enough explanation. At least not for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked at me rather narrowly as we walked up. She made a big show of kissing him and when he sat the suitcases down and had his hands free, she put on an even better show. They kissed, hugged, and body pressed like a couple of teenagers. If Edward was in any way reluctant, it didn't show. In fact, he slipped off his hat and melded into her like he was happy to be there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood, leaning against the side of the car close enough to touch them. If they wanted privacy, they could get a room. It went on long enough that I wondered if checking my watch would be hint enough, but resisted the urge. I decided that leaning against the car, arms crossed over my stomach, looking bored might be hint enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward drew back with a sigh. "After last night, I wouldn't think you'd be missing me this much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always miss you," she said in a voice halfway between sultry and a giggle. Donna gazed at me, hands still encircling him, very possessive. She looked right at me and said, "Sorry, didn't mean to embarrass you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pushed away from the car. "I don't embarrass that easy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The happy light in her eyes turned to something fierce and protective. The look and her next words were not friendly. "And just what would it take to embarrass you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Is this my cue to say, a lot more than you've got?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stiffened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry, Donna. I am not now, nor have I ever been interested in ... Ted in a romantic way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never thought ... " she started to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Save it," I said. "Let's try something really unique. Let's be honest. You were worried about me with Edward," I changed it very quickly to, "Ted, which was why you did the teeny-bopper makeout session. You don't need to mark your territory for my sake, Donna." The last was said in something of a rush because I hoped she hadn't noticed my slip on the names, but of course she had, and I knew Edward had. "Ted's too much like me to ever consider dating. It'd be like incest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blushed even through the tan. "My, you are direct."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's direct even for a man," Edward said. "For a woman she's like a battering ram."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It saves time," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That it does," Edward said. He drew Donna into a quick but thorough kiss. "I'll see you tomorrow, honeypot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at me with Ted's warm eyes. "Donna drove her own car in so we could spend part of the day together. Now she's going to drive home to the kiddies, so we can do business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna turned from him, giving me a long searching look. "I'm taking you at your word, Anita. I believe you, but I'm also picking up some strange vibes from you like you're hiding something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was hiding something, I thought. If she only knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna continued, face very serious. "I'm trusting you with the third most important person in my life. Ted is right behind my kids for me. Don't screw up the best thing I've had since my husband died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See," Edward said, "Donna knows how to be blunt, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That she does," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna gave me one last searching look, then turned to Edward. She drew him away towards a car three down from us. They talked quietly together while I waited in the still, dry, heat. Since Donna had tried for privacy, I gave it to them, turning away and gazing off at the distant mountains. They looked <em class="calibre9">very </em>close, but it's always been my experience that mountains are seldom as close as they appear. They're like dreams, distant things to set your sights on, but not truly to be trusted to be there when you need them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard Edward's boots crunch on the pavement before he spoke. I was facing him, arms crossed lightly over my stomach, which put my right hand nicely close to the gun under my arm. I believed Edward when he said we had a truce on, but ... better cautious than sorry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped by the car one slot over, leaning his butt against it, arms crossing to mirror me. But he didn't have a gun under his arm. I wasn't sure that a bounty hunter's license was enough to get him through an airport metal detector, so he shouldn't have been able to have a gun or large blade on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unless of course he'd picked it up from one of the cars, where he'd hidden it. It would be something that Edward would do. Better to assume the worst and he wrong than assume the best and be wrong. Pessimism will keep you alive, optimism won't, not in our line of business anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our line of business. Strange phrase. Edward was an assassin. I wasn't. But somehow we were in the same business. I couldn't quite explain it, but it was title.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward gave me a pure Edward smile, a smile meant to make me uneasy and suspicious. It also usually meant that he meant me no harm and was just yanking my chain. Of course, he knew I knew what the smile usually meant, so he might use it to lull me into a false sense of security. Or it could mean just what it seemed to. I was overthinking things and that was bad all on its own. Edward was right, I was at my best when I let my gut work and kept my higher functions in the background. Not a recipe for going through life, but a good one for a gunfight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have a truce," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "I said, we did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You make me nervous," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile widened. "Glad to hear you're still scared of me. I was beginning to wonder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The day you stop being afraid of the monsters is the day they kill you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I'm a monster?" He made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know exactly what you are, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes narrowed. "You called me Edward in front of Donna. She didn't say anything, but you are going to have to be more careful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I'm sorry, I caught it, too. I will try but I'm not half as good a liar as you are. Besides, Ted is a nickname for Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not if the full name on my driver's license is Theodore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now, if I can call you Teddy, maybe I'd remember."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Teddy is fine," he said, voice totally unchanged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are a very hard man to tease, Ed ... Ted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Names don't mean anything, Anita. They're too easy to change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is Edward really your first name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I'd really like to know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" He gazed at me from the black sunglasses, and the weight of his interest burned through the glass. The question wasn't idle. Of course, Edward seldom asked any question he didn't want an answer to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because I've known you for five years, and I don't even know if your first name is real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's real enough," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It bugs me not to know," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" he asked again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged and eased my hand away from my gun because it wasn't necessary, not right this minute, not today. But even as I did it, I knew there would be other days, and for the first time I really wasn't sure that both of us would see the end of my little visit. It made me sad and grumpy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I just want to know what name to put on the tombstone," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed. "Confidence is a fine trait. Over-confidence isn't." The laughter faded and left his face around the glasses cool and unreadable. I didn't have to see his eyes to know they were cold and distant as winter skies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pushed away from the car, hands empty at my sides. "Look, Edward, Ted, whatever the hell you call yourself, I don't like being invited here to play monster bait, and find you dating the new age mom of the year. It's thrown me, and I don't like that either. We have a truce until the case is solved, then what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we'll see," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You couldn't just agree to stop being engaged to Donna?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No." His voice was small, careful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd need to give her a good enough reason to break her heart and the kids'. Remember, I've been spending a lot of time with the kids. How would it look to just vanish on them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think her son wouldn't mind. Peter, wasn't it? I think he'd love it if Ted would vanish."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned his head to one side. "Yeah, Peter would love it, but what about Becca? I've been in her life for over two years and she's only six. Donna trusts me to pick her up after school. I drive her once a week to dance lessons so Donna doesn't have to close the shop early." His voice and face never changed as he spoke, as if it was just facts and meant nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anger tightened my shoulders and traveled down my arms. I put my hands in fists just to have something to do with my body. "You bastard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe," he said, "but be careful what you ask me to do, Anita. Just walking out could do more damage than the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him, trying to see behind that blank face. "Have you thought about telling Donna the truth?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really think she could handle the truth, the entire truth, about me?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about that for nearly a full minute while we stood in the heat-soaked parking lot. Finally, I said, "No." I didn't like saying it, but truth was truth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're sure she couldn't play wife to an assassin? I mean you've only met her for half an hour. How can you be so sure?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now you're teasing me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His lips twitched almost a smile. "I think you are exactly right. I don't think Donna could handle the truth."</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36464801" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36464803" class="calibre7"></a>4 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE CAR BELONGED to Ted, even though Edward was driving it. It was a square and big something between a Jeep, a truck, and an ugly car. It was covered in red clay mud as if he'd been driving through ditches. The windshield was so dirty only two fans of clear space remained where the windshield wipers had washed away the mud. Everything else had dried to a reddish-brown patina of dirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, Edward," I said, as he opened the back hatch, "what have you been doing to this poor whatever it is. I've never seen a car so dirty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is a Hummer, and cost more than most people's houses." He raised the hatch and started putting my bags inside. I offered him my carry-on, and when I was close could smell that new car smell, which explained why the carpeting in back was still nearly pristine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it costs that much, then why doesn't it rate better care?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took the carry-on and put it on the new carpet. "I bought it because it could go over almost any terrain in almost any weather. If I didn't want it to get dirty, I'd have bought something else." He slammed the hatch shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can Ted afford something like this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, Ted makes a fine living off varmint hunting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not this good," I said, "not off of bounty hunting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you know what a bounty hunter makes?" he asked, peering around the filthy car at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a point. "I guess I don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most people don't know what a bounty hunter makes so I can get away with some purchases that might be out of Ted's price range." He walked around the car toward the driver's side, only the top of his white hat showing above the mud-caked roof.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried the passenger side door, and it opened. It took a little bit of work to climb into the seat, and I was glad I wasn't wearing a skirt. One nice thing about working with Edward was that he wouldn't expect me to wear business attire. It was jeans and Nikes for this trip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only business thing I was wearing was the black jacket slung over my cotton shirt and jeans. The jacket was to hide the gun, nothing more. "What are the gun laws like in New Mexico?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward started the car and glanced at me. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put on my seatbelt. Evidently, we were in a hurry. "I want to know if I can ditch the jacket and wear my gun naked, or whether I'm going to have to hide the gun for the entire trip."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His lips twitched. "New Mexico lets you carry as long as it's not concealed. Concealed carry without a permit is illegal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me test my understanding, I can wear the gun in full view of everyone with or without a carry permit, but if I put a jacket over it, concealing it, and don't have a carry permit, it's illegal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The twitch turned into a smile. "That's right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Western state gun laws are always so interesting," I said, but I started sliding out of the jacket. You can wiggle out of almost anything while remaining seat-belted in a car. Since I always wear a seatbelt, I'd had a lot of practice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But the police may still stop you if they see you walking around armed. Just make sure you're not here to kill anybody." He half smiled when he said the last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I can carry as long as it's not concealed, but not really, not without getting questioned by the police."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you can't carry a gun of any kind, even unloaded, into a bar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't drink. I think I can avoid the bars."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A wire fence edged the road he pulled onto, but did nothing to take away the flat, flat distances and the strange black mountains. "What are the mountains called?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sangre del Cristo -- the blood of Christ," he said. I looked at him to see if he was kidding. Of course, he wasn't. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why call them the blood of Christ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long has Ted lived out here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Almost four years," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you don't know why the mountains are named Sangre del Christo? Do you have no curiosity?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not about things that don't affect the job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't say, a job, but the job. I thought it was odd phrasing. "What if this monster that we're hunting is some kind of local bugaboo? Knowing why the mountains are named what they're named may mean nothing, or it may have to do with a legend, a story, a hint about some great blood bath in the past. There are very localised monsters, Edward, things that only come above ground every century or so like really long-lived cicadas."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cicadas?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, cicadas. The immature form stays in the ground until every thirteen or seven or whatever their cycle is years, they climb out, molt, and become adults. They're the insects that make all that noise in the summer time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever did those people wasn't a giant cicada, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not the point, Edward. My point is that there are types of living creatures that stay hidden, almost totally hidden, for years, then resurface, are still a part of the natural world. Preternatural biology is still. So maybe old myths and legends would give us a clue."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't bring you down here to play Nancy Drew," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, you did," I said looked at me long enough to make me want to tell him to watch the road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you talking about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you just wanted someone to point and shoot, you'd have brought in someone else. You want my expertise, not just my gun. Right?" He'd turned back to the road, much to my relief. There were small houses on either side, most of them made of adobe, or faux-adobe. I didn't know enough about it to judge. The yards were small but well-tended, running high to cacti and huge lilac bushes with surprisingly small bundles of pale lavender flowers on them. It looked like a different variety from the lilacs in the Midwest. Maybe it took less water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence had filled the car and I let it, watching the scenery. I'd never been to Albuquerque, and I'd play tourist while I could. Edward finally answered then he turned onto Lomos Street. "You're right. I didn't ask you down here just to shoot things. I already have backup for that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know them, but you'll meet them in Santa Fe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're driving straight to Santa Fe now? I haven't eaten yet today. I was sort of hoping to catch some lunch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The latest crime scene is in Albuquerque. We'll catch it, then lunch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will I feel like eating afterwards?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't suppose I could talk you into lunch first then."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got a stop before we hit the house," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What other stop?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just gave that small smile, which meant it was going to be a surprise. Edward loved to try my patience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe he'd answer a different question. "Who's your other backup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you, you don't know them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You keep saying them. Are you saying that you already have two people for backup, and you still needed to call me in, too?" He didn't say anything to that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three people backing you on this. Geez, Edward, you must be desperate." I'd meant for it to be a joke, sort of. He didn't take it that way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want this case solved, Anita, whatever it takes." He looked grim when he said it. So much for my sense of humor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do these two backups owe you a favor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are they assassins?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bounty hunters like Ted?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At least I had a name. "Bernardo is a sometimes assassin and a bounty hunter like Ted. You mean he uses his bounty hunting identity like you use yours as a legal identity?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes he's a bodyguard, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A man of many talents," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not really," he said. Which was a strange thing to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the other guy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf, okay. He's sometimes an assassin, not a bounty hunter, not a bodyguard, and what else?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His noncommittal answers were beginning to get on my nerves. "Do either of them have any other special abilities besides being willing to kill?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd reached my limit on "yes, no" answers. "I didn't come down here to play twenty questions, Edward. Just tell me about the other backups."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll meet them soon enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, then tell me where the other stop is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small shake of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, Edward, you're getting on my nerves, and you've already pissed me off, so cut the mysterious crap, and talk to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced sideways at me, a glimpse of eyes from the edges of the dark glasses. "My, my, aren't we touchy today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This isn't even close to touchy for me, Edward, and you know it. But keep up the noncommittal crap and you are going to truly piss me off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were already pissed off about Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am," I said. "But I'm willing to get interested in the case and forget to be continuously pissed. But I can't get interested in the case if you don't answer questions about it. As far as I'm concerned your backup is part of the case, so either start sharing info or drive me back to the damn airport."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't tell Olaf and Bernardo you're shacking up with a vampire and a werewolf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, I'm not dating either of them anymore, but that's not the point. I don't want to know about their sex life, Edward. I just want to know why you called them in. What are their areas of expertise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You broke up with Jean-Claude and Richard both?" For one of the few times since I'd met him I heard real curiosity in his voice. I wasn't sure if it was nice to know or disturbing that my personal life interested Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know if we broke up, it's more like we aren't seeing each other. I need some time away from them before I decide what to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you thinking about doing to them?" And there was a note of eagerness now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was only eager about one thing. "I am not planning to kill either of them, if that's what you're hinting at."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't say I'm not disappointed," Edward said. "I think you should have killed Jean-Claude yourself before it all got too deep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're talking about killing someone who has been my lover off and on for over a year, Edward. Maybe you could strangle Donna in her bed, but I'd lose sleep over something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you love him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The question stopped me, not because of the question but because of who was asking it. It seemed a truly odd question coming from Edward. "Yeah, I think I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you love Richard?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again, it seemed odd talking about my emotional life with Edward. I have a few male friends, and most of them would rather have a root canal than to talk about "feelings." Of all my male friends I was talking to the one I thought would never discuss love with me. It just wasn't my year for understanding men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I love Richard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You say, you think you love the vampire, but you simply answer yes about Richard. Kill the vampire, Anita. I'll help you do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not to put too fine a point on it, Edward, but I'm Jean-Claude's human servant. Richard is his animal to call. The three of us are bound by vampire marks into a nice little <em class="calibre9">menage a trois</em>. If one of us dies, we may all die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe, or maybe that's what the vampire tells you. It wouldn't be the first time he's lied to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was impossible to argue without looking like a fool, so I didn't try. "When I want your advice on my personal life, I'll ask for it. Until people start ice skating in hell, save your breath. Now, tell me about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You get to tell me who to date and who not to, but I can't return the favor?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "Are you angry with me about my stand on Donna?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly, but if you get to give me advice on dating, why can't I return the favor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not the same thing, Edward. Richard doesn't have kids."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Children make that big a difference to you?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah, they do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never figured you as the maternal type."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not, but kids are people, Edward, little people trapped by the choices the adults around them make. Donna's old enough to make her own mistakes, but when you screw her, you're screwing her kids, too. I know that doesn't bother you, but it bothers me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knew it would. I even knew how you'd react, but I don't know why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, you're one ahead of me. I never dreamed you were boffing new age widows with munchkins. I figured you more for the pay as you go plan."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted doesn't pay for it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about Edward?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "It's like eating, just another need."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cold bluntness of it was actually reassuring. "See, that's the Edward I've grown to know and be afraid of."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're afraid of me, but yet you'd come against me for a woman you just met and two kids you don't even know. I'm not even planning to kill any of them and yet you'd push the ultimate question between us." He shook his head. "I don't understand that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't understand it, Edward. Just know it's true."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you, Anita. You're the only person I know, except for me, that never bluffs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo and Olaf bluff?" I gave it that extra little lilt, making it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head and laughed. The tension that had been building eased with that laugh. "No, I'm not giving you anything on them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because," he said, and he almost smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at his careful profile. "You're enjoying this. You're enjoying Olaf and Bernardo meeting me." I didn't try and keep the surprise out of my voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just like I enjoyed you meeting Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even though you knew I'd be pissed," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "The look on your face was almost worth a death threat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "You're beginning to worry me, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just beginning to worry you? I must be losing my touch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, don't tell me about them. Tell me about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled into a parking lot. I looked up to find a hospital looming over us. "Is this the crime scene?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No." He pulled into a parking spot, and shut the engine off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What gives, Edward? Why are we at a hospital?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The survivors are here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes widened. "What survivors?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me. "The survivors from the attacks." He opened his door, and I grabbed his arm, holding him in the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned slowly and looked at my hand on the bare skin of his arm. He looked at my hand a long time with his disapproval at the touch radiating from him, but it was a trick I'd pulled myself more than once. If the person makes it known that they don't want to be touched, most people that don't mean you violence will back off. I didn't back off. I dug my fingers into his skin, not to hurt, just to let him know he wasn't getting rid of me that easily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talk to me, Edward. What survivors?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shifted his gaze from my hand to my face. I had an urge to snatch the sunglasses from his face but fought it. His eyes wouldn't show me anything anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you there were injured people." His voice was mild.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you didn't. You made it sound like there were no survivors."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My oversight," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My ass," I said. "I know you enjoy being mysterious, Edward, but it's getting tedious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let go of my arm." He said it the way you'd say, hello, or nice day, no inflection at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will you answer my questions if I do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said, still with that same pleasant empty voice. "But if you make this a pissing contest, Anita, I'll feel compelled to make you let go. You wouldn't like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice never changed. There was even a slight smile to his mouth. But I let go, slowly, drawing back into my seat. If Edward said I wouldn't like it, I believed him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talk to me, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave me a big ol' smile. "Call me Ted." Then the son of a bitch got out of the car. I sat in the car, watching him walk across the parking lot. He stopped at the edge with the hospital just across a small road from him. He took off the sunglasses, slipped one of the ear pieces into his shirt front, and stared back at the car, waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would serve him right if I didn't get out. It would serve him right if I went back to St. Louis and let him clean up his own mess. But I opened the door and got out. Why, you might ask. One, he'd asked me for a favor, and being Edward he'd reveal all in his own sadistic time. Two, I wanted to know. I wanted to know what had finally cut through all that coldness and scared him. I wanted to know. Curiosity is both a strength and a weakness. Which one this particular curiosity was wouldn't be answered for a while. I was betting on weakness.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36465430" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36465433" class="calibre7"></a>5 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">SAINT LUCIA HOSPITAL was big and one of the few buildings of any size in Albuquerque that I'd seen that didn't have a southwest theme to it. It was just big and blocky, generic hospital. Maybe they didn't expect the tourists to see the hospital. Lucky tourists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As hospitals go, it was nice, but it was still a hospital. A place I only go when things have gone wrong. The only up side this time was that it wasn't me or anyone I knew in the rooms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were in a long pale corridor with lots of closed doors, but there was a uniformed police officer in front of one of them. Call it a hunch, but I figured that was our room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward walked up to the policeman and introduced himself. He was at his good ol' boy best, harmless and jovial, in a subdued hospital sort of way. They knew each other on sight which should have sped things up considerably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniform looked past Edward to me. He looked young, but his eyes were cool and gray, cop eyes. You have to be on the job a while before your eyes go empty. But he looked at me too long and too intently. You could almost feel the testosterone rising to the surface. The challenging look said that either he was insecure in his own masculinity, his own copness, or that he hadn't been on the job all that long. Not a rookie, but not much beyond it either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If he expected me to squirm under the scrutiny, he was going to be disappointed. I faced him, smiling, calm, eyes blank and close to bored. Passing inspection had never been my favorite thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked first. "The lieutenant is inside. He wants to see her before she goes inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" Edward asked, voice still likable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The officer shrugged. "I'm just following orders, Mr. Forrester. I don't question my lieutenant. Wait here." He opened the door and slipped inside without giving much of a glimpse inside. He shut the door behind him, not waiting for the weight and hinges to do it for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was frowning. "I don't know what's going on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, raising an eyebrow, as if to say, go ahead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a girl and technically a civilian. A lot of cops don't trust me to do the job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I vouched for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, Ed ... Ted, I guess your opinion doesn't carry as much weight as you thought it did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still frowning at me with Edward's eyes when the door swung open. I was watching his face as he transformed into Ted. The eyes sparkled, the lips curved, the entire set of his face remade itself, as if it were a mask. His own personality vanished like magic. Watching the show this up close and personal made me shiver just a bit. The ease with which he switched back and forth was just plain creepy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man in the doorway was short, not many inches above me, maybe five foot six at best. I wondered if their police force didn't have a height requirement. His hair was a golden sun-streaked blond cut very short and close to his square-jawed face. He was tanned a nice soft gold, as if it were as dark a tan as his pale skin were capable of. First Donna, now the lieutenant. Didn't anyone sweat skin cancer here? He looked at me with green-gold eyes, the color of new spring leaves. They were beautiful eyes with long golden lashes and softened his face to an almost feminine appearance. Only the masculine jut of the jaw saved him from being one of those men who is beautiful instead of handsome. The jaw both ruined his face and saved it from perfection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eyes may have been lovely, but they weren't friendly. It wasn't even the coolness of cop eyes. It was hostile. Since I'd never met him before, it had to be the fact that I was a woman, a civilian, and/or an animator. He was either a chauvinist or superstitious. I wasn't sure which I preferred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let me have a nice long dose of glaring. I just gave blank face, waiting for him to get tired of it. I could stand there all day and be peacefully blank. Standing in a nice safe hospital corridor wasn't even close to the worst thing I'd had to do lately. It was always sort of peaceful when no one was trying to kill me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward tried to break the stalemate. "Lieutenant Marks, this is Anita Blake. Chief Appleton called you about her." He was still using Ted's happy voice, but there was a set to his shoulders that was stiff and not so happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're Anita Blake." Lieutenant Marks managed to sound doubtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes narrowed. "I don't like civilians messing in my case." He jerked a thumb at Edward. "Forrester here has proven himself valuable." He pointed a finger at me. "You haven't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward started to saysomething, but Marks but him off with a sharp movement of his hand. "No, let her answer for herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll answer a question if you'll ask one," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that supposed to mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It means you haven't asked a question yet, Lieutenant. You've just made statements."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't need shit from some fucking zombie queen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah, he was prejudiced. One mystery solved. "I was invited down here, Lieutenant Marks. I was invited to help you solve this case. Now if you don't want my help, fine, but I'll need someone from the city government to explain to my boss why the hell I got on a plane to New Mexico when I wasn't sure of my welcome."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't treat you right and you run to powers that be, is that it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Who got your panties in a twist, Marks?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned. "What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do I remind you of your ex-wife?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm married to my only wife." He sounded indignant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Congratulations. Is it the voodoo that I use to raise the dead? Are you nervous around the mystical arts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't like black magic." He fingered the cross-shaped tie tack that was standard police issue almost everywhere, but somehow I thought Marks was serious about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't do black magic, Marks." I drew on the silver chain around my neck until the crucifix spilled into the light. "I'm Christian, Episcopalian actually. I don't know what you've heard about what I do, but it's not evil."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You would say that," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The state of my immortal soul is between God and myself, Lieutenant Marks. Judge not lest ye be judged yourself. Or do you skip that part and just keep the parts you like?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face darkened, and a vein in his forehead started to pulse. This level of anger, even if he was a right-winger Christian extremist, was over the top. "What in hell is behind that door to have you both so spooked?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks blinked at me. "I am not spooked."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Yeah, you are. You're all bent out of shape about the survivors. And you're taking it out on me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know me," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but I know a lot of policemen, and I know when someone's scared."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped close enough to me that if it had been a fight, I'd have stepped back, put space between us. Instead, I stood my ground. I wasn't really expecting the lieutenant to take a swing at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think you're so fucking tough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked at him, close enough that if I'd risen on tiptoe, I could have kissed him. "I don't think, Lieutenant. I know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled at that, but not like he was happy. "You think you can take it, be my guest." He stepped to one side, making a sweeping motion towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to ask what was behind the door. What could possibly be so horrible that it had Edward and a police lieutenant this shaken? I stared at the closed door, smooth, hiding all its secrets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you waiting for, Ms. Blake? Go ahead. Open the door." I glanced back at Edward. "I don't suppose you'd give me a hint."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Open the door, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I muttered, "Bastard," under my breath and opened the door.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36465678" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36465680" class="calibre7"></a>6 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE DOOR DIDN'T LEAD directly into the room. It led into a small antechamber with another sealed, mostly glass door beyond. There was a hush of air circulating through the room as if the room had its own separate air supply. A man stood to one side wearing green surgical scrubs complete with little plastic booties over his feet, a mask hanging loose from his neck. He was tall and slender without looking weak. He was also one of the first New Mexicans that I'd met without a tan. He handed me a pile of scrubs. "Put this on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the clothes. "Are you the doctor on this case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm a nurse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got a name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small smile. "Ben, I'm Ben."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Ben. I'm Anita. Why do I need the scrubs?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To guard against infection."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't argue with him. My expertise was more in the line of taking lives, not preserving them. I'd bow to the experts. I put the scrubs over my jeans, tying the string tie as tight as it would go. The legs of the pants still bagged around my feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben the nurse was smiling. "We weren't expecting them to send us a policeman so ... petite."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "Smile when you say that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His smile brightened a flash of white teeth. The smile softened the face and made him seem less like Nurse Cratchet and more like a human being.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I'm not a cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes flicked to the gun in it's shoulder holster. The gun was very black and very noticeable against the red shirt. "You're carrying a gun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped a short-sleeved shirt over my head, and the offending gun. "New Mexico law says I can carry as long as it's not concealed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you're not a policeman, then why do you need the gun?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a vampire executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held a long-sleeved gown out towards me. I slipped my arms through the sleeves. It tied in the back like most hospital gowns. Ben tied it for me. "I thought you couldn't kill a vampire with bullets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Silver bullets can slow them down, and if they're not too old or too powerful, blowing a hole in their brain or heart works. Sometimes," I added. Wouldn't want Ben to get the wrong idea and try to take out an intruding vamp with silver ammo and get munched because he trusted my opinion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had some trouble getting my hair up under the little plastic hair thing but finally managed it, though the thin ridge of elastic that held it in place scraped the back of my neck every time I moved my head. Ben tried to help mo with the surgical gloves, but I put them on myself, no problem.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised eyebrows at me. "You've put on gloves before." It wasn't a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wear them at crime scenes and when I don't want blood under my fingernails."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He helped me tie the mask around my neck. "You must see a lot of blood in your line of work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not as much blood as you see, I bet." I turned with the mask over my mouth and nose. Only my eyes were left uncovered and real.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben looked down at me, and his face looked thoughtful. "I'm not a surgical nurse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is your specialty?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Burn unit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes widened. "Are the survivors burned?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No, but their bodies are still like open wounds, just like a burn. The protocol is similar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean their bodies are an open wound?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone tapped on the glass behind me, and I jumped, turning to see another man in an outfit just like mine glaring at me with pale eyes. He hit an intercom button, and his voice came clear enough to hear the irritation in it. "If you're coming inside, then do it. I want to sedate them again, and I can't do that until you've had a chance to question them, or so I'm told." He let go of the button and walked further away behind a white curtain that hid the rest of the room from view.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, I'm just on everybody's happy list today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben put on his mask and said, "Don't take it personally. Doctor Evans is good at what he does, one of the best."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If you want to find a good doctor in a hospital, don't ask other doctors or referral services. Ask a nurse. Nurses always know who's good and who's not. They may not say the bad stuff aloud, but if they say something good about a doctor, you can take it to the bank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben touched something on the wall that was a little too big to be called a button, and the doors whooshed open with a sound like an air lock opening. I stepped inside, and the doors hushed closed behind me. Nothing but the white curtain now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't want to pull that curtain aside. Everyone was too damned upset. It was going to be bad. Their bodies were like open wounds, Ben had said, but not a burn. What had happened to them? As the old saying goes, only one way to find out. I took a deep breath and pushed the curtain aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room beyond was white and antiseptic looking, a very hospital of a hospital room. Outside this room there had been some attempt at pastels and a pretense that it was just a building, just hallways, just ordinary rooms. All pretense ended at the curtain, and reality was harsh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were six beds, each with a whitish plastic hood/tent over the head of the beds and the upper bodies of the patients. Doctor Evans was standing beside the nearest bed. A woman in matching scrubs was further into the room, checking one of the many blinking, beeping pieces of equipment that huddled around each bed. She glanced up, and the small area of her face that showed was a startling darkness. African American, female, and not fat, but beyond that and height I couldn't tell anything underneath the protective clothing. I wouldn't recognize her again without the scrubs. It was strangely anonymous and disturbing. Or maybe that was just me. She dropped her gaze and moved to another bed, doing the same checks, writing something down on a clipboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked towards the closest bed. Doctor Evans never turned around or acknowledged me in any way. White sheets formed tents over each patient, held up by some sort of frame work to keep the sheet from touching them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans finally turned to one side so I could see the face of the patient. I blinked and my eyes refused to see it, or maybe my brain just rejected what I was seeing. The face was red and raw as if it should be bleeding, but it didn't bleed. It was like looking at raw meat in the shape of a human face, no meaty skull. The nose had been cut off, leaving bloody holes for the plastic tubes to be shoved inside. The man rolled brown eyes in his sockets, staring up at me. There was something wrong with his eyes beyond the lack of skin around them. It took me a few seconds to realize his eyelids had been cut off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room was suddenly warm, so warm, and the mask was suffocating me. I wanted to pull it off so I could breathe. I must have made some movement because the doctor grabbed my wrist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take anything off. I'm risking their lives with every new person that comes in here." He let go of my wrist. "Make the risk worth it. Tell me what did this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, concentrating on breathing slowly in and out. When I could talk, I asked, "What's the rest of the body look like?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me, his eyes demanding. I met his gaze. Anything was better than looking at what lay in the bed. "You're pale already. Are you sure you want to see the rest?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, truthfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even with just his eyes visible I could see the surprise on his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would like nothing better than to turn and walk out of this room and keep walking," I said. "I don't need any new nightmares, Doctor Evans, but I was called in here to give my expert opinion. I can't form an opinion without seeing the whole show. If I thought I didn't need to see it all, trust me, I wouldn't ask."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you hope to gain by it?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not here to gape at them, Doctor. But I'm looking for clues to what did this. Most of the time the clues are on the bodies of the victims."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man in the bed made small jerks, head tossing from side to side as if he were in a great deal of pain. Small helpless noises came from his lipless mouth. I closed my eyes and tried to breathe normally. "Please, Doctor, I need to see." I opened my eyes in time to see him rolling back the sheet. I watched him roll it back, folding it carefully, revealing the man's body an inch at a time. By the time I saw him to the waist, I knew that he'd been skinned alive. I'd hoped it was just the face. That was awful enough on its own, but it takes a hell of a long time to skin a grown man's entire body, a long screaming eternity to do it this well and this thoroughly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When the sheet rolled back over the groin, I swayed, just a little. It wasn't a man. The groin area was smooth and raw. I glanced back up at the chest. The bone structure looked male. I shook my head. "Is this a man or a woman?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Man," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared down and couldn't keep from staring at the groin and what was missing. "Shit," I said softly. I closed my eyes again. It was so hot, so very hot. With my eyes closed, I could hear the hiss of the oxygen, the whisper of the nurse's booties as she came towards us, and small sounds from the bed as he twitched and strained against padded restraints at his wrist and ankles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Restraints? I'd seen them but hadn't really registered them. All I could see was the body. Yes, body. I couldn't keep thinking of the man as a "he." I had to distance myself or I was going to lose it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Concentrate on business. I opened my eyes. "Why the restraints?" My voice was breathy but clear. I glanced down at the body, then back up, giving Doctor Evans the most complete eye contact I'd ever given. I'd stare at him until I memorized the light crows-feet around his eyes, if I just didn't have to keep looking at what lay on the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They keep trying to get up and leave," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned, not that he could see it under the mask. "Surely, they're too hurt to get far."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got them on some very strong painkillers. When the pain dies down, they try to leave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All of them?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I made myself look back to the bed. "Why isn't this just a case of a serial ... not killer. What would you call it? A serial ... " I shook my head. I couldn't think of a word for it. "Why was I called in? I'm a preternatural expert, and this could have been done by a person."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are no blade marks on the tissue," Doctor Evans said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared up at him. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean that no blade did this because no matter how good they are at torture, there are always telltale signs of the instrument used. You're right when you say the bodies of the victims have the best clues, but not these bodies. It's almost as if their skin just dissolved away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any corrosive agent that could take someone's skin and soft tissue like nose and groin wouldn't just stop at the skin. It would keep eating through the body."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Unless it was washed off immediately, but there's no residue of any known corrosive agent. More than that, the body isn't patterned on an acid burn. The nose and groin were torn away. There are signs of tearing and damage that aren't present elsewhere. It's almost as if whoever did the skinning, skinned them then tore off the extra pieces." He shook his head. "I've traveled all over the world to help catch torturers. I thought I'd seen it all, but I was wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you a forensic pathologist?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But they're not dead," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me. "No, they're not dead, but the same skills that let me judge a dead body work here, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted Forrester said there were deaths. Did they die from the skinning?" Now that I was "working," the room didn't seem so hot. If I concentrated very carefully on the business stuff, maybe I wouldn't throw up on the patients.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, they were cut into pieces and left where they fell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blade marks on the cut up bodies, I assume, or you wouldn't have used the word cut."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There were marks of a cutting tool, but it was like no knife or sword, or hell, bayonet that I'd ever seen. The cuts were deep but not clean, something less refined than a steel blade was used."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I don't know. The blade didn't cut through the bones, though. Whoever cut the bodies up pulled the bodies apart at the joints. No human would have the strength to do that, not multiple times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably not," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You really think a human being could have done this?" he asked, motioning at the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you asking me if a person could do this to another person? If you travel the world testifying in cases of death by torture, then you know exactly what people are capable of doing to each other."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not saying a person wouldn't do this," he said. "I'm saying I don't think it would be physically possible to do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "The cutting and tearing, I think might have been human, but I agree with the skinning. If it were done by a human, then there would be tool marks of some kind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You say tool marks, not blade marks. Most people assume it takes a blade to skin someone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anything that holds an edge can do it," I said, "though it's slower and usually messier. This is strangely clean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said, nodding. "Yes, that's a good phrase for it. As horrible as it is, it's still very neatly done, except for the extra tissue that was removed. That was not neatly done, but brutally done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Almost like we have two different ... " I kept wanting to say killers, but these people were still alive. "Perpetrators," I said finally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cutting up a body with a dull tool that isn't strong enough to tear through bone, then pulling a person apart with, bare hands is something more in the line of a disorganized serial killer. The careful skinning is something an organized serial killer might do. Why go to the trouble of carefully skinning the face and groin, then pulling off the pieces? It's either two different mutilators, or it's two different personalities."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A multiple personality?" He made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly, but not all serial killers are so easy to put in one category or another. Some organized criminals have moments of savagery that resemble the disorganized killer, and some organized minds become more disorganized as they escalate their killing. The same isn't true of a disorganized killer. There aren't enough brownies in the pan for them to ape organized methods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So either an organized killer with savage moments of disorganization, or ... or what?" The good doctor was talking very reasonably to me, not angry anymore. I'd either impressed him or at least hadn't disappointed him. Not yet, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It could be a pair of killers, an organized killer being the brains of the operation and the disorganized being the follower. It's not that unusual to find killers working in tandem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like the Hillside Strangler or rather Stranglers," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled behind the mask. "There have been a lot more cases than just that one where we had two killers. Sometimes it's two men. Sometimes it's a man and a woman. In that case the man is the dominant personality. Or at least in every case I've ever heard of, except one. Either way one is dominant and the other is to a lesser or greater degree in the control of the other. It can be a near complete domination so that the other person is unable to say no, or it can be more of a partnership. But even in more equal relationships one person is primarily dominant while the other is the follower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you're sure it's a serial mutilator?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The serial mutilator idea is the most normal solution I can come up with, but it I'm a preternatural expert, Doctor Evans. I'm rarely called in when the answer wears a human face, no matter how monstrous. Someone thinks this wasn't done by human hands, or I wouldn't be here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The FBI agent seemed very sure," Doctor Evans said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "Have I just wasted both our times here? Did the Feds come in and say pretty much what I just said?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pretty much," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you don't need me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The FBI is convinced that it's a serial mutilator, a person."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes the Feds can be very sure of themselves, and once they've committed themselves, they don't like to be wrong. Policemen in general can be like that. It is usually the easy answer when it comes to crime. If a husband dies, the wife probably did do it. Cops aren't encouraged to complicate a case. They're encouraged to simplify it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why aren't you taking the simple solution?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Several reasons. One, if it was a serial anything, a human, I'd think the police, Feds, whatever would have some clues by now. The level of fear and uncertainty among the men is too high. If they had a clue to what was happening, they'd be less panicked. I don't have a superior to report to. No one's going to slap my hand or demote me in rank if I guess and I'm wrong. My job and income don't depend on pleasing anyone but myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do have a boss to answer to?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but I don't have to give regular written reports. He's more a business manager than anything. He doesn't give a rat's ass how I do the job, as long as I do it and don't insult too many people along the way. I raise the dead for a living, Doctor Evans. It's a specialized skill. If my boss gives me too much grief, there are two other animating firms in this country that would take me in a hot minute. I could even go freelance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're that good?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I seem to be, and that frees me from a lot of the red tape and politics that the police have to mess with. My goal is to keep this from happening to anyone else. If I look a little foolish or indecisive along the way, that's just fine. Though I'll probably get some pressure to make up my mind and pick a bogeyman. Not from my boss, but from the police and the Feds. Solving something like this could make a cop's career. Being wrong and failing to solve it could he the end of a career."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But if you're wrong, you aren't hurt," Evans said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "If I'm wrong, then no harm, no foul. If everybody's looking in the wrong direction, me, the cops, the Feds, everybody, then this is going to keep on happening." I looked down at the man on the bed. "That will hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why? Why will it hurt you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because we're the good guys, and whoever or whatever is doing this, is the bad guy. Good is supposed to triumph over evil, Doctor Evans, or what's a Heaven for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're Christian?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't think you could be Christian and raise zombies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Surprise," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, though I wasn't sure what he was agreeing with. "Do you need to see the others, or is this enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can cover him back up, but yeah, I should at least look at the others. If I don't, then I'll wonder if I missed something by not looking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one else has made it all the way around the room without having to leave, and that includes me the first time I walked in here." He was walking to the next bed as he spoke. I followed behind, not happy to be there, but feeling better. I could do this if I just concentrated on solving the crime and shoved my empathy in a tight dark box. At that moment sympathy was a luxury I couldn't afford.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The second man was almost identical to the first except for height and eye color. Blue eyes this time, and I had to look away. If I locked gazes with any of them, they'd become people, and I'd run screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The third bed was different. The wounds on the chest seemed different somehow, and when Doctor Evans rolled the sheet over the groin, I realized it was a woman. My gaze went back to her chest where something had ripped away her breasts. Her eyes rolled wildly, mouth opening and closing, making small sounds, and I saw for the first time why no one was talking. The tongue was just a ruined stump, rolling like a butchered worm in that lipless, skinless opening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Heat washed over me in a rush. The room swam. I couldn't breathe. The mask molded itself to my open, gaping mouth. I turned and went for the doors. I walked slowly. I didn't run, but if I didn't get out of there I was going to lose what little I had on my stomach or maybe faint. Of the two I think I preferred throwing up. Doctor Evans pressed the pad that opened the door without a word. The doors opened, and I went through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben the nurse turned to me, mask hastily held in place with a gloved hand. When the doors shut behind me, he let the mask drop. "You all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, not trusting my voice. I jerked the mask off my face and still couldn't seem to get enough air. It was too quiet in the little room. The only sound the soft hush of the air whooshing in, recycling. The small movement of cloth as Ben moved towards me. I needed noise, human voices. I needed out of there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked the plastic thingie off my head. My hair fell around my shoulders, brushed my face. I still couldn't get enough air. "I'm sorry," I said, and my voice sounded distant. "I'll be back." I opened the outer door and escaped.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36466273" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36466275" class="calibre7"></a>7 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE HALL FELT COOLER, though I knew it wasn't. I leaned beside the closed door, eyes closed, breathing in great draughts of air. The corridor was full of noise after that silent hissing room. People walking, moving, and Lieutenant Marks' voice, "Not so fucking tough after all, eh, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my eyes and looked at him. He was sitting in the chair that had probably been brought up for the uniform guarding the door. The uniformed officer was nowhere to be seen. Only Edward leaned against the far wall, hands behind his back. He was watching my face, watching me, as if he'd memorize my fear. "I made it through three patients before I had to leave the room. How many did you see before you had to go outside, Marks?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't have to leave the fucking room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doctor Evans said that no one has made it through the room, all the way through the room without having to run out. That means you didn't make it either, Marks. So piss off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was on his feet now. "You ... you witch." He spat the last word at me as if it were the worst insult he could come up with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you mean bitch?" I said. I was feeling better out here in the hallway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trading insults with Marks was a cakewalk compared to my other choices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said what I meant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't know the difference between a real witch and an animator, no wonder you haven't caught the thing that's doing this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean 'thing'?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thing, thing, monster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Feds think it's a serial mutilator," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward. "Nice of someone to tell me what the Feds said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward didn't look guilty in the least. He gave me pleasant, unreadable, and I turned my attention back to Marks. "Then why aren't there any tool marks from the skinning?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks glanced down the corridor where a nurse was pushing a small cart. "We don't discuss an ongoing investigation in the open, where anyone can hear us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, then after I've gone back in there and looked at the last three ... bodies, we'll go some place more private and talk about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think he paled just a bit. "You're going back in there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The victims are the clues, Lieutenant. You know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can take you to the crime scenes," he said. It was the nicest thing he'd ever said to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great, and I need to see them, but right this moment we're here and the only possible clues are inside that room." My breathing had returned to normal and the sick sweat had dried on my forehead. Maybe I was a touch pale myself, but I was mobile and felt almost normal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked into the middle of the hall and motioned Edward over to me, as if I had something for his ears alone. He pushed away from the wall and came toward me. When he was close enough, I faked a low kick he looked down for just an instant, reacting to it, and the second, higher kick caught him in the jaw. He went backwards hard. He had his arms up to defend his face. He knew enough to defend the vital areas, and worry about standing later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart was thudding in my chest, not from exertion, but from adrenaline. I'd never used my new-found Kenpo skills in a fight. Trying it out for real for the very first time on Edward was probably not my best idea, but hey, it had worked. Though truthfully, I was a little surprised it had worked that easily. In the back of my head a voice wondered if Edward had let me take him down. The front of my head said that he had too much ego for that. I believed the second voice. I stayed where I was in a modified horse stance. It was pretty much the only stance I knew well enough to go back to once a kick was launched. I had my fists up, waiting, but didn't move in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Edward figured out I wasn't going to do anything else, he lowered his arm and stared at me. "What the hell was that?" There was blood on his lower lip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been taking Kenpo," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Kenpo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's sort of like Tae-kwon-do with fewer kicks and more fluid movements, a lot of hand work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A black belt in Judo wasn't enough?" he asked, and it was Ted's voice asking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Judo's great exercise, but it's not great for self-defense. You have to close with the bad guy and grapple. This way I can stay out of reach and still do damage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched his lip and came away with blood. "I see that. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why did I kick you in the face?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, and I think he winced ever so slightly. Great.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you warn me about the victims? Tell me what I was up against?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I walked in on them cold," he said. "I wanted to see how you handled it cold"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is not a pissing contest, Edward. Ted. I am not competing with you. I know you're better than me, tougher than me, colder than me. You win, okay? Stop with the macho bullshit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not so sure," he said, softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not sure about what?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's tougher. Remember, I didn't make it through the whole room either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him. "Fine, you want to go one on one, great, but not now. We are supposed to be solving a case. We are supposed to be making sure that what happened to those people doesn't happen to anyone else. When we're back on our own time, then you can get competitive. Until we solve this, cut it the fuck out, or you are going to seriously piss me off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward got slowly to his feet. I backed away out of reach. I'd never seen him use martial arts before, but I put nothing past him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sound made me back up further until I could see Edward and Marks without looking away from Edward. Marks was making a small sniggering sound. It took me a moment to realize he was laughing, laughing so hard his face was purplish and he seemed to be having trouble breathing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and I both stared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Marks could finally talk, he said, "You kick a man in the face, and that's not seriously pissed off." He straightened, hand to his side like he had a stitch in it. "What the fuck do you call seriously pissed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt my face going blank, my eyes going empty. For just an instant I let Marks see the gaping hole where my conscience was supposed to be. I didn't really mean to, but I couldn't seem to help it. Maybe I was more shaken up from the room and its survivors than I thought. It's the only excuse I can give.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks' face went from fading laughter to something like concern. He gave me cop eyes, but underneath that was an uncertainty that was almost fear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smile, Lieutenant. It's a good day. No one died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched the thought spill through his face. He understood exactly what I meant. You should never even hint to the police that you're willing to kill, but I was tired, and I still had to go back into the room. Fuck it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward spoke in his own voice, low and empty, "And you wonder why I compete with you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned eyes that I knew were just as dead as his to meet his gaze. I shook my head. "I don't wonder why you compete with me ... Ted. I just told you to stop doing it until the case is solved."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And then?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we'll see, won't we?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't see fear on Edward's face. I saw anticipation. And that was the difference between us. He enjoyed killing. I didn't. What really scared me was the thought that that might be the only difference between us now. It wasn't enough of a difference for me to throw stones in Edward's direction. I still had more rules than Edward did. There were still things that he would do that I wouldn't, but even that list had been growing shorter of late. There was something close to panic fluttering in my stomach. Not fear of Edward or anything he could do, but wondering when I'd turned the corner and become just another monster. I'd told Doctor Evans we were the good guys, but if Edward and I were on the side of the angels, then what was left to be on the other side?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something that could skin a person alive without using a tool of any kind. Something that would jerk the penis off a man and the breasts off a woman with its bare hands. As bad as Edward was, as bad as I'd become, there were worse things. And we were about to go hunting one of them.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36466524" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36466526" class="calibre7"></a>8 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IDID GO BACK into the room, and no, I didn't learn a damn thing from the last three victims. All that wasted bravery for nothing. Well, not exactly for nothing. I proved to myself that I could go back into the room without throwing up or fainting. I didn't care if it impressed Edward or Marks. It impressed me. If you can't impress yourself, then no one else really matters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I either impressed Doctor Evans, or he needed a restorative cup of tea because he invited me back to the doctors and nurses lounge. There's no such thing as truly undrinkable coffee, but I hoped the tea was better for Evans' sake. Though I doubted it. The coffee came out of a can, and the tea was from little bags with strings on them. There's only so much you can hope for from prepackaged tea and coffee. At home I grind my own beans, but I wasn't home and I was grateful for the bitter warmth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I added cream and sugar and noticed that the coffee was trembling in the cup, as if maybe my hands weren't quite steady. I was also cold. Nerves, just nerves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If Edward had nerves, you couldn't tell it as he leaned against the wall, drinking his coffee black. He'd scorned sugar and cream, tough he-man that he was. He winced as he sipped, and I don't think it was the scalding liquid. His lip was swelling slightly from where I'd kicked him. It made me feel better. Childish but true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks had taken a place on the room's only couch, blowing on his coffee. He'd taken cream and sugar in his. Evans settled down into the only chair that looked halfway comfortable, sighing as he stirred his tea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward watched me, and I finally realized that he wouldn't sit down until I did. Screw it. I sat down in a chair that was far too straight-backed to be comfortable, but was placed so I could watch everyone in the room, including the door. There was a small, but full-size, refrigerator against the far wall. It was an older model, done in an odd shade of brown. A small L-shaped cabinet area housed a coffee maker, a second coffee maker with nothing but hot water in it, a sink, and a microwave oven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans had used the hot water for his tea. There were white plastic spoons in an open packet, and a mug of those useless little coffee stirrers. There'd been a choice of sugar, Nutrasweet, and some other artificial sweetener that I'd never heard of. There was a circle of artificial creamer that had dried into a round crusty ridge where someone had sat a mug down in it. I concentrated on the minutia of the cabinet, trying not to think. For just a few moments I wanted to sip my coffee and not think. I still hadn't eaten today, and now I didn't want to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said you had some questions for me, Ms. Blake." Doctor Evans spoke into the silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jumped, and so did Marks. Only Edward stayed half-leaning against the wall, unmoved, blue eyes watching us all as if he were apart from the tension and the horror. Maybe he was, or maybe it was just an act. I just didn't know anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded, trying to focus. "How did they all survive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tilted his head to one side. "Do you mean technically how did they survive? Medical detail?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No, I mean, one person surviving this much trauma, or even two, I'll buy. But most people wouldn't survive it, or am I wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans pushed his glasses more securely on his nose, but nodded. "No, you aren't wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then how did all six of them survive?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me. "I'm not sure I understand exactly what you're trying to say here, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm asking what are the chances that six people of varying sex, background, physical fitness, age, etc ... would all be able to survive the same amount of trauma. My understanding is that all the victims that were just skinned have survived, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." Doctor Evans was watching me closely, pale eyes searching my face, waiting for me to go on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why did they survive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They're tough sons of bitches," Marks said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at the lieutenant, then back to Evans. "Are they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are they what?" the doctor asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are they tough sons of bitches?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lowered his eyes as if thinking. "Two of the men worked out regularly, one of the women was a marathon runner. The other three were just ordinary. One of the men is close to sixty, and didn't have a regular exercise routine of any kind. The other woman is in her thirties but didn't ... " He looked at me. "No, they aren't particularly tough individuals, not physically anyway. But I've found that it's often the people who aren't physically strong or outwardly tough that survive the longest under torture. The he-men are usually the first to cave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I forced myself not to glance at Edward, but it was an effort. "Let me test my understanding, Doctor. Have any people that have been skinned like the six in that room died?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked and again looked into the distance as if remembering, then he looked at me. "No, the only deaths have been those people torn apart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I ask again, why are they all alive? Why didn't at least one of them die from shock, blood loss, or a bad heart, or hell, the pure terror of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"People don't die from terror," Marks said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. "Are you absolutely sure of that, Lieutenant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His handsome face looked petulant, stubborn. "Yeah, I'm sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I waved the comment away. I'd argue with Marks later. Right now I was chasing a point. "How did all six of them survive, Doctor? Not why this six, but why all of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans nodded. "I see what you mean. How could all of them have survived it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Exactly. Some of them should have died, but they didn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whoever skinned them is an expert," Marks said. "He knew how to keep them alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said. "No matter how good you are at torture, you can't keep everybody alive. Even if you do exactly the same thing to each of them, some people die and some people live. You're not always sure why some make it, and some don't." His voice was very quiet, but it filled the hush of the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans looked at him, nodding. "Yes, yes, even an expert can't make people survive what was done to these six. You should lose some of them. For that matter I don't know why they're all still alive. Why hasn't one of them contracted some secondary infection? They are all remarkably healthy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks stood so abruptly, he spilled coffee over his hand. He cursed, striding to the sink and throwing the cup and all in the sink. "How can you say they're healthy?" He looked over his shoulder at the doctor while he ran his hands under the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are still alive, Lieutenant, and for their condition that is very healthy indeed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Magic would do it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are spells that can keep a person alive during torture so that the torture can be prolonged."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks tore too much paper towel off the roll and turned on me, wiping his hands with small abrupt movements. "How can you say you don't do black magic?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said there are spells that will do it, not that I did the spells," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took him three tries to get the paper towel in the waste basket. "Just knowing about such things is evil."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Think what you like, Marks, but maybe one of the reasons you had to call me in is that you've kept yourself so lily white that you don't know enough to help these people. Maybe if you were more interested in solving crime than in saving your own soul you'd have wrapped this up by now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saving a soul is more important than solving crime," he said. He was striding towards me now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood up, coffee cup in my hand. "If you're more interested in souls than crime then become a minister, Marks. What we need right now is a cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stalked towards me, and I think would have come close enough to exchange blows, but I watched him remember what I'd done out in the hall. I watched him remember caution, and he walked far around me to get to the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans glanced from one to the other of us, as if wondering what he'd missed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks turned at the door, pointing a finger at me. "If I have my way, you are going to be back on a plane tonight. You can't ask the devil to help you catch the devil." With that he closed the door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans spoke into the silence. "There must be more in you, Ms. Blake, than mere toughness, something I haven't seen yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him and took a drink of the cooling coffee. "What would make you say that, doctor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I didn't know better, I'd say Lieutenant Marks is afraid of you," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's afraid of what he thinks I am, Doctor Evans. He's jumping at shadows."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans looked up at me, his tea forgotten in his big hands. The look was a long considering one. I had an urge to squirm under such scrutiny, but fought it down. "Perhaps you are right, Ms. Blake, or perhaps he has seen something in you that I have not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When you spend all your time worrying that the devil is right behind you, eventually you start seeing him whether he's there or not," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans stood, nodding. He rinsed his coffee mug in the sink, washing it out with a fresh paper towel and soap. He spoke without turning around. "I do not know if I will ever see the devil, but I have seen true evil, and if there is no devil behind it, still it is evil." He turned and looked at me. "And we must put a stop to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yes," I said, "we must."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled then, but his eyes stayed tired. "I will work with my colleagues here that are more accustomed to working with the living instead of the dead. We will try and discover why these six survive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if it's magic?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Do not tell Lieutenant Marks, but my wife is a witch. She has traveled the world with me seeing such things. Sometimes what we find is more up her alley than mine, not often, mind you. People are quite able to torment one another without aid of magic. But occasionally it has been more."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take this wrong," I said, "but why haven't you called her in before this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took in a long breath and let it out. "She was out of the country on another matter. Why, you may ask, didn't I call her home sooner?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I wasn't going to ask."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Thank you for that. I reasoned that my wife was needed elsewhere, and the FBI seemed so sure it was a person." He glanced at Edward then back to me. "The truth is, Ms. Blake, something about all this frightens me. I am not a man who is easily frightened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're afraid for your wife," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me as if he could look into my mind with those pale eyes. "Wouldn't you be?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his arm, gently. "Trust your instincts, doctor. If it feels wrong, send her away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew away from my touch, smiling, tossing the paper towel into the trash can. "That would be terribly superstitious of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got a bad feeling about your wife's involvement with this thing. Trust your gut. Don't try to be reasonable. If you love your wife, listen to your heart, not your head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded twice then said, "I will think about what you said. Now I really must be going."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held out my hand. He took it. "Thanks for your time, doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My ... pleasure, Ms. Blake." He nodded to Edward. "Mr. Forrester."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded in return, and we were left in the silence of the lounge. "Listen to your heart and not your head. Damn romantic advice, coming from you," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Drop it," I said. I had my hand on the door handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How would your love life be if you took your own advice?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened the door and walked out into the cool white hallway without answering him.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36466881" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36466884" class="calibre7"></a>9 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MARKS' OFFER OF ESCORTING me to the crime scene seemed to have evaporated with his temper. Edward drove me. We drove in almost complete silence. Edward never sweated small talk, and I just didn't have the energy for it. If I could have thought of something useful to say, I'd have said it. Until then, silence was fine. Edward had volunteered that we were on our way to the latest crime scene, and we'd meet his other two backups in Santa Fe. He told me nothing else about them, and I didn't press it. His lip was still swelling because he'd been too macho to put ice on it. I figured the busted lip was all the slack Edward was going to give me for one day. I'd told him in the strongest terms I could manage, short of pulling a weapon, to stop the competitive crap, and nothing would change that, least of all me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, I was still riding in a ringing bell of silence as if everything echoed and nothing was quite solid. It was shock. The survivors, if that was the word for them, had shaken me down to my toes. I'd seen awful things, but nothing quite like that. I was going to have to snap out of it before we had our first fire fight, but frankly if someone had pulled a weapon on me right that second, I'd have hesitated. Nothing seemed truly important or even real.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know why you're afraid of this thing," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced toward me with the black lenses of his eyes, then back to the road, as if he hadn't heard. Anyone else would have asked me to explain, or made some comment. Edward just drove.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't fear anything that just offers death. You've accepted that you're not going to live to a ripe old age."</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">
     "We," 
    </em>
    he said. <em class="calibre9">"We've </em>accepted that <em class="calibre9">we </em>aren't going to live to a ripe old age."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to protest, then stopped. I thought about it for a second or two. I was twenty-six, and if the next four years were anything like the last four, I'd never see thirty. I'd never really thought about it in so many words, but old age wasn't one of my biggest worries. I didn't really expect to get there. My life style was a sort of passive suicide. I didn't like that much. It made me want to squirm and deny it, but I couldn't. Wanted to, but couldn't. It made my chest squeeze tight to realize that I expected to die by violence. Didn't want it, but expected it. My voice sounded uncertain, but I said it out loud. "Fine, <em class="calibre9">we've </em>accepted that <em class="calibre9">we're </em>not going to make it to a ripe old age. Happy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a slight nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're afraid that you'll live like those things in the hospital. You're afraid of ending up like them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aren't you?" His voice was almost too soft to hear, but somehow it carried over the rush of wheels and the expensive purr of the engine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm trying not to think about it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you not think about it?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because if you start thinking about the bad things, worrying about them, then it makes you slow, makes you afraid. Neither of us can afford that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two years ago, I'd have been giving you the pep talk," he said, and there was something in his voice, not anger, but close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were a good teacher," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His hands gripped the wheel. "I haven't taught you all I know, Anita. You are not a better monster than I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched the side of his face, trying to read that expressionless face. There was a tightness at the jaw, a thread of anger down the neck and into his shoulders. "Are you trying to convince me or yourself, ... Ted?" I made the name light and mocking. I didn't usually play with Edward just to get a rise out of him, but today, he was unsure, and I wasn't. Part of me was enjoying the hell out of that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slammed on the brakes and screeched to a stop on the side of the road. I had the Browning pointed at the side of his head, close enough that pulling the trigger would paint his brains all over the windows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a gun in his hand. I don't know where in the car it had come from, but the gun wasn't pointed at me. "Ease down, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stayed motionless but didn't drop the gun. I had one of those moments when you see into another person's soul like looking into an open window. "Your fear makes you slow, Edward, because you'd rather die here, like this, than survive like those poor bastards. You're looking for a better way to die." My gun was very steady, finger on the trigger. But this wasn't for real, not yet. "If you were really serious, you'd have had the gun in your hand before you pulled over. You didn't invite me here to hunt monsters. You invited me here to kill you if it works out wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave the smallest nod. "Neither Bernardo or Olaf are good enough." He laid the gun very, very slowly on the floorboard hump between the seats. He looked at me, hands spread on the steering wheel. "Even for you, I have to be a little slow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the offered gun without taking either my eyes or my gun off of him. "Like I believe that's the only gun you've got hidden in this car. But I do appreciate the gesture."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed then, and it was the most bitter sound I'd ever heard from Edward. "I don't like being afraid, Anita. I'm not good at it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean you're not used to it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I eased my own gun down until it wasn't pointing at him, but I didn't put it up. "I promise that if you end up like the people in the hospital I'll take your head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me then, and even with the sunglasses on I knew he was surprised. "Not just shoot me or kill me, but take my head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it happens, Edward, I won't leave you alive, and taking your head we'll both be sure that the job's done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something flowed across his face, down his shoulders, his arms, and I realized it was relief. "I knew I could count on you for this, Anita, you and no one else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Should I be flattered or insulted that you've never met anyone else coldblooded enough for this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf's blood is plenty cold enough, but he'd just shoot me and bury me in a hole somewhere. He'd have never thought about taking my head. And what if shooting didn't kill me?" He took off his glasses and rubbed his eyes. "I'd be in some stinking hole somewhere alive because Olaf would never think to take my head." He shook his head as if chasing the image away. He slid the glasses back on, and when he turned to look at me, his face was blank, unreadable, his usual. But I'd seen beneath the mask, further than I'd ever been allowed before. The one thing I'd never expected to find was fear, and beneath that, trust. Edward trusted me with more than his life. He trusted me to make sure he died well. For a man like Edward there was no greater trust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We would never go shopping together or eat an entire cake while we complained about men. He'd never invite me over to his home for dinner or a barbecue. We'd never be lovers. But there was a very good chance that one of us would be the last person the other saw before we died. It wasn't friendship the way most people understood it, but it was friendship. There were several people I'd trust with my life, but there is no one else I'd trust with my death. Jean-Claude and even Richard would try to hold me alive out of love or something that passed for it. Even my family and other friends would fight to keep me alive. If I wanted death, Edward would give it to me. Because we both understand that it isn't death that we fear. It's living.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36467076" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36467078" class="calibre7"></a>10 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE HOUSE WAS a two-story split-level ranch that could have been anywhere in the Midwest, in any upper-middle-class neighborhood. But the large yard was done in rock paths running high to cacti and a circle of those small flowered lilacs that were so plentiful. Other people had tried to keep their lawns green as if they didn't live on the edge of a desert, but not this house. This house, these people had landscaped for their environment and tried not to waste water. And now they were dead and didn't give a damn about environmental awareness or rainfall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, one of them could be a survivor. I didn't want to see pictures of the survivors before they'd been ... injured. I was having enough trouble keeping my professional distance without color photos of smiling faces that had been turned into so much naked meat. I got out of the car, praying that everyone had died in this house, not my usual prayer at a crime scene. But nothing about this case so far was usual.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a marked police car sitting out in front of the house. A uniformed officer got out of the marked car as Edward and I walked towards the yard. He was medium build but carrying enough weight for someone taller, a lot taller. His weight was mostly in the stomach and made his utility belt ride low. His pale face was sweating by the time he'd walked the five feet to us. He put his hat on as he walked towards us, unsmiling, thumb hooked in his utility belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I help you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward went into his Ted Forrester act, putting his handout, smiling. "I'm Ted Forrester, Officer ... " he took the time to read the man's name tag, "Norton. This is Anita Blake. Chief Appleton has cleared us both to see the crime scene."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Norton looked us both up and down, pale eyes not the least bit friendly. He didn't shake hands. "Can I see some ID?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward opened his wallet to his driver's license and held it out. I opened my executioner's license for him. He handed Edward's back, but squinted at mine. "This license isn't good in New Mexico."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm aware of that, Officer," I said, voice bland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He squinted at me, much as he had the license. "Then why are you here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled and couldn't quite make it reach my eyes. "I'm here as a preternatural advisor, not an executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed the license back to me. "Then why the hardware?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced down at the gun very visible against my red shirt. The smile was genuine this time. "It's not concealed, Officer Norton, and it's federally licensed so I don't have to sweat a new gun permit every time I cross a state line."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't seem to like the answer. "I was told to let the two of you in." It was a statement, but it sounded like a question, as if he wasn't quite sure he was going to let us in, after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and I stood there trying to appear harmless, but useful. I was a lot better at looking harmless than Edward was. I didn't even have to work at it most of the time. He was better at looking useful, though. Without seeming dangerous in the least he could give off an aura of purposefulness that police and other people responded to. The best I could do was look harmless and wait for Officer Norton to decide what our fate would be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He finally nodded, as if he'd made up his mind. "I'm supposed to escort you around the scene, Miss Blake." He didn't look happy about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't correct him that Miss Blake should have been Ms. Blake. I think he was looking for an excuse to get rid of us. I wasn't going to give him one. Very few policemen like civilians messing around in their cases. I wasn't just a civilian, I was female, and I hunted vampires; a triple threat if ever there was one. I was a civvie, a woman, and a freak.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This way." He started up the narrow walkway. I glanced at Edward. He just started following Norton. I followed Edward. I had a feeling I'd be doing a lot of that in the next few days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Quiet. The house was so quiet. The air conditioner purred into that silence reminding me of the recycled air in the hospital room. Norton came up behind me, and I jumped. He didn't say anything, but he gave me a look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved out of the entry hall and into the large high ceilinged living room. Norton followed me. In fact he stayed at my heels as I moved around the room like some obedient dog, but the message I was getting from him wasn't trust and adoration. It was suspicion and disapproval. Edward had settled into one of the room's three comfortable-looking powder blue chairs. He'd stretched himself full length, legs crossed at the ankles. He'd left his sunglasses on so he looked the picture of ease in the midst of that careful living room in that too silent house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you bored?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen the show," he said. He'd toned down his Ted act and was more his usual self. Maybe he didn't sweat Norton's reaction, or maybe he was tired of playacting. I knew I was tired of watching the show.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room was one of those great rooms which meant the living, dining, and kitchen were all one shared space. It was a large space, but I'm not really comfortable with the open floor plan. I like more walls, doors, barriers. Probably a sign of my own less than welcoming personality. If the house was any clue to the family that had lived in it, they'd been welcoming and somewhat conventional. The furniture was all purchased as sets: a powder blue living room set, a dark wood dining room set to one side with a bay window and white lacy drapes. There was a new hard back southwestern cook book on the kitchen cabinet. The receipt was still being used as a bookmark. The kitchen was the smallest area, long and thin with white cabinets and a black and white cow motif down to a cookie jar that mooed when you took its head off. Store-bought cookies, chocolate chip. No, I didn't eat one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any clues in the cookie jar?" Edward asked from his chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "I just had to know if it really mooed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Norton made a small sound that might have been a laugh. I ignored him. Though since he was standing about two feet from me the entire time ignoring wasn't easy I changed direction in the kitchen abruptly, and he nearly ran into me. "Could you give me a little more breathing space?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just following my orders," he said, face bland.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did your orders tell you to stand close enough to tango or just to follow me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His mouth twitched, but he managed not to smile. "Just to follow you ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great, then take about two big steps back so we do this without bumping into each other."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm supposed to make sure you don't disturb the scene, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The name's Anita, not ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That earned me a smile, but he shook his head and fought it off. "Just following orders. That's what I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something just a touch bitter about that last. Officer Norton was on the down side of fifty or looked it. He was close to putting in his thirty years, and he was still a uniform sitting in a car outside a crime scene following orders. If he'd ever had dreams of more, they were gone. He was a man who had accepted reality, but he didn't like it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened and a man came through with his tie at half-mast, the white sleeves of his dress shirt rolled up over dark forearms. His skin was a dark solid brown and it didn't look like a tan. Hispanic or Indian or maybe a little of both. The hair was cut very short, not for style, but as if it were easier that way. There was a gun on his hip and a gold shield clipped to the waist band of his pants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm Detective Ramirez. Sorry I'm late." He smiled when he said it, and there seemed to be genuine cheerfulness, but I didn't trust it. I'd seen too many cops go from cheerful to hardcore up in your face too many times. Ramirez would try to catch his flies with honey instead of vinegar, but I knew the vinegar was there. You didn't get to be a plainclothes detective without that streak of sourness. Or maybe a loss of innocence was a better phrase for it. Whatever you called it, it would be there. It was only a matter of how far under the surface it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I smiled and held my hand out, and he took it. The handshake was firm, the smile still in place, but his eyes were cool and noticed everything. I knew that if I left the room now he'd be able to describe me in detail down to my gun, or maybe up from my gun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Officer Norton was still behind me like a pudgy bridesmaid. Detective Ramirez eyes flicked to him and the smile wilted just a touch. "Thank you, Officer Norton. I'll take it from here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The look Norton gave him was not friendly. Maybe Officer Norton didn't like anybody. Or maybe he was white and Ramirez wasn't. He was old and Ramirez was young. He was going to end his career in uniform and Ramirez was already in plainclothes. Prejudice and jealousy are often close kin. Or maybe Norton was just in a bad mood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whatever, Norton went out like he'd been told, shutting the door behind him. Ramirez' smile went up a notch as he turned to me. I realized that he was cute in a young guy sort of way, and he knew it. Not in an egomaniac way, but I was a female, and he was cute, and he was hoping that that would cut him some slack with me. Boy, was he shopping in the wrong aisle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, but smiled back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is something wrong?" he asked. Even the slight frown was sort of boyish and endearing. He must practice it in the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Detective, nothing's wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please call me Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made me smile more. "I'm Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile flashed bright and wide. "Anita, pretty name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "it's not, and we're investigating a crime, not out on a blind date. You can tone the charm down just a touch, and I'll still like you, Detective Ramirez. I'll even share clues with you, honest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hernando," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It made me laugh. "Hernando. Fine, but really, you don't have to work this hard to win me over. I don't know you well enough to dislike you yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made him laugh. "Was it that transparent?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You make a good good-cop, and the little boy charm is great, but like I said, it's not necessary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, Anita." The smile went down a watt or two, but he was still open and cheerful somehow. It made me nervous. "Have you seen the entire house yet?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet. Officer Norton was trailing a little too close for comfort. Made it hard to walk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile closed down, but the look in the eyes was real. "You're a woman and with that black hair probably part something darker than the rest of you looks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My mother was Mexican, but most people don't spot it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're in a section of the country where there's a lot of mixing going on." He didn't smile when he said it. He looked serious and a little less young. "The people that want to notice will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could be part dark Italian," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small smile that time. "We don't have a lot of dark Italians in New Mexico."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I haven't been here long enough to notice one way or another."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your first time to this part of the country?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think so far?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen a hospital and part of this house. I think it's too early to form an opinion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If we get a breather while you're here, I'd love to show you some of the sights."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked at him. Maybe the boyish charm wasn't just a cop technique. Maybe he was, gasp, flirting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Before I could think of an answer, Edward came up behind us in his best good ol' boy charm. "Detective Ramirez, good to see you again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They shook hands, and Ramirez wasted a smile on Edward that looked just as genuine as Edward's. Since I knew Edward was play-acting, it was sort of unnerving how similar the two expressions were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good to see you, too, Ted." He turned back to me. "Please, continue looking around. Ted's told me a lot about you, and I hope for all our sakes that you're as good as he says you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward. He just smiled at me. I frowned. "Well, I'll try not to disappoint anybody." I walked back out into the living room trailed by Detective Ramirez. He gave me more room to maneuver than Norton had, but he watched me. Maybe he did want a date, but he wasn't watching me like a potential date. He was watching me like a cop to see what I did, how I reacted. It made me think better of him that he was professional.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had lowered his sunglasses enough to give me a look as I passed by him. He was smiling, almost grinning at me. The look said it all. He was amused at Ramirez' flirting. I flipped him off, covering the gesture with my other hand so only he would see it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It made him laugh, and the sound seemed at home here in this bright place. It was a place meant for laughter. The silence filled in behind his laughter like water closing over a stone, until the sound vanished into a profound quiet that was more than quiet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood in the middle of the bright living room, and it was as if it were a display home waiting for the real estate agent to come through with a tour of potential home owners. The house was so new, it felt like a freshly unwrapped present. But there were things that no real estate agent would have allowed. A newspaper was spilled over the pale wood coffee table with the business section folded into fourths. The business section had <em class="calibre9">New York Times </em>written across the top of it, but some of the other pieces said <em class="calibre9">Los Angeles Tribune. </em>A business person recently moved from Los Angeles, maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a large colored photo pushed to one corner of the coffee table. It showed an older couple, fiftyish, with a teenage boy. They were all smiling and touching each other in that posed casual way photos often use. They looked happy and relaxed together, though you can never really tell with posed photos. So easy to fool the camera.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked around the room and found smaller photos scattered throughout on numerous white shelves that took up almost all available wall space. The photos sat among souvenirs, mostly with an American Indian theme. The smaller more candid shots were just as relaxed, just as smiling. A happy, prosperous family. The boy and man, tanned and grinning on a boat with the sea in the background and a huge fish between them. The woman and three small girls covered in cookie dough and matching Christmas aprons. There were at least three photos of smiling adult couples with one or two children apiece. The little girls from the Christmas photo; grandchildren, maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at the couple and that tall, tanned teenager, and hoped they were dead because the thought of any of them up in that hospital room turned into so much pain and meat was ... not a comfy thought. I didn't speculate. They were dead, and that was comforting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned my attention from the photos to the Indian artifacts lining the shelves. Some of it was touristy stuff: reproductions of painted pots in muted shades, too new to be real; Kachina dolls that would have looked just as at home in a child's room; rattlesnake heads stretched in impotent strikes, dead before their murderer opened their mouths to appear fearsome.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Put in among the tourist chic were other things. A pot that was displayed behind glass with pieces missing and the paint faded to a dull gray and eggshell color. A spear or javelin on the wall above the fireplace. The spear was behind glass and had remnants of feathers and thongs, beads trailing from it. The head of the spear looked like stone. There was a tiny necklace of beads and shells under glass with the worn edges of the hide thong that bound them together showing. Someone had known what they were collecting because every piece that looked real was behind glass, cared for. The tourist stuff had been left out to fend for itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke without turning around, staring at the necklace. "I'm no expert on Indian artifacts but some of this looks like museum quality."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"According to the experts it is," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. His face had gone back to neutral, and he looked older. "Is it all legal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That earned me another small smile. "You mean is it stolen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The stuff we've been able to trace was all purchased from private individuals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's more?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Show me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned and started walking down a long central hallway. It was my turn to play follow the leader though I gave him more room than either he or Norton had given me. I couldn't help noticing how nicely his dress slacks fit. I shook my head. Was it the flirting, or was I just tired of the two men in my life? Something less complicated would have been nice, but part of me knew that the time for other choices was long past. So I admired his backside as we walked up the hall and knew it meant nothing. I had enough problems without dating the local cops. I was a civilian surrounded by police, and a woman, too. The only thing that would earn me less respect in their eyes was to date one of them. I would lose what little clout I had and become a girlfriend. Anita Blake, vampire executioner and preternatural expert, had some ground to stand on. Detective Ramirez' girlfriend would not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward trailed behind us, but far enough back that we were at the far end of the hallway when he was barely in the corridor. Was he giving us privacy? Did he think it was a good idea to flirt with the detective, or was any human better than a monster, no matter how nice the monster was? If Edward had any prejudice, it was against the monsters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez stood at the end of the hallway. He was still smiling as if he were giving me a tour of some other house for some other purpose. His face didn't match what we were about to do. He motioned to the doors to either side of him. "Artifacts to your left, gory stuff to the right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gory stuff?" I made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, still pleasant, and I moved closer to him. I stared into those dark brown eyes and realized that the smile was his blank-cop face. His face cheerful, but his eyes were just as unreadable as any cop's I'd ever seen. Smiling blankness, but still blankness. It was unique and somehow disquieting, "Gory stuff," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile stayed, but the eyes were a little less sure. "You don't have to play the tough girl with me, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's not playing," Edward said. He'd finally joined us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez' eyes flicked to him then back to study my face. "High compliment coming from you, Forrester."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If he only knew, I thought. "Look, Detective, I just came from the hospital. Whatever is behind the door can't be worse than that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you be so sure?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "Because even with the air conditioner on, the smell would be worse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile flashed bright and I think real for a moment. "Very practical," he said, voice almost laughing. "I should have known you'd be practical."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He motioned at his own face. "No make-up," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I just don't give a damn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "That too." He started to reach for the door, and I beat him to it. He raised eyebrows at me, but just stepped back and let me open the door. Which also meant I got to walk in first, but hey, only fair. Edward and Ramirez had both already seen the show. My ticket was fresh and hadn't been punched yet.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36467584" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36467586" class="calibre7"></a>11 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I EXPECTED TO FIND a lot of things in the bedroom: blood stains, signs of a struggle, maybe even a clue. What I did not expect to find was a soul. But the moment I entered that pale white and green bedroom I knew it was there, hovering near the ceiling, waiting. It wasn't the first soul I'd sensed. Funerals were always fun. Souls often hung around the bodies as if unsure what to do, but by three days' time the souls were usually gone to wherever souls were supposed to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared up at this soul and saw nothing. If a soul has a physical shape, you couldn't prove it by me, but I knew it was there. I could have sketched the outline of it in the air with my hand, knew about how much space it was taking up as it floated near the ceiling. But it was energy, spirit, and though it took up space, I wasn't entirely sure it took up the same kind of space as I did, as the bed did, as anything else did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My voice came out hushed, as if I spoke too loudly, I'd scare it away. "How long have they been dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They aren't dead," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked and turned to him. "What do you mean they're not dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You saw the Bromwells in the hospital. They're both still alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked into his serious face. The smile had vanished. I turned back to gaze at that slow hovering presence. "Someone died here," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one was cut up here," Ramirez said. "According to the Santa Fe PD that's the method of killing that this guy is using. Look at the carpet. There's not enough blood for anyone to have been cut up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down at the pale green carpet, and he was right. There was blood like black juice soaked into the carpet, but it wasn't much blood, just spots, dabs. The blood was from the skinning of two adults, but if someone had been torn apart limb from limb there would have been more blood, a lot more. There was still the faint rank smell where someone's bowels had let go either under torture or death. It was pretty common. Death is the last intimate thing we ever do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head and debated on what to say. If I'd been at home with Dolph and Zerbrowski and the rest of the St. Louis police that I knew well, I'd have just said I saw a soul. But I didn't know Ramirez, and most cops spook around anyone that can do mystical stuff. To tell or not to tell, that was the question, when noises from the front room brought us all around to stare behind us at the still open door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Men's voices, hurried footsteps, coming closer. My hand was on my gun when I heard a voice yell, "Ramirez, where the hell are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Lieutenant Marks. I eased away from my gun and knew I wasn't telling the police that there was a soul hanging in the air behind me. Marks was scared enough of me without that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped into the doorway with a small battalion of uniforms at his back, almost as if he expected trouble. His eyes were both harsh and pleased when he looked at me. "Get the fuck off my evidence, Blake. You are outta here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stepped forward, smiling, trying to play peace maker. "Now, Lieutenant, who would give such an order?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My chief." He turned to the cops behind him. "Escort her off the property."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held up my hands and started moving towards the door before the uniforms could move in. "I'll go, no problem. No need to get rough." I was at the door almost abreast with Marks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hissed close to my face, "This isn't rough, Blake. You come near me again and I'll show you rough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped in the doorway, meeting his gaze. His eyes had turned a swimming aqua blue, dark with his anger. The doorway wasn't that big, and standing in it we were almost touching. "I haven't done anything wrong, Marks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spoke low, but it carried, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought of a lot of things to say, and do, most of which would have gotten me dragged out by a bunch of uniforms. I didn't want to be dragged out, but I wanted to make Marks suffer. Choices, choices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rose on tiptoe and planted a big kiss on his mouth. He stumbled back, pushing away from me so hard that he fell into the bedroom and left me pushed into the hallway beyond. Masculine laughter filled the hallway. Two bright spots of color flamed on Marks' cheeks as he lay panting on the carpet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're lying in your evidence, Marks," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get her out of here, now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blew Marks a kiss, and left through a grinning parade of policeman. One of the uniforms offered to let me kiss him any time. I told him he couldn't handle it and left through the front door to laughter, catcalls, and masculine humor mostly at Marks' expense. He didn't seem to be a popular guy. Go figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stayed inside for a few moments, probably trying to soothe things over like a good Ted would do. But in the end he came out of the house, shaking hands with the cops, smiling, and nodding. The smile vanished as soon as he turned so that I was his only audience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He unlocked the car and we got in. When we were safe inside of its mud-stained windows, he said, "Marks has gotten you kicked off the investigation. I don't know how he did it, but he did it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe he and the chief go to the same church," I said. I had snuggled down into the seat, as far as the seatbelt would allow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at me as he started the engine. "You don't seem upset."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Marks isn't the first right-wing asshole to get up in my face, and he won't be the last."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's that famous temper of yours?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I'm growing up," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "What did you see in the corner of the room that I didn't? You were looking at something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A soul," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He actually lowered his sunglasses so I could see his baby blues. "A soul?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Which means that someone in that house did die, and within three days."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why three days?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because three days is the limit for most souls to hang around. After that they go to heaven or hell or wherever. After three days you may get ghosts, but you won't get souls."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But the Bromwells are alive. You saw them yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about their son?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's missing," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice of you to mention that." I wanted to be angry at him for the game playing, but I just couldn't find the energy. No matter how blasé I was about Marks, it did bother me. I was Christian, but I'd lost count of the number of fellow Christians who'd called me witch or worse. It didn't make me angry anymore, just tired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the parents are alive, then the boy probably isn't," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pulled out onto the road, easing his way among the plethora of marked and unmarked police cars brought with him. "But all the other murder vics were cut up. We didn't find any body parts in the house. If the boy is dead, then it's a change in the pattern. We haven't figured out the old pattern yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A change in pattern may give the police the break they need," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You believe that?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you believe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe that the Bromwells' son is dead, and whatever skinned and mutilated his parents took his body, but didn't cut it up. However the son was killed, it wasn't being torn apart or there would have been more blood. He was killed in a way that didn't add blood to the room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're sure he's dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a soul floating around the house, Edward. Someone's dead, and if there are only three people living in a house, and two of them are accounted for ... You do the math." I was staring out the car window but wasn't seeing anything. I was seeing that young tanned face smiling in the pictures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deductive reasoning," Edward said. "I'm impressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, me and Sherlock Holmes. By the way, now that I'm persona non grata, where are you taking me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To a restaurant. You said you hadn't had lunch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Fine." Then after a moment, I asked, "What was his name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Bromwells' son, what was his first name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thad, Thaddeus Reginald Bromwell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thad," I said softly to myself. Had he been forced to watch while his parents were skinned alive, mutilated? Or had they watched him die before they bled? "Where's your body, Thad? And why did they want it?" There was no answer. I hadn't expected one. Souls weren't like ghosts. To my knowledge there was no way to communicate with them directly. But I would have answers and soon. It had to be soon. "Edward, I need to see the pictures from the other crime scenes. I need to see everything the Santa Fe PD have. You said only this last case was in Albuquerque, so screw them. I'll start from the other end."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward smiled. "I've got copies at my house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your house?" I sat up straighter and stared at him. "Since when do the police share files with bounty hunters?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you the Santa Fe police like Ted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said the Albuquerque police liked you, too," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They do like me. It's you they don't like."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a point. I could still see the hatred in Marks' eyes when he hissed at me, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live." Sweet Jesus. That was actually the first time I'd ever had that particular verse quoted at me. Though I suppose someone would have gotten around to it sooner or later, being who I am and what I do. I just didn't expect it from a police lieutenant during a murder investigation. It lacked a certain professionalism.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks won't be able to solve this case," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Without you, you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't have to be me, but someone with some expertise is going to be needed. We are not dealing with a human killer here. Normal police work is not going to do the job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I agree," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks needs to be replaced," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll work on it," he said. Then he smiled. "Maybe with that nice Detective Ramirez that found you sooo fascinating."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't go there, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He does have one thing over your other two boyfriends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He is human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd have liked to argue but couldn't. "When you're right, you're right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're agreeing with me?" He sounded surprised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither Jean-Claude nor Richard are human. As far as I can tell, Ramirez is human. What's to argue about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was teasing you, and you go all serious on me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have no idea how refreshing it would be to be with a man that just wanted me for me, without any Machiavellian plots."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying that Richard has been plotting behind your back, just like the vampire?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's just say I'm no longer sure who the good guys are, Edward. Richard has become something harder and more complex because his role as Ulfric, Wolf King, has demanded it of him. And God help me, partly I think because, I demanded it of him. He was too soft for me, so he's become harder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you don't like it," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I don't like it, but since it's partially my fault, it's hard to bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then dump them both, and date some humans."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You make it sound so simple."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's only hard if you make it hard, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just dump the boys and start dating other men, just like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth sure I had an answer, but for the life of me couldn't come up with one. Why not date other people? Because I loved two men already and that seemed one too many without adding anyone else. But what would it be like to be with someone who was human? Someone who wasn't trying to use me to consolidate his power like Jean-Claude. Both Richard and Jean-Claude huddled around my humanity like it was the last fire at the end of the world and all the rest was icy darkness. Richard especially clung to me because I was human, and having a human girlfriend had seemed to help him retain human status. Though lately how human I was, was up for debate. At least Richard had been human until he became a werewolf. Jean-Claude had been human until he became a vampire. I'd seen my first soul when I was ten at my great-aunt's funeral. I'd raised my first dead by accident when I was thirteen. Of the three of us I was the only one who had never been truly human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What would it be like to date someone "normal"? I didn't know. Did I want to find out? I realized with a shock that I did. I wanted to go out on a normal date with a normal guy and do normal things, just once, just for a while. I'd been vampire's lover, werewolf's mate, zombie queen, and for the last year I'd been learning ritual magic so I could control all the rest, so I guess you could add apprentice witch to the list. It had been a weird year even for me. I'd called a break to the romance with both Richard and Jean-Claude because I needed a breather. They were overwhelming me, and I didn't know how to stop it. Would one date with someone else really hurt? Would going out with someone who was just a guy really bring the world crashing down around my ears? Would it? The answer was probably no, but the very fact that I wasn't sure meant I should have run from Ramirez and any other nice guy who asked me out. I should have said no, and kept saying no, so why did part of me want to say yes?</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36468003" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36468006" class="calibre7"></a>12 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS ONLY AS Edward was searching for a parking spot on the rock-covered parking lot behind Los Cuates that I realized it was a Mexican restaurant. The name should have been a clue, but I just hadn't been paying attention. If my mother had liked Mexican food, she hadn't lived long enough to pass it on to me. Blake was an English name, but before my great-grandfather came through Ellis Island it was Bleckenstien. My idea of ethnic cuisine was wiener schnitzel and sauerbraten. So I was less than enthused as we crossed the gravel to the rear entrance of the restaurant. For someone who didn't like Mexican or southwestern cuisine, I was in the wrong part of the country.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The back entrance led through a long shadowed hall, but the main restaurant was bright with white stucco walls: bright wall hangings, fake parrots dangling from the ceiling, and strings of dried chilies everywhere. Very touristy, which usually means the food won't be authentic or very good. But a lot of the diners were Hispanic and that boded well. Whatever the food, if the actual ethnic group liked the restaurant, then the food was authentic and likely good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A woman that actually looked Hispanic asked if we'd like a table. Edward smiled and said, "Thanks, but I see our party."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked where he was looking and saw Donna at a booth. There were two kids with her, one girl about five or six and a boy in his early teens. Call it a hunch, but I was betting I was about to be introduced to her kiddies. Introduced to Edward's potential step-children. Can you stand it? I was almost sure I couldn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna stood and gave Edward a smile that would have melted a lesser man into his socks. It wasn't the sex, though that was in there. It was the warmth, the perfect trust that only true love can give you. That first romantic love that may not last, but while it does, wow. I knew that he was probably giving as gooda look as he was getting, but his wasn't real. He didn't mean it. He was lying with his eyes, something I'd only managed to learn recently, and part of me is sad about that. It's one thing to know how to lie, but to be able to lie with your eyes says you are someone not to be trusted. Poor Donna. She was with two of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The little girl scooted out of the booth and came running towards us, arms outstretched, chestnut braids flying. She gave a glad shriek of, "Ted!" and flung herself into his arms. Edward scooped her up and tossed her towards the ceiling. She laughed that joyous full-blown sound that children eventually grow out of, as if the world bleeds the joy from them. Unless we're very lucky, the world teaches us to laugh more quietly, more coyly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The boy just sat staring at us. His hair was the same rich chestnut brown as the girl's, cut short with a wave of bangs that hung into his eyes. The eyes were brown and dark and not friendly. Edward had said the boy was fourteen, but he was one of those boys that look younger. He could have passed for twelve easily. He looked sullen and angry as he watched Edward and Donna hug, the little girl still in Edward's arms so it was a family hug, Edward whispered something in Donna's ear that made her laugh and pull away blushing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swung the girl to his other arm and asked, "How's my best girl?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She giggled and started talking in a high excited voice. She was telling some long complicated story about her day that involved butterflies and a cat and Uncle Raymond and Aunt Esther. I assumed they were the neighbors that had played babysitter for the day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The boy turned his hostile eyes from Edward to me. The frown did not lessen, but the eyes went from angry to curious, as if I wasn't what he'd expected. I actually get that a lot from men of all ages. I ignored the happy family stuff and held out my hand to him. "I'm Anita Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave me his hand half hesitating as if most people didn't offer. His grip was unsure as if he needed practice, but he said, "Peter, Peter Parnell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Good to meet you." I would have said his mother said good things about him, but that wasn't strictly true, and Peter struck me as someone who respected truth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded vaguely, eyes flicking to his mother and Edward. He didn't like it, not one little bit, and I didn't blame him. I remembered how I'd felt when my father brought Judith home. I'd never really forgiven my father for marrying her only two years after my mother's death. I hadn't finished my grieving and he was moving on with his life, being happy again. I'd hated him for it and hated Judith more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even if Edward had truly been Ted Forrester, and his intentions honorable, it would have been a difficult situation. As it was, it sucked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Becca was wearing a bright yellow sundress with daisies on it. She had yellow ribbons at the end of each neat braid. The hand she put over her mouth to smother a giggle still had that soft, round baby look to it. She was looking at Edward as if he was the eighth wonder of the world. In that moment I hated Edward, hated that he could lie to the child so completely and not understand that it was wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something must have shown on my face because Peter was giving me a strange considering look. Not angry, but thoughtful. I forced my face blank and met his eyes. He held my gaze for a few seconds, but finally had to look away. Probably not fair to bring out my full stare on one angry fourteen-year-old boy, but to do less would imply that he was less, and he wasn't, just young. And time would cure that. Donna took Becca back from Edward's arms and turned towards me smiling. "This is Becca."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hi, Becca," I said and smiled because she was one of those children that made it easy to smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And this is Peter," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've met," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna gave a funny look from Peter to me and back to me. I realized she thought we'd literally met before. "We introduced ourselves already," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She relaxed and gave a nervous laugh. "Of course. Silly of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were just too busy to notice," Peter said, and his voice held what the actual words did not: scorn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked at him as if she didn't know what to say, and finally, said, "I'm sorry, Peter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shouldn't have apologized. It implied she'd done something wrong, and she hadn't. She didn't know that Ted Forrester was an illusion. She was holding up her end of the bargain for happily ever after. Apologizing makes you sound weak, and from the look on Peter's face Donna needed all the strength she could get.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna slid into the booth first, then Becca, and Edward on the outside, with one leg hanging out from the booth. Peter had already sat down in the middle of his side of the booth. I sat down beside him and he didn't move over, so I found enough seat to be comfortable and ended with the line of our bodies touching from shoulder to hip. If he wanted to play sullen teenager with Edward and his mom, great, but I was not playing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Peter realized I wasn't moving over, he finally scooted over with a loud sigh that let me know it had been an effort. I did feel sorry for Peter and his plight, but my sympathy is never endless, and the sullen teenager routine might use it up pretty quick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Becca was sitting happily between her mother and Edward. She was swinging her legs, and her hands were out of sight, maybe holding a hand of each of them. Her contentment was large and complete as if sitting between them not only was she happy, but she felt safe the way you're supposed to feel with your parents. It made my chest tight to see her so pleased with the situation. Edward was right. He couldn't just leave without some explanation. Becca Parnell more than her mother deserved better than that. I watched the little girl sit there and shine between them and wondered what excuse would be good enough. Nothing came to mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Awaitress came to the booth, handed plastic menus all around even to Becca which pleased her, and then went away while we looked at them. Peter's first comment was, "I hate Mexican food."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna said, "Peter," in a warning voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I added my two cents worth, "Me, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter looked at me sideways, as if he didn't trust my show of solidarity with him. "Really?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted picked the restaurant," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Think he did it just to be irritating?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter was looking directly at me, eyes a little wide. "Yeah, I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Me, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna had an open-mouthed astonished look on her face. "Peter, Anita." She turned to Edward. "What are we going to do with the two of them?" Her appealing to Edward for help over such a small thing made me think less of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't do anything with Anita," he said, and he turned cool blue eyes to Peter. "I'm not sure about Peter yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter wouldn't meet Edward's gaze, and the boy squirmed just a bit. Edward made him uncomfortable on more than one level. It wasn't just that Edward was doing his mom. It was more than that. Peter was just a little afraid of Edward, and I was betting that he hadn't done anything to earn it. I was betting that Edward had tried very hard to win Peter over as he'd won Becca over, but Peter wasn't having any of it. It had probably started out as just the normal resentment of anyone his mom dated, but the way he sat there now with his gaze carefully avoiding Edward's let me know it was more now, Peter was more nervous than he should have been around Ted, as if he somehow had picked up the real Edward under all the fun and games. It was both good for Peter and bad for him. If he ever guessed the truth and Edward didn't want it known ... Well, Edward was very practical.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One problem at a time. Peter and I bent over our menus and made disparaging comments about nearly every menu item. By the time the waitress had come back with a basket of bread, I'd actually seen him smile twice. My own younger brother Josh had never been sullen, but I'd always gotten along with him. If I ever had children, not that I was planning on it, I wanted boys. I was just more comfortable with them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bread wasn't bread, but some fluffed pastry thing called a sopapilla. There was a plastic container of honey on the table especially for them. Donna spread honey on a small corner and ate that. Edward spread honey across one entire end of his bread. Becca put so much honey on her bread that Donna had to take it away from her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter took a sopapilla. "It's the only good part of the meal," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't like honey," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, either, but this isn't bad." He spread a minute amount of honey and ate the small bite he'd spread it on, then repeated the process.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got one and followed his example. The bread was good, but the honey was very different, stronger, and with an undercurrent that reminded me of sage. "This honey tastes nothing like honey back home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's sage honey," Edward said. "Stronger flavor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll say." I'd never had anything but clover honey. I wondered if all honey took on the flavor of the plant the bees used. It seemed likely. Learn something new every day. But Peter was right. The sopapillas were good, and the honey wasn't bad in small, nay, microscopic amounts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally ordered chicken enchilada. I mean, what could they possibly do to chicken to make it uneatable. Don't answer that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter had plain cheese enchiladas. Both of us seemed to be going on the less is better plan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was on my second sopapilla when everyone else, including Peter, had finished their two a piece, when I saw bad guys come into the restaurant. How did I know they were bad guys? Instinct? Nope, practice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first one was six foot and almost obscenely broad through the shoulders. His arms swelled against the sleeves of his T-shirt as if the cloth couldn't contain him. His hair was straight and thick, tied back in a loose braid. I think the braid was for effect because the rest of him was so ethnic, he could have been the poster boy for the American Indian <em class="calibre9">GQ. </em>The cheekbones were high and tight under the dark skin, a slight uptilt to his black eyes, a strong jaw, slender lips. He wore blue jeans that were tight enough that you could tell his lower body had not had the workout that his upper body had. There is only one place where a man will put that much effort into his upper body and ignore his lower: prison. You don't lift weights in prison to get a balanced effect. You lift weights so you look like a complete badass and can hit with everything you got when the time comes. I looked for the next clue, and the tattoos were there. Black barbwire chased the swell of his arms just below the sleeves of the T-shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two other men with him, one taller, one shorter. The taller one was in better shape, but the shorter had a wicked-looking scar that nearly bisected his face giving him the more sinister look. All the three of them needed was a sign above their heads that flashed "bad news." Why was I not surprised when they started walking toward us. I looked at Edward and mouthed, "What's up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The strangest part was that Donna knew them. I could tell by her face that she knew them and was scared of them. Could this day get any stranger?</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36468302" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36468304" class="calibre7"></a>13 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">PETER LET OUT A soft, "Oh, my God."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face showed fear. He put his angry sullen look up like a mask, but I was close enough to see how wide his eyes were, how his breathing had quickened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Becca, and she had curled back into the seat between Edward and Donna. She peered out around Edward's arm with wide eyes. Everyone knew what was happening except me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I didn't have long to wait. The threatening threesome came right up to the booth. I tensed, ready to stand if Edward did, but he stayed seated though his hands were out of sight under the table. He probably had a gun out. I dropped my napkin accidentally on purpose and when I came out from under the table, the napkin was in one hand, and the Browning Hi-Power was in the other. The gun was under the table out of sight, but it was pointed at the bad guys. From under the table the shot probably wouldn't kill anyone, but it would make a big hole in someone's leg, or groin, depending on how tall the person was who happened to be standing in the wrong place at the wrong time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Harold," Edward said, "you brought backup." His voice was still Ted's voice, more lively than his usual, but it was no longer a pleasant voice. I couldn't have told you what had changed in the voice, but it raised the tension level another notch. Becca scooted back until she couldn't see the men, hiding her face against Edward's sleeve. Donna reached for her, drawing her away from Edward and into her arms. Donna's face was openly fearful like the girl's. Edward's was open, almost smiling, but his eyes had gone empty. His real eyes peeking out. I'd seen monsters, real monsters, pale under that gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The short one with the scar shifted from foot to foot. "Yeah, this is Russell," he motioned at the Indian, "and this is Newt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I almost said, "Newt," aloud, but figured we had enough problems without me being a smart-ass. And people say I don't know when to keep my mouth shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tom and Benny still in the hospital?" Edward asked, voice still conversational. So far we hadn't attracted too much attention. We were getting some glances but not much else, yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're not Tom and Benny," Russell said. His voice matched the smile on his face, but I was reminded that smiling is just another way of baring teeth, another way to snarl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bully for you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His gaze swiveled to me. His eyes were so black that the iris and pupil had melted into one black hole. "You another psychic bleeding heart trying to keep the Indian lands safe for us poor savages?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I've been accused of a lot but never of being a bleeding heart." I smiled up at him and thought that if I pulled the trigger, I would take out most of his thigh, and maybe cripple him for life. He was standing that close to the table. Close enough that I wanted him to back up, but I was waiting on Edward, and he seemed just fine with them towering over us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You should leave now," Edward said, and his voice was beginning to sound like Edward. Ted was leaking away, leaving his face a blank, cold mask, his eyes empty as a winter sky. His voice was without inflection as if he were saying something totally different. Edward was emerging from his Ted mask like a butterfly pulling free of a chrysalis, though I wanted something less pretty, less harmless for the analogy, because what was pulling free into the light wasn't harmless, and if things went wrong it wasn't going to be pretty at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Russell leaned over the table, large hands spread across the top. He leaned way over so he would be close to Donna's face, ignoring both Edward and me. Either he was stupid, or he figured we wouldn't draw first blood in a public place. He was right about me, but I wasn't so sure about Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You and your friends stay out of our way, or you are going to get hurt." He wasn't smiling when he said it. His voice was flat and ugly. "You've got a cute little girl there. Be a shame if something happened to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna paled and clutched Becca tighter. I don't know what Edward had planned because it was Peter who spoke. "Don't you threaten my sister." His voice was low and angry, no fear showed through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Russell's gaze flicked to Peter, and he leaned over into his face. Peter sat unmoving, until their faces were inches apart but his eyes flickered back and forth like they were trying to escape. His hands gripped the seat edge as if he were literally holding on to keep from backing down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what are you going to do about it, little man?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted?" I made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Russell's eyes flicked to me, then back to Peter. He was enjoying the boy's fear and the show of bravado. Hard to be tough muscle if you can't make a fourteen-year-old boy back down. He'd finish scaring Peter then turn to me. I don't think he considered me a threat. His mistake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I couldn't see Edward through Russell's bulk, but I heard his voice, cold and empty, "Do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, I didn't shoot him. That wasn't what I'd asked permission to do or what Edward had given the go ahead on. How did I know this? I just did. I switched the gun to my left hand, and let out a breath, long and soft, until my shoulders were relaxed. I centered myself like I learned for years in Judo, and now Kenpo. I visualized my fingers going into his throat, through the flesh. When fighting for real, you don't visualize hitting someone. You visualize throwing the punch through them and out the other side. Though I would hold back a little. You can collapse a man's windpipe with this move, and I didn't want to go to jail over this. I dropped my right hand down to the seat beside me and brought my hand up with two fingers like a spear pointed. Russell saw the movement, but didn't react in time. I drove my fingers into his throat coming to my feet with the strength of the blow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gagged, hands going to his throat, half collapsing on the table. I used my right hand to drive his face into the table, once, twice, three times. Blood spurted from his nose, and he slid bonelessly across the tabletop to end up on floor, staring up at the ceiling, gagging, trying to breathe through his injured throat and the smashed nose. I think if he could have breathed better, he'd have passed out, but it's hard to pass out when you're gagging. He rocked and fell to the floor, gagging, eyes rolled back into his head, not focused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was standing beside the booth, staring down at him. My gun was still in my left hand, at my side, unobtrusive against my black jeans. Most people wouldn't even see the gun. They'd see the blood and the man on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold and the tall Newt were standing there, frozen, staring down at Russell. Harold shook his head sadly. "You shouldn't have ought to have done that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was standing beside the booth, blocking their view of Donna and Becca. He spoke softly, so his voice wouldn't carry much beyond our little circle. "Don't ever threaten these people again, Harold. Don't come near them for any reason. Tell Riker that they are off limits, or the next time it won't just be a broken nose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see the guns," Harold said, voice low. He bent down beside Russell. The big man's eyes still weren't focused. His blue T-shirt had turned purple with blood. Harold was shaking his head. He looked up at me. "Who the hell are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita Blake," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head again. "Don't know the name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess my reputation does not proceed me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It will," Harold said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "Peter, get some napkins."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter didn't ask questions. He just got a double handful of napkins from the dispenser on the table and handed them my way. I took them with my right hand and held them out to Harold. He took them, watching my face, eyes flicking to the gun still bare against my leg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shoved the napkins against Russell's nose and took one arm. "Get his other arm, Newt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a distant wail of sirens coming closer. Someone had called the cops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Russell was still unsteady on his feet. They'd shoved napkins into his flattened nose, and he looked both silly and grotesque with the bloody napkins sticking out of his nose. He had to clear his voice twice before he could speak, his voice sounded rough, clogged, painful, "You fucking bitch! I am going to hurt you so bad for this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When you can stand without help and you've got your nose packed at the nearest emergency room, give me a call. I'd love a rematch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spat in my general direction but didn't have the aim, so it splattered harmlessly into the floor. Gross, but not very effective.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come on," Harold said. He was trying to move the show towards the door. The sirens were very close now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Russell wasn't finished. He turned, forcing the other two to turn with him. "I am going to fuck your bitch, and leave the girl and boy for the coyotes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Russell is not a fast learner," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Becca was crying now, and Donna was so pale, I was worried she was going to faint. I couldn't turn around enough to see Peter's face without turning away from the bad guys, so I don't know what he looked like. But it wasn't a pretty scene.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cops spilled in with Harold still trying to get Russell out the door. Edward and I used the confusion to put up our guns. The two uniforms were a little unsure whom to arrest, but the people actually testified to having heard Russell's threats, and seeing him "menace" us before I hurt him. I'd never seen so much witness cooperation. Most of the time people are deaf and dumb, but having a small, pretty little girl in tears helped people's memories. Technically, Russell could press assault charges on me, but everyone was jumping over themselves to say that he'd been threatening us. One man claimed he'd seen Russell pull a knife. Amazing how quickly details are added to a story. I could not corroborate the knife, but I had enough witnesses to the threats that I didn't think I'd be going to jail. Edward pulled out his Ted ID, and the officers knew him by reputation if not by sight. I pulled out my executioner's license and my gun carry permit. Technically, I was carrying concealed when my permit wasn't for this state. I explained I'd worn the jacket to keep from distressing the children. The cops nodded, wrote it down, and seemed to accept it all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It helped that Russell was being verbally abusive to the officers and was so obviously a badass, and I was so harmless looking, so small, so feminine, and so much less scary than he was. Edward gave them his address, said I'd be staying with him, and we were free to go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The restaurant offered us a different table, but strangely Donna and the kids had lost their appetites. I was still hungry, but no one asked me. Edward paid for the food, and declined a takeout order. I put the tip on the bloodstained table, way overtipping to try and make up for the mess. Then we left, and I still hadn't eaten today. Maybe if I asked nicely, Edward would run through a drive-up window at McDonalds. Any port in a storm.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36468551" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36468553" class="calibre7"></a>14 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">DONNA STARTED CRYING OUT in the parking lot. Becca joined her. Only Peter stayed silent and apart from the general hysteria. The more Donna cried, the more panicky the girl got, like they were feeding off each other. The girl was crying in those great hiccuppy sobs bordering on hyperventilation. I looked at Edward and raised my eyebrows, He looked blank. I finally gave him a push. He mouthed, "Which one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Girl," I mouthed back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knelt by them. Donna had settled down on the bumper of his Hummer cradling Becca in her lap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward knelt in front of them. "Let me take Becca for a little walk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna blinked up at him, as if she saw him, heard him, but wasn't really understanding. He reached for Becca and started prying her from her mother's arms. Donna's arms were limp, but the girl clung to her mother, screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward literally pried her small fingers away, and when she was free of her mother, Becca turned and clung to him, burying her face in his shoulder. He looked at me over the girl's head, and I shooed him away. He never questioned, just walked towards the sidewalk that edged the parking lot. He was rocking the girl slowly as he moved, soothing her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna had covered her face with her hands, collapsing forward until her face and hands met her knees. Her sobs were full-blown almost wails. Shit. I looked at Peter. He was watching her, and the look on his was disgusted, embarrassed. I knew in that instant that he'd been the adult in more ways than just shooting his father's killer. His mother was allowed hysterics, but he wasn't. He was the one who held together in a crisis. Damned unfair, if you ask me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Peter, can you excuse us for a few minutes?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed, then shrugged. "Fine, just don't interfere." I knelt in front of Donna, touching her shaking shoulders. "Donna, Donna!" There was no response, no change. It had been a long day. I got a handful of that short thick hair and pulled her head up. It hurt, and it was meant to. "Look at me, you selfish bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter moved forward, and I pointed a finger at him. "Don't." He settled back a step, but he didn't leave. His face was angry, watchful, and I knew that he might interfere regardless of what I said if I went much further. But I didn't have to go further. I'd shocked her. Her eyes were wide, inches from mine, her face drenched with tears. Her breathing was still coming in small chest-heaving gulps, but she was looking at me, she was listening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I released her hair slowly, and she stayed staring at me with a horrible fascination on her face as if I were about to do something cruel, and I was. "Your little girl has just seen the worst thing she's ever seen in her life. She was calming down, taking it in stride, until you started on the hysterics. You're her mother. You're her strength, her protector. When she saw you fall apart like that, it terrified her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't mean ... I couldn't help ... "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't give a shit what you feel or how upset you are. You're the mommy. She's the child. You are going to hold yourself together until she is not around to see you fall apart, is that clear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blinked at me. "I don't know if I can do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can do it. You're going to do it." I glanced up but didn't see Edward yet. Good. "You are the grownup, Donna, and you are by God going to act like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could feel Peter watching us, could almost feet him storing it away for later playback. He would remember this little scene and he would think on it, you could feel it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you have children?" she asked, and I knew what was coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what right do you have to tell me how to raise mine?" She was angry now, sitting up straighter, wiping at her face with short harsh movements.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sitting up on the bumper, she was taller than I was kneeling. I looked up into her angry eyes and told the truth. "I was eight years old when my mother died, and my father couldn't handle it. We got a phone call from a state trooper that told us she was dead. My father dropped the phone and started to wail, not cry, wail. He took me by the hand and walked the few blocks to my grandmother's house, wailing, leading me by the hand. By the time we got to my grandmother's we had a crowd of neighbors, all asking what was wrong, what was wrong. I was the one who turned to my neighbors and said, "My mommy's dead." My father was collapsed in the bosom of his family, and I was left standing alone, uncomforted, unheld, tears on my face, telling the neighbors what had happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna stared at me and there was something very close to horror on her face. "I'm sorry," she said in a voice that had grown soft and lost its anger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be sorry for me, Donna, but be a mother to your own daughter. Hold it together. She needs you to comfort her right now. Later when you're alone, or with Ted, you can fall apart, but please, not in front of the kids. That goes for Peter, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced at him, standing there, watching us, and she flushed, embarrassed at last. She nodded her head too rapidly, then visibly straightened. You could actually see her gathering herself. She took my hands, squeezing them. "I am sorry for your loss, and I apologize for today. I'm not very good around violence. If it's an accident, a cut, no matter the blood, I'm fine, honestly, but I just can't abide violence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drew my hands gently from hers. I wasn't sure I believed her, but I said, "I'm glad to know that, Donna. I'll go get ... Ted and Becca."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "Thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood, nodding. I walked across the gravel in the direction Edward had gone. I liked Donna less now, but I knew now that Edward had to get away from this family. Donna wasn't good around violence. Jesus, if she only knew who, what, she'd taken to her bed. She'd have had hysterics for the rest of her life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had walked down the sidewalk to stand in front of one of the many small houses. They all had gardens in front, well tended, well planned. It reminded me of California where every inch of yard is used for something because land is such a premium. Albuquerque didn't look nearly as crowded and yet the yards were crowded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was still holding Becca, but she was looking at something that he was pointing at, and there was a smile on her face that showed from two houses away. A tension I hadn't realized I was carrying eased from my back and shoulders. When she turned so that her face was full to me, I saw a sprig of lilac tucked into one of her braids. The pale lavender flower didn't match the yellow ribbons and dress, but hey, it was cute as hell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her smile faltered around the edges when she saw me. There was a very good chance that I wouldn't be one of Becca's favorite people. I'd probably scared her. Oh, well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward put her down, and they walked towards me. She was smiling up at him, swinging his arm a little. He smiled down at her, and it looked real. Even to me it looked real. You might have really believed he was Becca's adored and adoring father. How the hell were we going to get him out of their lives without screwing Becca over? Peter would be pleased if Ted went poof, and Donna ... She was a grown-up. Becca wasn't. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward smiled at me and said in his cheerful Ted voice, "How are things?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just dandy," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised eyebrows, and for a split second his eyes flinched going from cynical to cheerful so fast it made me dizzy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna and Peter are waiting for us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned so that the girl was between us. She glanced up at me, and her gaze was questioning, thoughtful. "You beat up that bad man," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I did," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know girls could do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made my teeth hurt. "Girls can do anything they want to do, including protect themselves and beat up bad guys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted said that you hurt that man because he said bad things to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward, but his face was all open and cheerful for the child and gave me nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's right," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted says that you'd hurt someone to protect me just like he would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I met her big brown eyes, and nodded. "Yes, I would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled then and it was beautiful, like sunshine breaking through clouds. She reached out her free hand to me, and I took it. Edward and I walked back to the parking lot, holding the child's hands while she half-walked, half-danced between us. She believed in Ted, and Ted had told her that she could believe in me, so she did. The odd thing was that I would hurt someone to protect her. I would kill to keep her safe. I looked across at Edward and for just a moment he looked back at me from the mask. We stared at each other over the child, and I didn't know what to do. I didn't know how to get us all out of the mess that he had made.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Becca said, "Swing me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward counted out, "One, two, three," and swung her up and out, forcing me to swing her other arm. We moved across the parking lot, swinging Becca between us while she gave that joyous, full-throated laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We sat her down laughing in front of her mother. Donna was composed and smiling. I was proud of her. Becca looked up at me, shining. "Mommy says I'm too big to swing now, but you're strong, aren't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled at her, but I looked at Edward when I said, "Yes, I am."</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36468802" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36468804" class="calibre7"></a>15 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">DONNA AND EDWARD DID a tender but decorous good-bye. Peter rolled his eyes and scowled as if they'd done a lot more than a semi-chaste kiss. He'd have had a cow if he could have seen them smooching earlier at the airport. Becca kissed Edward on the cheek, giggling. Peter ignored it all and got in the car as soon as he could as if afraid "Ted" might try to hug him, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward waved until the car turned onto Lomos and out of sight, then he turned to me. All he did was look at me, but it was enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's get in the car and get some air conditioning going before I grill you about what the hell is going on," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He unlocked the car. We got inside. He started the engine and the air conditioner, though the air hadn't had time to cool yet. We sat in the expensive hum of his engine with the hot air blowing on us, and silence filled the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you counting to ten?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Try a thousand and you'll be closer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ask. I know you want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, we'll skip the tirade about you dragging Donna and her kids into your mess and go straight to who the hell is Riker and why did he send goons to warn you off?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"First, it was Donna's mess, and she dragged me into it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My disbelief must have shown on my face because he continued, "She and her friends are a part of an amateur archeology society that tries to preserve Native American sites in the area. Are you familiar with how an archaeological dig is done?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A little. I know they use string and tags to mark where an object is found, take pictures, drawings, sort of like you do for a dead body before you move it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trust you to come up with the perfect analogy," he said, but he was smiling. "I've gone with Donna on weekends with the kids. They use freaking toothbrushes and tiny paint brushes to gently clean the dirt away, or dental picks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you have a point," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pot hunters find a site that is already being explored, or sometimes one that hasn't been found, and they bring in bulldozers and backhoes to take out as much as possible in the least amount of time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gaped at him. "But that destroys more than they can possibly take out, and if you move an object before its site is recorded, it loses a lot of its historical value. I mean the dirt it's found in can help date it. What is found near an object can tell all sorts of things to a trained eye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pot hunters don't care about history. They take what they find and sell it to private collectors or dealers who aren't too particular about how an object was found. A site that Donna was volunteering on was raided."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She asked you to look into it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You underestimate her. She and her psychic friends thought they could reason with Riker, since they were pretty sure it was his people behind it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "I don't underestimate her, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She and her friends didn't understand what a bad man Riker is. Some of the really big pot hunters hire bodyguards, goon squads, to help take care of the bleeding hearts, and even the local law. Riker is suspected of having been behind the deaths of two local cops. It's one of the reasons that things went en smoothly in the restaurant. All the local cops know that Riker's a suspected top killer, not personally, but of hiring it done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled, not a pleasant smile. "I wonder how many traffic tickets he and his men have acquired since it happened."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough that his lawyer filed a harassment suit. There is no proof that Hiker's people were involved, just the fact that the cops were killed at a dig that had been partially bulldozed, and an eye witness that saw a car with a partial plate that might have been one of his trucks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is the witness still among the living?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My, you do catch on quick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I take it that's a no."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's missing," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So why come after Donna and her kids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because the kids were with her when she and her group formed a protest line protecting a site that was on private land that Riker had gotten permission to bulldoze. She was their spokesperson."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stupid, she should not have taken the kids."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like I said, Donna didn't understand how bad a man Riker was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her group was manhandled, abused, beaten. They fled. Donna had a black eye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what did Ted do about this?" I was watching his face, arms crossed over my stomach. All I could see was his profile, but it was enough. He hadn't liked it, that Donna had gotten hurt. Maybe it was just that she belonged to him, a male pride thing, or maybe ... maybe it was more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna asked me to have a talk with the men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I take it that would be the two men that you put in the hospital. I seem to remember you asking Harold if two guys were still in the hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only two in the hospital, and none in a grave. You must be slipping."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I couldn't kill anyone without Donna knowing, so I made an example of two of his men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me guess. One of them would be the man who gave Donna the black eye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward smiled happily. "Tom."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the other one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He pushed Peter and threatened to break his arm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. The air had begun to cool, and it raised goose bumps even through my jacket, or maybe it wasn't the cold. "The second guy has a broken arm now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Among other things," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward, look at me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned and gave me his cool blue gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Truth, do you care for this family? Would you kill to protect them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd kill to amuse myself, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, and leaned close to him, close enough to study his face, to try and make him give up his secrets. "No jokes, Edward, tell me the truth, Are you serious about Donna?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You asked me if I loved her and I said, no."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head again. "Dammit, don't keep evading the answer. I don't think you do love her. I don't think you're capable of it, but you feel something. I don't know exactly what, but something. Do you feel something for this family, for all of them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face was blank, and I couldn't read it. He just stared at me. I wanted to slap him, to scream and rant until I broke through his mask into whatever lay underneath. I'd always been on sure ground with Edward, always known where he stood, even when he was planning to hurt me. But now suddenly, I wasn't sure about anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My God, you do care for them." I slumped back in my seat, weak. I couldn't have been more astonished if he'd sprouted a second head. That would have been weird, but not this weird.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, Edward, you care for them, all of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked away. Edward, the stone cold killer, looked away. He couldn't or wouldn't meet my gaze. He put the car in gear and forced me to buckle my seat belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let him pull out of the parking lot in silence, but when we were sitting at the stop sign waiting for the traffic to clear on Lomos, I had to say something. "What are you going to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," he said. "I don't love Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned slowly onto the main street. "She's a mess. She believes in every new age bandwagon that comes along. She's got a good head for business, but she trusts everyone. She's useless around violence. You saw her today." He was concentrating very hard on the driving, hands gripping the wheel tight enough for his knuckles to be white. "Becca is just like her, trusting, sweet, but ... tougher, I think. Both the kids are tougher than Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They've had to be," I said, and couldn't keep the disapproval out of my voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know, I know," he said. "I know Donna, everything about her. I've heard every detail from cradle to the present."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did it bore you?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some of it," he said carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But not all of it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, not all of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying that you do love Donna?" I had to ask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, no, I'm not saying that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was staring so hard at his face that we could have been driving on the far side of the moon for all the attention I gave the scenery. Nothing mattered more right that second than Edward's face, his voice. "Then what are you saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying that sometimes when you play a part too long, you can get sucked into that part I and it becomes more real than it was meant to be." I saw something on his face that I had never seen before, anguish, uncertainty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying that you are going to marry Donna? You're going to be a husband and a father? PTA meetings, and the whole nine yards?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not saying that. You know I can't marry her. I can't live with her and two kids and hide what I am twenty-four hours a day. That good an actor I'm not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what are you saying?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying ... I'm saying that part of me, a small part of me, wishes I could."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him opened-mouthed. Edward, assassin extraordinaire, the undead's perfect predator, wished he could have not a family, but this family. A trusting new age widow, her sullen teenage son, and a little girl that made Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm look jaded, and Edward wanted them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I trusted myself to be coherent, I said, "What are you going to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I couldn't think of anything helpful to say, so I resorted to humor, my shield of last resort. "Just please tell me they don't have a dog and a picket fence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "No fence, but a dog, two dogs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind of dogs?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled and glanced at me, wanting to see my reaction. "Maltese. Their names are Peeka and Boo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, shit, Edward, you're joking me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna wants the dogs included in the engagement pictures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him, and the look on my face seemed to amuse him. He laughed. "I'm glad you're here, Anita, because I don't know a single other person who I'd have admitted this to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you realize that your personal life is now more complicated than mine is?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Now I know I'm in trouble," he said. And we left it on a lighter note, on a joke, because we were more comfortable that way. But Edward had confided in me about a personal problem. In his way he'd come to me for help about it. And being who I was, I'd try to help him. I thought we would solve the mutilations and murders, eventually. I mean violence and death were our specialties. I was not nearly so optimistic about the personal stuff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward did not belong in a world with a woman who had a pair of toy dogs named Peeka and Boo. Edward was not now, nor ever would be, that cutesy. Donna was. It wouldn't work. It just wouldn't work. But for the very first time I realized that if Edward didn't have a heart to lose, that he wished he had one to give. But I was reminded of the scene in <em class="calibre9">The Wizard of Oz </em>where Dorothy and the Scarecrow bang on the Tin Man's chest and hear the rolling echo. The tinsmith had forgotten to put in a heart. Edward had carved his own heart out of his body and left it on a floor somewhere years ago. I'd known that. I just never knew that Edward regretted the loss. And I think until Donna Parnell came along, he hadn't known it either.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_18" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36469191" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36469193" class="calibre7"></a>16 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">EDWARD DID TAKE ME through a drive-up window, but he didn't want to stop. He seemed anxious to get to Santa Fe. Since he was rarely anxious about anything, I didn't argue. I requested we go through a carwash while I ate my French fries and cheeseburger. He didn't say a word, just drove into one beside the highway that let us ride through in the car. When I was little, I'd loved watching the suds slide down the windows and the huge brushes roll by. It was still nifty, though not the thrill a minute it had been when I was five. But the carwash did mean that I had a clear view out all the windows. The dirty windows had made me feel ever so slightly claustrophobic. I'd finished my food before we left Albuquerque. I sipped on my soda as we drove out of town and towards the mountains. These were not the black mountains, but a different range that looked more "normal." They were jagged and rocky looking, with a string of glittering light near their base.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's with the light show," I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The glitter, what is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt his attention shift from the road, but he was wearing his sunglasses, and I couldn't really see his gaze shift. "Houses, the sun is hitting the windows on the houses."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never seen sunlight on windows glitter like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Albuquerque is at 7,000 feet. The air is thinner than you're used to. It makes light do strange things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at the sparkling windows like a line of jewels imbedded in the mountains. "It's beautiful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved his whole head. This time so I knew he was really looking at it. "If you say so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After that we stopped talking. Edward never did idle chatter, and apparently he had nothing to say. My mind was still reeling from Edward being in love, or as close as he would probably ever get. It was just too weird. I couldn't think of a single useful thing to say so I stared out the window until I thought of something worth saying. I had a feeling it was going to be a long quiet drive to Santa Fe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hills were very round, covered in dry brownish grass. I had the same feeling I'd had when I stepped off the plane in Albuquerque -- desolate. I'd thought the hills were close until I spotted a cow standing on one. The cow looked tiny, small enough for me to cover with two fingers held up, which meant the "hills" were really small mountains and not nearly as close as they appeared to the road. It was late afternoon or early evening depending on how you looked at it. It was still daylight, but you could feel night looming even in the brightness. The day had worn away like a piece of candy sucked too long. No matter how bright the sunshine, I could feel the darkness pressing close. Partly it was my mood -- confusion always makes me pessimistic -- but it was also an innate sense of the coming night. I was a vampire executioner, and I knew the taste of night on the breeze just as I knew the feel of dawn pressing against the darkness. There had been times when my life had depended on dawn coming. Nothing like near death experiences to hone a skill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sunlight had begun to fade to a soft evening gloom when I'd finally had enough of the silence. I still had nothing helpful to say about his personal life, but there was the case. I'd been asked here to help solve a crime, not to play Dear Abby, so maybe if I just concentrated on the crime, we'd be okay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there anything about the cases that you've withheld from me? Anything I'm going to be pissed that I didn't know beforehand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Changing the subject?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't aware we were on a subject," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know what I meant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "Yeah, I know what you meant." I slumped in my seat as far as the seatbelt would allow, arms crossed over my stomach. My body language was not happy, nor was I. "I don't have anything to add to the Donna situation, or nothing helpful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So concentrate on business," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You taught me that," I said, "you and Dolph. Keep your eye and mind on the important stuff. The important stuff is what can get you killed. Donna and her kiddies aren't a threat to life so put them on the back burner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, his normal close-lipped, I-know-something-you-don't-know smile. It didn't always mean he knew something I didn't. Sometimes he did it just to irritate. Like now. "I thought you said you'd kill me if I didn't stop dating Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rubbed my neck against the expensive seats and tried to ease a tension that was beginning at the base of my skull. Maybe I had been invited here to play Dear Abby, at least in part. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were right, Edward. You can't just leave. It would screw up Becca for one thing. But you cannot keep dating Donna indefinitely. She's going to start asking for a date for the wedding, and what are you going to say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, neither do I, so let's talk about the case. At least with that we've got a solid direction."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We do?" he glanced at me as he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We know we want the mutilations and murders to stop, right?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's more than we know about Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying you don't want me to stop seeing her?" he asked, and that damn smile was back. Smug, he looked smug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying I don't know what the hell I want you to do, let alone what you should do. So let's leave it alone until I get some brilliant idea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great," I said. "Now back to the question I asked. What haven't you told me about the crimes that you think I should know, or rather that I think I should know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't read minds, Anita. I don't know what you'll want to know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be coy, Edward. Just spill the beans. I don't want any more surprises on this trip, not from you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was quiet for so long, I thought he wasn't going to answer. So I prompted him, "Edward, I mean it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm thinking," he said. He moved in his seat, shoulders tightening and loosening as if he were trying to get rid of tension, too. I guess, even for him, this had been a stressful day. Odd to think of Edward letting anything truly stress him. I'd always thought he walked through life with the perfect Zen of the sociopath, so that nothing truly bothered him. I'd been wrong. Wrong about a lot of things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went back to watching the scenery. There were cows scattered close enough to the road that you could make out color and size. If it wasn't a Jersey, a Guernsey, or a Black Angus, I didn't know it. I watched the strange cows standing at impossible angles on the steep hillsides and waited for Edward to finish thinking. Twilight seemed to last a long time here, as if the light of day gave up the fight slowly, struggling to remain and keep the darkness at bay. Maybe it was just my mood, but I wasn't looking forward to darkness. It was as if I could sense something out there in those desolate hills, something waiting for the night, something that could not move during the day. It could be just my own overactive imagination, or I could be right. That was the hard part about psychic abilities: sometimes you were right, and sometimes you weren't. Sometimes your own anxiety or fear could poison your thinking and make you, almost, literally see ghosts where there were none.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were, of course, ways to find out. "Is there a place where you can I pull over out of sight of the main road?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm ... sensing something, and I just want to make sure I'm not imagining it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't argue. When the next exit came up, he took it. We took a side road from the exit. It was dirt and gravel and full of huge dry potholes. The shocks on his Hummer took the road like silk flowing down hill, comfy. A soft roll of hills hid us from the main highway, but the road was very flat in front of us, giving a clear view of the road as it went almost straight towards a distant rise of hills. There were a handful of tiny houses on either side of the road, the major cluster some ways ahead with a small church sitting to one side by itself, as if it were part of the houses and not. The church had a steeple with a cross on top of it, and I assumed a bell inside of it. Though we were too far away to be sure. The town, if it were a town, looked down on its luck but not empty. There were people there and eyes to see us. Just our luck, the land had been so empty and the road we go down has a town.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop the car," I said. We were as far from the first house as we could get without backtracking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pulled over to the side of the road. The dust rose in a cloud to either side of the car, settling over the clean paint job in a dry powder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys don't get much rain up here, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said. Anyone else would have elaborated, but not Edward. Even the weather wasn't a topic of conversation unless it affected the job.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got out of the car and walked a little way into the dry grass. I walked until I could no longer sense Edward or the car. When I looked back, I was yards away, Edward was standing on the driver's side door, arms crossed on the roof, hat tilted back so he could watch the show. I don't think there was another person I knew who wouldn't have asked at least one question about what I was about to do. It would be interesting to see if he asked any questions afterwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darkness hung like a soft silken cloth, hanging against the sky, and the living light. It was a soft comfortable twilight, an embracing dark. A breeze blew across the open land and played with my hair. Everything felt fine, good. Had I imagined? Was I letting Edward's problems get to me? Was the memory of the survivors in their air-compressed hospital room making me see shadows?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I almost just turned around and walked back to the car, but I didn't. If it were my imagination, then it wouldn't hurt to check, and if it wasn't ... I turned and faced away from the car, away from the distant houses, and looked nut into the emptiness. Of course, it wasn't really empty. There was grass rustling in the wind, it sounded so dry, like corn in autumn just before it's harvested. The ground was covered in a thin layer of pale reddish-brown gravel with paler dirt showing through. The ground ran until it met the hills that continued on and on towards the darkening sky. Not empty, just lonely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took a deep cleansing breath, let it out and did two things at once: I dropped my shields and spread my arms wide, hands reaching. I was reaching with my hands, but it wasn't just my hands. I reached outward with that sense I have -- magic, if you like the word. I don't. I reached outward with that power that let me raise the dead and mix with werewolves. I reached outward towards that waiting presence that I'd felt, or thought I'd felt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There, there like a fish tugging on my line. I turned to face the direction of the road. It was in that direction, going towards Santa Fe. It -- I had no better word. I felt its eagerness for the coming night and knew that it could not move in daylight. And I knew that it was large, not physically, but psychically, because we were not close to it, and yet I'd picked it up miles away. How many miles I couldn't say, but far, very far to have sensed it. It didn't feel evil. That didn't mean it wasn't evil, just that it didn't think of itself as evil. Unlike people, preternatural entities are rather proud of being evil. They embraced their malignancy because whatever this was, it wasn't human. It wasn't physical. Spirit, energy, pick a word, but it was up ahead, and it was not contained in any physical shell. It was free floating. No, not free ... Something slammed into me, not physically, but as if a psychic truck had run me down. I was on my butt in the dirt, trying to breathe, as if someone had hit me in the chest and knocked the wind out of me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard Edward's running footsteps, but I couldn't seem to turn around. I was too busy relearning how to breathe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knelt by me, gun in hand. "What happened?" He was looking out into the thick twilight, not at me, searching, searching for the danger. His sunglasses were gone, and his face was very serious as he searched for something to shoot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gripped his arm, shaking my head, trying to talk. But when I finally had air enough, all I said was, "Shit, shit, shit!" It wasn't helpful, but I was scared. Most of the time when I get this scared, I get cold, shocky, but not when it's psychic shit. When something goes wrong with "magic," I never go shocky or get cold, I stay warm. If anything it's like tingling, warm, as if I'd stuck my finger in a light socket. Whatever "it" was, had sensed me and shut me down</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled my shields around me like clutching a coat against a blizzard, but strangely it had backed off. Though if that one swat of power was any indication, it could slice me, dice me, and serve me on toast if it wanted to. It hadn't wanted to. I was glad, thrilled, but why hadn't it hurt me worse? How had I sensed it from so far away, and how had it sensed me? Usually, my greatest talent is with the dead. Did that mean whatever "it" was, was dead, or had something to do with the dead? Or was this one of the new psychic abilities that my teacher, Marianne, had warned me might crop up. God, I hoped not. I didn't need more strange shit in my life. I had plenty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I forced myself to stop the useless cursing, and said, "Put up the gun, Edward. I'm all right. Besides, there's nothing to shoot and nothing to see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put a hand under my arm and pulled me to my feet before I was ready. I'd have been very happy to stay sitting for a while. I leaned on him, and he started moving us back towards the car. I stumbled and finally had to tell him, "Stop, please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held me up, still searching the new dark, gun still in hand. I should have known he'd keep the gun out. It was his security blanket -- sometimes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could breathe again, and if Edward stopped dragging me on, I might be able to walk. The fear had faded because it was useless. I'd tried a bit of "magic," and I hadn't been good enough. I was learning ritual magic, but I was a beginner. Power isn't enough. You've got to know what to do with it, like a gun with the safety on. It makes a fine paperweight, but that's about it unless you know what to do with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slid into the car, had my door closed and locked before Edward opened his door. "Tell me what happened, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "It would serve you right if I just looked at you and smiled."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something crossed his face, a frown, a snarl, quickly lost to that perfect blankness he could manage. "You're right. I've been a secret-loving bastard, and it would serve me right. But you're the one who said we needed to stop the pissing contest and solve the crime. I'll stop if you will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Agreed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Start the car and get us out of here." Somehow I didn't like sitting on the nearly deserted road in the freshly spilled darkness. I wanted to be moving. Sometimes movement gives you the illusion that you're doing something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward started the car, turned around in the weeds and drove back towards the highway. "Talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never been to this area before. For all I know what I sensed is always here, just some local bugaboo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you sense?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something powerful. Something that's miles away towards Santa Fe. Something that may be connected to the dead in some way, which would explain why it called to me so strongly. I'm going to need to find a good local psychic to see if this thing is always around or not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna will know some psychics. Whether they're good, I can't say, and I'm not sure she can either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a place to start," I said. I snuggled into my seatbelt, hugging myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got any local animators, necromancers, anyone who works with the dead? If it is something connected to my type of power, then an ordinary psychic might not sense it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know of any, but I'll ask around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were back out on the highway. The night was very dark, as if thick clouds hid the sky. The headlights seemed very yellow against the blackness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you think this whatever-it-is has anything to do with the mutilations?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know a hell of a lot," he said. He sounded grumpy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's the problem with psychic shit and magic. Sometimes it's not very helpful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never seen you do anything like what you just did. You hate the mystical crap."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I do, but I've had to accept what I am, Edward. This mystical crap is a part of who and what I am. I can't run from it because it is me. You can't hide from yourself, not forever, and you can't ever outrun yourself. I raise the dead for a living, Edward. Why should it be a shock that I may have other abilities?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him, but he was watching the road, and I couldn't read his face. "It's not," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I called you in to be backup not just because you're a shooter, but because you know more about preternatural stuff than anyone else I know, that I trust. You hate the psychics and the mediums, because you are one, but you still deal in reality, and that makes you different from the rest of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're wrong, Edward. I saw a soul today hovering in that room. It was real, just as real as the gun in your holster. Psychics, witches, mediums, they all deal in reality. It's just not the same reality that you deal with, but it is real, Edward, it is very, very real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't say anything to that, just let the silence fill the car, and I was content with silence because I was tired, terribly, terribly tired. I'd found that doing psychic shit sometimes exhausted me a hell of a lot faster than physical labor. I ran four miles every other day, lifted weights, took Kenpo class, and Judo, and none of it made me as tired as having stood in that field and opened myself to that thing. I never sleep in a car because I don't trust the driver not to have a wreck and kill me. That is the truth about why I don't sleep in cars, no matter what I say out loud. My mother was killed in a car accident, and I've never really trusted cars since.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I settled down in my seat, trying to find a comfortable place for my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly so tired, so tired my eyes burned. I closed my eyes just to rest them, and sleep dragged at me like a hand pulling me under. I could have fought it, but I didn't. I needed the rest, and I needed it now, or I wouldn't I be worth shit soon. And the thought crossed my mind as I let myself relax that I did trust Edward. I really did. I slept huddled in the seat and didn't wake until the car stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're here," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I struggled to sit up, feeling stiff, but rested. "Where?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted's house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat up straighten Ted's house? Edward's house. I was finally going to get to see where Edward lived. I was going to snoop and strip some of his mystery away. If I didn't get killed, finding out Edward's secrets would make the entire trip worthwhile. If I did get killed, I'd come back and haunt Edward, see if I could make him see ghosts after all.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_19" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36469642" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36469644" class="calibre7"></a>17 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE HOUSE WAS ADOBE and looked old or genuine, not that I was an expert, but there was a feel to the house of age. We unloaded my luggage from the back of the Hummer but I had eyes mostly for the house. Edward's house. I'd never really hoped to see where he lived. He was like Batman. He rode into town, saved your ass, then vanished, and you never really expected an invitation to see the Bat Cave. Now here I was standing in front of it. Cool.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't what I'd pictured. I'd thought maybe a high-tech condo in the city. LA maybe. This modest appearing adobe house hugging the land was just not what I'd had in mind. It was part of his secret identity, his Tedness, but still, Edward lived here, and there had to be more reason than just Ted would have liked it. I was beginning to think I really didn't know Edward at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The light over the front door switched on, and I had to turn away, shielding my night vision. I'd been staring right at it when it glared to life. I had two thoughts: one, who had turned on the light; two, the door was blue. The door was painted a blue-violet, a rich, rich color. I could also see the window nearest the door. Its trim was painted the same vibrant blue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd seen it at the airport, though with more flowers and an addition of fuchsia. I asked, "What's with the blue door and trim?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I like it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen a lot of doors painted blue or turquoise on a lot of houses since I've been here. What gives?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very observant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A failing of mine. Now explain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They think witches can't cross a door painted blue or green."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I widened my eyes. "You believe that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I doubt most of the people who paint their doors believe it anymore, but it's become part of the local style. My guess is that most people who do it, don't even remember the folklore behind it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like putting out a jack o' lantern at Halloween to frighten the goblins away," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And because I am so observant, who turned on the porch light?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Either Bernardo or Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your other backups," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't wait to meet them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the spirit of cooperation, and no more surprises, Olaf doesn't like women much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean he's gay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, and implying that to him will probably mean a fight, so please don't. If I'd known I'd be calling you in, I wouldn't have called him in at all. The two of you in the same house on the same case is going to be ... a fucking disaster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's harsh. You think we can't play nice together."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd almost guarantee it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened, and our conversation cut off abruptly. I was wondering if it was the dreaded Olaf. The man in the doorway didn't look much like an Olaf, but then what does an Olaf look like?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man was six foot, give or take an inch. It was hard to tell his exact height because his lower body was completely covered by a white sheet that he had clutched in one hand at his waist. The sheet spilled around his feet like a formal dress, but from the waist up he was anything but formal. He was lean and muscular with a very nice set of abs. He was tanned a lovely even brown, though some of that was natural color because he was American Indian, oh, yes, he was. His hair was waist length falling over one shoulder and across the side of his face, heavy and solid black, tusseled from sleep, though it was early to be in bed. His face was a soft, full triangle, with a dimple in his chin, and a full mouth. Was it racist to say that his features were more white than Indian, or was it just true?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can close your mouth now," Edward said near my ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I closed my mouth. "Sorry," I mumbled. How embarrassing. I didn't usually notice men this much, at least men I didn't know. What was wrong with me today?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man folded the sheet over his free arm until his legs showed and he could come down the two steps without tripping. "Sorry, I was asleep, or I'd have come out to help sooner." He seemed perfectly at ease in his sheet, though he was going to a lot of effort to spill it over the same arm that was holding it in place, so he could grab a suitcase.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo Spotted-Horse, Anita Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was holding the sheet with his right hand, and he looked mildly perplexed as he dropped the suitcase and started the process of switching everything to the other hand. The sheet slipped down in front, and I had to turn my head away, fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept my head turned because I was blushing and wanted the darkness to hide it. I waved my hand vaguely behind me. "We'll shake hands later when you're wearing clothes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's voice. "You flashed her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Great, everybody noticed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry," Bernardo said, "truly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can get the luggage," I said. "Go get a robe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt someone move up behind me, and I wasn't sure how I knew, but I knew it wasn't Edward. "You're modest. I expected a lot of things from Edward's descriptions but not modesty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned around slowly, and he was standing too close, invading the hell out of my personal space. I glared at him. "What were you expecting? The Whore of Babylon?" I was embarrassed and uncomfortable and that always made me angry. The anger showed in my voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The half-smile on his face faded round the edges. "I didn't mean any offense." His hand came up as he said it, as if he'd touch my hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped back out of reach. "What's with the touchie-feelie routine?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I saw the way you looked at me in the doorway," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the heat ride up my face, but I didn't turn away this time. "If you want to come to the door looking like a Playgirl centerfold, don't blame me for staring. But don't make more of it than it is. You're nice eye candy, but the fact that you're coming on this strong isn't flattering to either of us. Either you're a whore, or you think I am. The first I'm willing to believe. The second I know isn't true." I walked up to him now, invading his space, the blush gone, leaving me pale and angry. "So back off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was his turn to look uncertain. He stepped back, put the sheet into as much of a cover as it could be, and bowed. It was an old-fashioned, courtly movement, as if he'd done it before and meant it. It was a nice gesture with his hair spilling all around, but I'd seen better. Not for six months, but I had seen better.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised up, and his face was solemn. He looked sincere. "There are two kinds of women that hang around with men like Edward, like me, that know what we are. The first are whores, no matter how many guns they own; the second is strictly business. I call them Madonnas because they never sleep with anyone. They try to be one of the guys." The smile played along his lips again. "Forgive me if I'm disappointed that you're one of the guys. I've been here for two weeks, and I'm getting lonely."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Two weeks, poor baby." I pushed past him and grabbed my overnight case. I looked at Edward. "Next time remind me about everybody's little foibles."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his hand in a Boy Scout oath. "I have never seen Bernardo do that with any woman at first meeting her, I swear it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes narrowed, but I looked into his eyes, and believed him. "How did I get the honor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up my suitcase, and did smile. "You should have seen the look on your face when he came down the steps in the sheet." He laughed and it was very masculine. "I've never seen you that embarrassed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo came up next to us. "I really, honestly, didn't mean to flash you. I just don't wear anything to bed so I threw this on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's Olaf?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pouting that you're bringing her in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great," I said. "One of you thinks he's a Lothario, and the other one won't talk to me. That's just perfect." I turned and followed Edward toward the house.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo called from behind us. "Don't mistake Olaf, Anita. He likes women in his bed, and he's not nearly as particular as I am about how he gets them there. I'd be more careful of him than of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was just inside the door. He turned back and looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is Bernardo right? Is Olaf dangerous to me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can tell him about you what I told him about Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were all still in the doorway, not quite in the house. "I told him if he touched her, I'd kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you come to my rescue, then he'll never work with me, never respect me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "That's true."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "I'll handle it on my own."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo had moved up behind me, closer than I wanted him. I used the carry-on bag to accidentally move him back a step or two. "Olaf has been in prison for rape."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Edward and let my disbelief show on my face. "Is he serious?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward just nodded. His face had gone to its usual blankness. "I told you in the car that I wouldn't have invited him if I'd known you were coming in on this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you didn't mention the rape conviction," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "I should have."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What else should I know about good ol' Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's it." He looked behind me to Bernardo. "Can you think of anything else she needs to know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only that he brags about the rape and what he did to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right," I said, "you've both made your point. I only have one question."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward just looked at me expectantly, Bernardo said, "Shoot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I kill another one of your backups, do I owe you another favor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not if he deserves it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dumped the bag on the doorsill. "Shit, Edward, if you keep putting me together with fucking crazies and I keep having to defend myself, I'll be owing you favors until we're in our graves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo said, "You're serious. You really killed his last backup."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. "Yeah, I'm serious. And I want permission to off Olaf if he gets out of hand, without having to owe Edward another pound of flesh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who'd you kill?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Harley," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit, really?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked up to Edward, invading his space, trying to read past the blank blue of his eyes. "I want permission to kill Olaf if he gets out of hand, without owing you another favor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if I don't give it?" he asked, voice low.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Drive me to a hotel because I'm not staying in a house with a bragging rapist if I can't kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at me for a long slow moment, then gave a small nod. "Done, as long as he's in this house. Outside the house, play nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I would have argued, but it was probably the best I was going to get. Edward was very protective of his backups, and since I was one of them, I could appreciate the attitude. I picked up my bag from the floor, and said, "Thank you. Now where's my room?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, she's going to fit in just fine," Bernardo said, and there was something in his voice that made me look at his face. His handsome face had thinned to a blankness, an emptiness that left his dark brown eyes like two burned holes in his face. It was as if he'd dropped his mask and let me sec inside because I'd proven myself monster enough to handle it. Maybe I had. But I knew one thing: Olaf or Bernardo, either one, better not walk in their sleep.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_20" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36470024" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36470026" class="calibre7"></a>18 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE WAS A FIREPLACE against the far wall, but it was narrow and white, formed of the same smooth whiteness as the walls. There was an animal skull mounted over the fireplace. I would have said deer, but the skull was heavier than that and the horns long and curving. Not a deer, but something close kin, and not from this country. The narrow mantlepiece held two tusks, as in elephant tusks, and smaller animal skulls. A low white couch faced the fireplace. A large block of unpolished marble sat to one side of it with a small white china lamp on it. A small alcove above the lamp held a huge chunk of white crystal. There was a black lacquered table against the far wall between two doorways. A second larger lamp sat on the table. Two chairs sat facing each other in front of the fireplace. They had carved arms with winged lions on the arms and legs. They were black leather and looked vaguely Egyptian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your room is this way," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "I've waited a long time to see your home. Don't rush me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mind if I take your luggage through to your room while you explore?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Help yourself," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gracious of you," he said, and put an extra touch of sarcasm into his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward picked up both my bags, and said, "Come on, Bernardo. You can get dressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't let us look around on our own," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't ask."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's one of the joys of being a girl and not a guy," I said. "If I'm curious, I just ask."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They went through a far door, though the room was small enough that "far" was relative. There was wood to one side of the fireplace in a woven basket of pale, almost white reeds. I ran my hand down the smooth coolness of the black marble coffee table that sat nearest the fireplace. There was a black vase on the table full of what looked like either small wild flowers or large black-eyed-Susans. The deep yellow gold and the brown center didn't really match anything in the room. Even the Navajo rug that took up most of the floor was in shades of black, white, and gray. There were more flowers in an alcove between the far doorways. The alcove was large enough to be a window except it didn't look out on anything. The flowers spilled from the opening like a mass of gold and brown water, a huge riotous bouquet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When Edward came back into the room, without Bernardo, I was sitting on the white couch with my feet stretched out underneath the coffee table. I had my hands clasped over my stomach and was trying to picture a roaring fire and a cold winter evening. But somehow the fireplace looked too clean, too sterile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat down beside me, shaking his head. "Happy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not a restful room," I said, "and for Heaven's sake look at all the wall space. Get some paintings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I like it this way." He had settled down on the couch beside me, feet stretched out, hands on his stomach. He was mimicking me, but even that couldn't ruin my mood. I was going to see every room in detail before I left. I could have tried to be cool about it, but I didn't sweat being cool with Edward. We'd moved beyond that in our strange friendship. I really wasn't trying to play king of the hill with Edward. The fact that he was still playing the game with me just made him look silly. Though I hoped the game-playing was over for this trip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I'll get you a painting for Christmas," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't buy Christmas presents for each other," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were both staring at the fireplace as if visualizing that make-believe Inc. "Maybe I'll start. One of those big-eyed children or a clown on velvet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't hang it if I don't like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. "Unless it's from Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was very still suddenly. "Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna added the flowers, didn't she," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"White lilies, or an orchid maybe, but not wild flowers, not in this room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She thinks they brighten up the place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, they do," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe I'll tell her how much you love those pictures of dogs playing poker and she can buy you some prints."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She wouldn't believe it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but I bet I could come up with something that she would believe that you'd hate just as much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me. "You wouldn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I might."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This sounds like the opening to blackmail. What do you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him, studying that blank face. "So you're admitting that Donna and her crew are important enough for you so that blackmail would work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just looked at me with those pitiless eyes, but the blank face wasn't enough now. There was a chink in his armor big enough to drive a truck through. "They're hostages, Edward, if anyone ever thinks of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked away from me, closing his eyes. "Do you really think you're telling me something I haven't thought about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My apologies, you're right. Like teaching your grandmother to suck eggs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" He turned and was half-laughing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Just an old saying. It means that I'm lecturing someone who taught me what I'm lecturing about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what have I taught you?" he asked, humor dying, face turning serious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't take all the credit. My mother's death started the lesson early, but I learned that if you care for people, they can die. If other people know you care for someone, they can use that person against you. You ask why I don't date humans. Hostages, Edward. My life is just too damn violent for cannon fodder to be near and dear to my heart. You taught me that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And now I've broken the rule," he said, voice soft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And where does that leave Richard and Jean-Claude?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I make you uncomfortable and now it's my turn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just answer the question."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about it for a second, or two, then answered truthfully, because I'd spent a lot of the last six months thinking about it, about them. "Jean-Claude is so <em class="calibre9">not </em>cannon fodder. If anyone I've ever met knows how to take care of himself, it's Jean-Claude. I guess you can't be a four-hundred-year-old anything without being a survivor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Richard?" Edward was watching my face as he asked, studying me as I so often studied him, and I wondered for the first time if my face was empty more often than it was full, if I hid my emotions, my thoughts, even when I wasn't meaning to. How can you really tell what your own face shows?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Richard can survive a shotgun blast to the chest with non-silver shot. Can you say the same about Donna?" It was blunt, maybe too blunt, but it was truthful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes shut down like curtains had pulled, hiding, hiding. There was no one home. It was the face he wore when he killed sometimes, though sometimes when he killed he wore the most joyous expression I ever saw on his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You told me that they huddle around your humanity. Are you saying you huddle around their monstrousness?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked into that so carefully unreadable face, and nodded. "Yeah, it took me a while to realize it and longer to accept it. I've lost enough people in my life, Edward. I'm tired of it. The chances are very good that both the boys will outlive me." I held up my hand before he could say it. "I know that Jean-Claude isn't alive. Trust me. I probably know that better than you do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys look serious. Talking about the case?" Bernardo walked into the room wearing blue jeans and nothing else. He'd tied all that hair back in a loose braid. He padded barefoot towards us, and it made my chest tight. It was one of Richard's favorite ways to walk around the house. He only put shoes and a shirt on to go out or if company was coming over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched a very handsome man walk towards me, but I wasn't really seeing him. I was seeing Richard, missing him. I sighed and struggled to sit up straighten on the couch. Call it a hunch but I was betting that Edward didn't have heart to heart talks with Bernardo, at least not about Donna.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had also straightened. "No, we weren't talking about the case," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked from one to the other of us with a smile playing on his lips. But his eyes didn't match. He didn't like the serious air and it not being about the case, and him not knowing what it was about. I'd have asked. Edward wouldn't have told me, but I'd have still asked. Sometimes it was good to be a girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said you had the files on the Santa Fe cases," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded, standing. "I'll bring them to the dining room. Bernardo, show her the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My pleasure," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, "Treating Anita like a girl would be a mistake, Bernardo. It would piss me off to have to replace you this late in the game." With that, Edward left through the far right door. There was a wash of night air and a buzz of insects before he closed the door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me, shaking his head. "I've never heard Edward talk about any woman the way he talks about you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at him. "Meaning?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dangerous. He talks about you like you're dangerous." Intelligence showed in his solid brown eyes, an intelligence that had been hiding behind his good looks and charming smile. An intelligence that didn't show when he had his monster face on. For the first time I thought that it might be a mistake to underestimate him. He was more than just a gun for hire. How much more remained to be seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What, I'm supposed to say I am dangerous?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you?" he asked, still studying me with that intense expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled at him. "Well, you get to go down the hall first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tilted his head to one side. "Why don't we go together, side by side?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because the hall's too narrow, or am I wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not wrong, but do you really think I'll shoot you in the back?" He spread his arms wide and turned a slow circle. "Do I look armed?" He was smiling when he faced me again, charming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't buy it. "Unless I run my hands through all that thick hair and down your pants, I don't know you're unarmed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile faded a touch. "Most people don't think about the hair." Which meant that he did have something hidden away. If he was truly unarmed, he'd have teased and offered me a chance to search.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's got to be a blade. The hair isn't thick enough to hide a gun, not even a derringer," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached behind his head and drew out a slender blade that he'd woven through his hair. He held it up, then flipped it hilt to blade, back and forth, dancing it through his long slender fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't it an ethnic stereotype that you're good with a knife?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed, but not like it was funny. He bounced the blade once more in his hand, and it made me tense. I was still standing behind the couch, but knew that if he were really good, I'd never get behind cover or draw my gun in time. He was just too damn close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can cut my hair and put on a suit, but I'm still going to be an Indian to most people. If you can't change it, might as well embrace it." He slipped the knife back into his hair, making it look smooth and easy. I'd have had to use a mirror and even then I'd have probably cut off half my hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You try to play in corporate America?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So now you don't do corporate stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I still play in corporate America. I protect the suits that want flashy muscle. Something exotic to impress their friends about what a big shot they are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do the knife act on command?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "Sometimes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hope it pays well," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "It either pays well or I don't do it. I may be their token Indian but I'm a rich token Indian. If you're as good as Edward thinks you are, you'd do better at bodyguard work than I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because the majority of protective work wants their bodyguard to blend in. They want you not to be flashy or exotic. You're pretty, but it's more a girl next door pretty, nothing too beautiful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I agreed with him, but said, "Oh, that won you a lot of brownie points."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've pretty much told me I don't have a chance so why should I bother lying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to smile. "Point taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You may be a little dark around the edges, but you can pass for white," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not passing, Bernardo. I am white. My mother just happened to be Mexican."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got your father's skin?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah, what of it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one's ever got up in your face about it, have they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about it. My stepmother's hurried comments to strangers that I was not hers. No, I wasn't adopted. I was her stepdaughter. Me and Cinderella. The really rude ones would ask, "What was her mother?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Judith would always answer quickly, "Her mother was Mexican." Though lately it was Hispanic-American. No one could accuse Judith of not being politically correct on the issue of race. My mother had died long before people had worried about political correctness being in vogue. If someone asked, she always said proudly, "Mexican." If it was good enough for my mother, it was good enough for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That memory I didn't share. I'd never really shared it with my father. I wasn't about to start with a stranger. I chose another memory that didn't hurt quite so much. "I was engaged once until his mother found out my mother had been Mexican. He was blond and blue-eyed, the epitome of WASP breeding. My future-in-law didn't like the idea of me darkening her family tree." That was a brief, unemotional way to say some very painfully things. He had been my first love, my first lover. I thought he was everything to me, but I wasn't everything to him. I'd never let myself fall so completely into anyone's arms before or since. Jean-Claude and Richard were both still paying the bill for that first love.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you think of yourself as white?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah. Now ask me if I think I'm white enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me. "Are you white enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not according to some people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like who?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like none of your damn business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spread his hands. "Sorry, didn't mean to step on your toes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, you did," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think so?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said. "I think you're jealous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That I can pass and you can't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth and emotions flowed over his face like water; anger, humor, denial. He finally settled on a smile, but it wasn't a happy one. "You really are a bitch, aren't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "You don't pull on my chain and I won't pull on yours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deal," he said. The smile flashed wider. "Now, allow me to escort your lily white ass to the dining room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Lead on, tall, dark, and studly, as long as I get to watch your ass while we walk down the hall."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only if you promise to tell me how you like the view."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I widened my eyes. "You mean give you a critique on your butt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded and the smile looked happy now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you this big an egotist or just trying to embarrass me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Both," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile spread to a grin. "You are as smart as you look."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just get moving, Romeo. Edward doesn't like to be kept waiting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn straight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We went down the short hallway; him leading, me following. He put an extra glide into his walk, and yes, I watched the show. Call it a hunch, but I was betting Bernardo would actually ask me for the critique, probably out loud in front of other people. Why is it when you have a sure thing to bet on, there's never anyone around to take your money?</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_21" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36470577" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36470579" class="calibre7"></a>19 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE WERE MORE heavy dark beams in the dining room, more off-white walls. If the chairs were a clue, the dining table was black and silver. But the table was hidden under a tablecloth that looked like another Navajo rug. Though this one had some color, dull red stripes running with black and white. There was even a black metal candelabra with red candles in the middle of the table. It was nice to see some color that hadn't been added by Donna. It had taken me years to break Jean-Claude of his fixation on black and white decor. Since I was just Edward's friend and nothing more, it wasn't my business how he decorated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a fireplace in the corner nearly identical to the one in the living room except for a black piece of wood set into the white stucco. I would have called it a mantel, but it didn't stick out that far. The true mantel was decorated in more red candles of every shape and size, some sitting with their waxy bottoms directly on the mantel, some in black metal holders. There were two round ones that stuck up above the rest on the kind of holders where you spear the candle to hold it into place. A silver-edged mirror that looked antique was hung behind the candles so that when they were burned, you'd get their reflection. Strange, I hadn't thought Edward was the candlelight type.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were no windows in the room, just a molded doorway leading out the other side. The walls were utterly white and utterly blank. Somehow the lack of decoration made the room seem more claustrophobic rather than less.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man appeared in the far doorway. He had to bend over to keep his bald head from smacking the top of the door. He was taller than Dolph, who was six foot eight, which meant he was the tallest person I'd ever met. The only hair on his head was heavy black eyebrows and a shadow of beard along his chin and cheeks. He was wearing the draw string bottoms of men's pajamas. They were black and looked satin. He had on slippers, the kind that have no heels and always seem in danger of falling off. Olaf, because who else could it be, moved in the slippers like they were part of his flesh. Once he got over stooping through the door, he moved like a well-oiled machine, muscles rippling under his pale skin. He was tall, but there wasn't an ounce of fat on him. It was all hard, lean, muscle. He walked around the table towards us, and I moved without thinking to keep the table between us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped moving. I stopped moving. We stared at each other across the table. Bernardo was at the end of the table, nearest the door, watching us. He looked worried. Probably wondering if he was supposed to come to my rescue if I needed one. Or maybe he just didn't like the tension level in the room. I know I didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I hadn't moved away as he walked in, would the tension level have been lower? Maybe. But I'd learned long ago to trust my gut, and my gut said, to stay out of reach. But I could try and be nice. "You must be Olaf. I didn't catch your last name. I'm Anita Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes were dark brown set deep in the bones of his face like twin caves, as if even in daylight his eyes would be shadowed. He just looked at me. It was as if I had not spoken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried again. I'm nothing if not persistent. "Hello, Earth to Olaf." I stared into his face, and he never blinked, never acknowledged my words in any way. If he hadn't been glaring at me, I'd have said he was ignoring me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Bernardo, but kept my gaze on the big man across the table. "What gives, Bernardo? He does talk, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo nodded. "He talks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned my full attention back to Olaf. "You're just not going to talk to me, is that it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just glared at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think not hearing the dulcet sounds of your voice is some kind of punishment? Most men are such jabber mouths. Silence is nice for a change. Thanks for being so considerate, Olaf, baby." I made the last word into two very separate syllables.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not your baby." The voice was deep and matched that vast chest. There was also a guttural accent underneath all that clear English, German maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It speaks. Be still my heart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf frowned. "I did not agree with your being included on this hunt. We do not need help from a woman, any woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Olaf, honey, you need help from someone because the three of you haven't come up with shit on the mutilations."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A flush of color crept up his neck into his face. "Do not call me that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? Honey?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You prefer sweetheart, honeybun, pumpkin?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The color spread from pink to red, and was getting darker. "Do not use terms of endearment to me. I am no one's sweetheart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd been all set to make another scathing remark, but that stopped me, and I thought of something better. "How sad for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you talking about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How sad that you are no one's sweetheart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The color that had been fading from his face flushed dark now, almost as if he were blushing. "Are you feeling sorry for me?" His voice rose a notch, not yelling but like the low growl of a dog just before it bites. As he got more emotional, the accent got thicker. Very German, very lowland. Grandmother Blake was from Baden-Baden, on the border between Germany and France, but great-uncle Otto had been from Hamburg. I couldn't be a hundred percent sure, but it sounded like the same accent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone should be someone's sweetheart," I said, but my voice was mild. I wasn't angry. I was baiting him, and I shouldn't have. My only excuse was that all the talk of rape had made me scared of him, and I didn't like that. So I was doing something that was actually very masculine. I was pulling the tail of the beast to make myself feel braver. Stupid. The moment I realized why I was doing it, I tried to stop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am no one's fool, and that means I am no one's sweetheart." He spoke carefully, enunciating each word but his accent was thick enough to walk on. He had started to move slowly around the table, muscles tense like some big predatory cat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I flashed my jacket on the left side, showing the gun. He stopped moving forward, but his face was furious. "Let's start over, Olaf," I said. "Edward and Bernardo here told me what a big bad guy you were and that made me nervous, which made me defensive. When I'm defensive, I'm usually a pain in the ass. Sorry about that. Let's pretend that I wasn't being a smart ass, and you weren't being all big and bad, and start over."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stilled. That was the only word I had for it. The quivering tension in his muscles eased like water running down hill. But it wasn't gone, just shoved away somewhere. I had a glimpse into Olaf. He operated from a great dark pit of rage. That it was directed mostly at women was accidental. The rage needed some target or he'd turn into one of those people that drive their cars through restaurant windows and start shooting strangers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward has been most insistent that you are to be here, but nothing you will say can make me like it." His words were pulling free of the accent as he regained control of his temper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Are you from Hamburg?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked, and for an instant puzzlement replaced the sullenness. "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you from Hamburg?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He seemed to think about it for a second or two, then gave a small nod.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought I recognized the accent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scowl was back full force. "You are an expert on accents?" He managed to sound sarcastic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. My Uncle Otto was from Hamburg."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked again, and the scowl wilted around the edges. "You are not German." He sounded very sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My father's family is; from Baden-Baden on the edge of the Black Forest but Uncle Otto was from Hamburg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said only your uncle had the accent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By the time I came along, most of the family, except for my grandmother, had been in this country so long there was no accent, but Uncle Otto never lost his."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's dead now." Olaf made it half question, half statement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did he die?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Grandma Blake says Aunt Gertrude nagged him to death."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His lips twitched. "Women are tyrants if a man allows it." His voice was a touch softer now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's true of men or women. If one partner is weak, the other partner moves in and takes charge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nature abhors a vacuum," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We glanced at him. I don't know what the expressions were on our faces, but Bernardo held his hands up and said, "Sorry to interrupt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf and I went back to looking at each other. He was close enough now that I might not be able to draw the Browning in time. But if I moved away now, all my peace-making efforts would be for nothing. He'd either be insulted or see it as weakness on my part. Neither reaction would be helpful. So I stood my ground and tried not to look as tense as I felt, because no matter how calm I sounded, my stomach was in one hard knot. I had one chance to make this work. If I blew it, then the rest of this visit was going to be an armed camp, and we needed to be solving the crime, not fighting each other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are either a leader or being led," Olaf said. "Which are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll follow if someone's worth following."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And who decides, Anita Blake, who is worth following?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to smile. "I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His lips twitched again. "And if Edward put me in charge, would you follow me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I trust Edward's judgment, so yeah. But let me ask you the same question. Would you follow me if Edward put me in charge?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flinched. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Great, we know where we stand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And where is that?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sort of goal-oriented, Olaf. I came down here to solve a crime and I'm going to do that. If that means at some point taking orders from you, so be it. If Edward puts me in charge of you, and you don't like it, take it up with him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just like a woman to put the responsibility off on a man's shoulders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I counted to ten, and shrugged. "You talk like your opinion matters to me, Olaf. I don't give a damn what you think of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Women always care what men think of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I laughed then. "You know I was starting to feel insulted, but you are just too funny." I meant it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned towards me trying to use his height to intimidate. It was impressive, but I've been the smallest kid around for as long as I can remember. "I will not take it up with Edward. I will take it up with you. Or don't you have the balls to stand up to me?" He gave a harsh laugh. "Oh, I forgot, you don't have balls." He reached for me in a quick motion. I think he meant to grope me, but I didn't wait to see. I threw myself backward into the floor and was drawing the Browning before my butt hit the floor. Drawing the gun meant I didn't have time to slap my hands down and take the impact the way you were supposed to. I hit hard and felt the shock all the way up my spine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd drawn a blade as long as his forearm from somewhere. The blade was coming down, and the Browning wasn't quite pointed at his chest. It would be a race to see who drew first blood, but it was almost a guarantee that we'd both bleed. Everything slowed down to that crystalline vision, as if I had all the time in the world to point the gun, to avoid the blade, and at the same time everything was happening too fast. Too fast to stop it or change it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's voice cut through the room. "Stop it! The first one to draw blood, I will personally shoot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We froze in mid-action. Olaf blinked, and it was as if time had resumed normal flow. Maybe, just maybe, we weren't going to kill each other tonight. But I had the gun pointed at his chest, and his hand was still upraised with the knife. Though knife seemed too small a word, sword was more like it. Where had he pulled it from?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Drop the knife, Olaf," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have her put up the gun, first." I met those hard brown eyes and saw a hatred there like what I'd seen earlier in Lieutenant Marks' face. They both hated me for being things that I could not change: one for an innate God-given talent, and the other because I was a woman. Funny, how one unreasoning hatred looks so much like another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept the gun very steadily pointed at his chest. I'd let all the air go out of my body, and was waiting, waiting for Olaf to decide what we'd be doing tonight. Either we'd be fighting crime, or we'd be digging a grave, maybe two if he was good enough. I knew what my vote was, but I also knew that the final vote wasn't mine. It wasn't even Olaf's. It was his hatred's.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You drop the knife, and Anita will put up the gun," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or she will shoot me while I'm unarmed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She won't do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is afraid of me now," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe," Edward said, "but she's more afraid of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf looked down at me, a glimmer of puzzlement rising up through the hatred and anger. "I am going to shove this blade inside her. She fears me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell him, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hoped I knew what Edward wanted me to say. "I will shoot you twice in the chest. You may get a slice of me before you fall to the ground. If you're really good, you might even slit my throat, but you'll still be dead." I hoped he made up his mind soon because it was awkward holding a shooting stance while sitting on your butt. I was going to get a crick in my back if I didn't get to move soon. The fear was fading, leaving only a dull emptiness behind. I was tired, and the night was still young. Hours to go before I'd sleep. I was tired of Olaf. I had a feeling if I didn't shoot him tonight, I'd get another chance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you more afraid of, Anita -- Olaf or me?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept my gaze on Olaf and said, "You, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell him why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It sounded like a teacher telling his student what to say, but from Edward I'd take it. "Because you would have never let me get the drop on you like this. You would have never let your emotions compromise your safety."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf blinked at me. "You do not fear me?" He made it a question and seemed disappointed. There was something almost little-boyish about his disappointment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not afraid of anything I can kill," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward can be killed," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but can he be killed by anyone in this room? That's the question."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf looked at me, puzzled now more than angry. He began to lower the blade, slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, "Drop it," in a quiet voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf dropped the blade to the floor. It hit with a ringing clang.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got to my knees and then scuttled backwards along the edge of the table, lowering the gun as I moved. I got to my feet at the head of the table near Bernardo. I looked at him. "Move over around by Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't do anything," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just do it, Bernardo. I need a little space right now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth as if to argue, but Edward cut him off. "Do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo did it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When they were all at the other end of the room, I put the gun up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had an armful of cardboard box. It was overbrimming with files. He set it down on the tabletop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't even have a gun," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't need one," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf pushed past Edward to the hallway beyond. I hoped he was going pack and leave, but doubted we'd get that lucky. I hadn't known Olaf for hour, and I already knew why he was no one's sweetie.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_22" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36471046" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36471048" class="calibre7"></a>20 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A MURDER ALWAYS BREEDS a lot of paper, but a serial murder, you can drown in the paperwork. Edward, Bernardo, and I were swimming upstream. We'd been at it for about an hour, and Olaf hadn't come back. Maybe he had decided to pack up and go home. Though I hadn't heard any doors or cars, but I wasn't sure how soundproof the house was. Edward didn't seem bothered by Olaf's absence, so I didn't give it much attention either. I had read one report through back to front. One to get an overview and see if anything jumped out at me. One thing did. There were slivers of obsidian in the cut up bodies. An obsidian blade, maybe. Though we were in the wrong part of the world for it, or were we?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did the Aztecs ever get up this far?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward didn't treat it like a weird question. "Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I'm not the first one to point out the obsidian clue might mean Aztec magic?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks for telling me that we're looking for some sort of Aztec monster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The locals cops talked to the leading expert in the area. Professor Dallas couldn't come up with any deity or folklore that would account for these murders or the mutilations."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sound like you're quoting. Is there a report around here somewhere?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked out over the mound of papers. "Somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't there an Aztec deity that the priests skinned someone as an offering, or is that Mayan?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "The good professor couldn't make a connection. That's why I didn't tell you. The police have been looking into the Aztec angle for weeks. Nothing. I brought you down here to think different thoughts, not follow old ones."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd like to talk to the professor all the same. If that's okay with you." I made sure he got the sarcasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at the reports first, try to find what we've missed, then I'll introduce you to Professor Dallas."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, trying to read behind those baby blues and failing as usual. "When do I get to see the professor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That raised my eyebrows. "Gee, that is quick, especially since you think I'm wasting our time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She spends most nights in a club near Albuquerque."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She, being Professor Dallas," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's so special about this club?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If your career was Aztec history and mythology, wouldn't you just love to interview a real live Aztec?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A live ancient Aztec in Albuquerque?" I didn't try and keep the surprise out of my voice. "How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe not live," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A vampire," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has this Aztec vamp got a name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Master of the City calls herself Itzpapalotl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't that like an Aztec goddess?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talk about delusions of grandeur." I was watching his face, trying to catch a hint. "Did the cops talk to the vamp?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She wasn't helpful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't believe her, did you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither did the cops. But she was on stage at her club during at least three of the murders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So she's cleared," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which is why I want you to read the reports first, Anita. We've missed something. Maybe you'll find out what, but not if you keep looking for Aztec bogeymen. We raised that rock, and as much as the police would like it to be the Master of the City, it isn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So why the offer to take me down to see her tonight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just because she's not doing the murders, doesn't mean she can't have information that could help us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The police questioned her." I made it a statement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but funny how vampires don't like talking to the police, and how much they like talking to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know you could have just told me that we were seeing the Master Vamp of Albuquerque tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't going to take you down there tonight unless you got bitchy about it. I was actually hoping you wouldn't make the Aztec angle until you'd read everything first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you, it was a blind alley. We need new ideas. Things we haven't thought of, not things the police have already crossed off the list."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you haven't crossed this Itza-whatever off your list, have you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The goddess will let you call her by her English translation, Obsidian Butterfly. It's also the name of her club."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think she's involved, don't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think she knows something that she might share with a necromancer, but not a vampire executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I go down off duty, so to speak."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So to speak."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm Jean-Claude's human servant, one third of his little triumvirate of power. If I go visiting the Master of this City without police credentials, then I'll have to play vamp politics. I hate vamp politics."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked out over the table. "When you've read your hundredth witness report tonight, you may change your mind. Even vampire politics look good after reading enough of this shit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, Edward, you sound almost bitter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm the monster expert, Anita, and I don't have a fucking clue."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other, and again I had the sense of his fear, his helplessness, things that Edward just didn't feel. Or so I'd thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo came in with a tray of coffees. He must have caught something in the air because he said, "Did I miss something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said, and he went back to the papers in his lap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood and started sorting papers. "You haven't missed anything yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just love being lied to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're not lying," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then why is the tension level so high in here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, Bernardo," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo didn't take it as an insult. He just shut up and handed out the coffee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sorted out all the witness reports I could find, then spent the next three hours reading them. I'd read one report back to front and found out nothing the police and Edward hadn't known weeks ago. Now I was looking for something new, something that the police, Edward, the experts they'd called in, nobody had found. It sounded egotistical, but Edward seemed sure I'd find it, whatever it was. Though I was beginning to wonder if it was confidence in me or sheer desperation on Edward's part that made him so sure I'd find something. I'd give it my best shot, and that was all I could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down at several stacks of witness reports and settled in to read. I know most people read each report in full, or almost in full, then move to the next, but in a serial crime you were looking for a pattern. On serial murders I'd learned to divide the files up into parts: all the witness statements, then all the forensic reports, then the pictures of the crime scene, etc ... Sometimes I did the pictures first, but I was putting it off. I'd seen enough in the hospital to make me squeamish. So the pictures could wait, and I could still do legitimate work on the case without having to see all the horrors. Procrastination with a purpose, what could be better?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo kept making us all coffee and continued to play host, going back and forth when the coffee ran low, offering food, though we both declined. When he brought me my umpteenth cup of coffee, I finally asked, "Not that I'm not grateful, but you didn't strike me as the domestic type, Bernardo. Why the perfect host routine? It's not even your house." He took the question as an invitation to move closer to my chair until his jean-clad thigh was touching the arm, but it wasn't touching me so that was fine. "You want to ask Edward to go for coffee?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked across the table at Edward. He didn't bother to look up from the papers in his hands. I smiled. "No, I was more thinking I'd get my own."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo turned and leaned his butt against the table, arms crossed over his, chest. Muscles played in his arms as if he were flexing just a bit for my benefit. I didn't think he was even aware he was doing it, as if it were habit. "Truthfully?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him and sipped the coffee he'd brought me. "That would be nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've read the reports more than once. I don't want to read them again. I'm tired of playing detectives and wish we could just go kill something, or at least fight something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, too," Edward said. He was watching us now with cool blue eyes. "But we have to know what we're fighting, and the answer to that is in here somewhere." He motioned at the mounds of papers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo shook his head. "Then why haven't we, or the police found the answer in all this paper?" He ran his finger down the nearest stack. "I don't think paperwork is going to catch this bastard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled up at him. "You're just bored."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at me, a little startled expression on his face, then he laughed, head back, mouth wide as if he were howling at the moon. "You haven't known me long enough to know me that well." Laughter was still sparkling in his brown eyes, and I wished it were a different pair of brown eyes. My chest was suddenly tight with missing Richard. I looked down at the papers in my lap, not sure if it would show in my eyes. If my eyes showed sorrow, I didn't want Bernardo to see it. If my eyes showed longing, I didn't want him to misinterpret it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you bored, Bernardo?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo turned at the waist so he could see Edward with a minimum of movement. It put his bare chest facing me. "No women, no television, nothing to kill, bored, bored, bored."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found myself staring at his chest. I had an urge to rise up out of my chair spill the papers to the floor and run my tongue over his chest. The image was so strong, I had to close my eyes. I had feelings like this around Richard and Jean-Claude, but not around strangers. Why was Bernardo affecting me like this?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you all right?" He was bending over me, face so close that his face filled my entire vision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked back, pushing the chair and rising to my feet. The chair crashed to the floor, papers spilled everywhere. "Shit," I said with feeling. I picked up the chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bent down to help pick up the papers. His bare back made a firm curved line as he started shoveling the papers back into a pile. I watched the way the small muscles in his lower back worked, fascinated by it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped away from him. Edward was watching me from across the table. His gaze was heavy, as if he knew what I was thinking, feeling. I knew it wasn't true, but he knew me better than most. I didn't want anyone to know that seemed to be unwarrantedly attracted to Bernardo. It was too embarrassing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, "Leave us alone for a while, Bernardo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo stood with a bundle of papers, looking from one to the other of us. "Did I just miss something?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Edward said, "Now get out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me. He looked a question at me, but I gave nothing back. I could feel my face unreadable and empty. Bernardo sighed and handed me the papers. "How long?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll let you know," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wonderful, I'll be in my room when Daddy decides to let me come out." He stalked through the nearest door where Olaf had vanished through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one likes being treated like a child," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the only way to deal with Bernardo," Edward said. His gaze was very steady on my face, and he looked way too serious for comfort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started sorting the papers in my hands. I used the cleared space on the table that I'd made hours ago when I was still leaning over the table instead of slumping in the chair to read. I concentrated on sorting and didn't look up until I felt him beside me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked then and found his eyes weren't blank. They were intense, but I still couldn't read them. "You said you hadn't been dating either of them for six months."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you been dating anyone else?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No sex, then," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head again. My heart was beating faster. I so did not want him to figure this out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked away then, unable to meet his eyes. "I don't have any moral high ground to preach from anymore, Edward, but I don't do casual sex, you know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're jumping out of your skin every time Bernardo comes near you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Heat climbed up my face. "Is it that noticeable?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only to me," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was grateful for that. I spoke without looking at him. "I don't understand it. He's a bastard. Even my hormones usually have better taste than that." Edward was leaning against the table, arms crossed over his white shirt. It was exactly how Bernardo had been sitting, but it didn't move me, and I didn't think it was just the shirt. Edward just did not affect me in that way and never would.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's handsome, and you're horny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heat that had been fading, flared until it felt like my skin would burn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't say it that way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him then, and let the anger show in my eyes. "Damn you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe your body knows what you need."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I widened eyes at him. "Meaning what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A good uncomplicated fuck. That's what I mean." He still looked calm, unmoved as if he'd said something entirely different.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fuck Bernardo. Give your body what it needs. You don't have to go back to the monsters to get laid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I cannot believe you said that to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not? If you were having sex with someone else, wouldn't it be easier to forget Richard and Jean-Claude? Isn't that part of their hold on you, especially the vampire. Admit it, Anita. If you weren't celibate, you wouldn't be missing them as much."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to protest, closed it, and thought about what he'd said. Was he right? Was part of the reason I was still mooning over them the lack of sex? Yeah, I guess it was, but it wasn't just that. "I miss the sex, yeah, but I miss the intimacy, Edward. I miss looking at them both and knowing they're mine. Knowing I can have every inch of them. I miss Sunday after church and having Richard stay over to watch old movies. I miss watching Jean-Claude watch me eat a meal." I shook my head. "I miss them, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your problem, Anita, is that you wouldn't know an uncomplicated fuck if it bit you on the ass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wasn't sure whether to smile or be mad, so my voice was a little amused and a little angry. "And your relationship with Donna is so uncomplicated?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was at the beginning," he said. "Can you say that about either of yours?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I'm not a casual person, Edward, not in anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed. "I know that. When you give your friendship, it's for life. When you hate someone, it's forever. When you say you're going to kill someone, you do it. One of the things making you squirm about your boys is the fact that for you, love should be forever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what's wrong with that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "Sometimes I forget how young you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what does that mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It means you complicate your life, Anita." He raised a hand before I could say it, and said it for me. "I know I've screwed up with Donna, but I went into it meaning to be casual, meaning it to just be part of the act. You always go into everything like it's life or death. Only life and death are life and death."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you think that sleeping with Bernardo would fix all that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It'd be a start," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your final word?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, I won't bring it up again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great," I said and looked into that blank, Edward face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Being with Donna has made you more personal, more warm and fuzzy. I'm not comfortable with the new Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither am I," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward went back to his side of the table, and we both started reading again. Usually, silence between us was companionable and not strained. But this quiet was full of unsaid advice: me to him about Donna, and him to me about the boys. Edward and I playing Dear Abby to each other. It would have been funny if it hadn't been so sad.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_23" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36471629" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36471631" class="calibre7"></a>21 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">AN HOUR LATER, I'd finished the witness reports. I stretched my lower back while still sitting in the chair, just bending slowly at the waist until my hands touched the floor or almost touched the floor. Three stretches, and I could press my palms flat to the floor. Better. I got up and checked my watch. Midnight. I felt stiff and strange, estranged from this quiet room and the peaceful surroundings. My head was filled with what I'd read, and what I'd read hadn't been peaceful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Standing, I could see Edward. He'd moved to the floor, lying flat on the floor, holding the reports up in front of his face. If I had lain down, I'd have been asleep. Edward always did have a will of iron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced at me. I got a glimpse of what he was looking at. He'd moved on to the pictures. Something must have shone on my face because he placed the pictures face down on his chest. "You finished?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With the witness reports, yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went around the table and sat in the chair he'd started the night in. He stayed lying on the floor. I would have said like a contented cat, but there was something more reptilian about him than feline; a coldness. How could Donna miss it? I shook my head. Business, concentrate on business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The majority of the houses are isolated ones, mostly because of the wealth of the owners. They've got enough money to give them land and privacy. But three of the houses were located in developments like the Bromwells' with neighbors all around. Those three attacks occurred on one of the few nights that all the neighbors were gone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I thought this was going to be a brainstorming session. I want your ideas."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I brought you down here for a set of fresh eyes, Anita. If I tell you all our old ideas, it may lead you down the same wrong paths we've already taken. Tell me what you see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. What he said made sense, but it still felt like he was keeping secrets. I sighed. "If this was a person, I'd say he or they stake out the houses night after night, waiting for that one night when all the neighbors were out of the way. But do you know the odds of an entire street clearing out on any given night in the suburbs?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Long odds," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Damn straight. A few people had plans for that night. One couple went to a niece's birthday party. Another family had their once a month dinner with the in-laws. Two couples from different crime scenes were both working late, but the rest of the people didn't have plans, Edward. They just all left home about the same time on the same night for different reasons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was watching me, eyes blank, but steady, intense, and neutral at the same time. From his face I didn't know whether I was saying something he'd heard a dozen times before, or something brand new. Detective Sergeant Dolph Storr likes to stay neutral and not influence his people so I was kind of used to it, but Edward made Dolph seem positively loaded with influence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I continued, but it was like slogging through mud without any feedback at all. "The detective in charge of the second case, he noticed it, too. He went out of his way to ask why they left their houses. The answers are almost identical where the police take the time to ask details."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go on," Edward said, face still blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dammit, Edward. You've read all the reports. I'm just repeating what you already know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But maybe you'll end up someplace new," he said. "Please, Anita, just finish your thought."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They all got restless. A spur of the moment trip to get ice cream with the kids. One woman decided to go grocery shopping at eleven o'clock at night. Some of them just got in their cars and went for a drive, no place in particular. Just had to get out for a while. One man described it as cabin fever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A woman, Mrs. Emma ... shit. I've read too many names in too short a space of time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was it an unusual name?" Edward asked without a single change of expression.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him and leaned across the table, lying on it to reach the reports. I shuffled through them until I found the one I wanted. "Mrs. Emma Taylor said, 'The night just felt awful. I just couldn't stand being inside.' She goes on to say, 'Outside the air was suffocating, hard to breathe.' "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I want to talk to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think she's a sensitive, if not a psychic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing in the reports that say she's either."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you have the gift and you ignore it or pretend it's not real, it doesn't go away. Power will out, Edward. If she's a strong sensitive or a psychic that has neglected her powers for years, then she'll be either depressed or manic. She'll have a history of treatment for mental illness. How serious will depend on how gifted she is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He finally looked interested. "You're saying that having psychic ability can drive you crazy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying that psychic ability can masquerade as mental illness. I know ghost hunters that hear the voices of the dead like whispers in their ears, one of the classic symptoms of psycophernia. Empaths, people who draw impressions from other people, can be depressed because they're surrounded by depressed people, and they don't know how to shield themselves. Really strong clairvoyants can spend their lives getting visions from everything they touch, unable to turn it off, again seeing things that aren't there. Psycophernia. Demonic possession can mask itself as multiple personality. I could give you examples for the next hour matching mental illness with different types of power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've made your point," he said. He sat up and didn't seem the least bit stiff. Maybe the floor was good for his back. "I still don't understand why you want to talk to this woman. The report was taken by Detective Loggia. He was very thorough. He asked good questions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You noticed that he took more time with why people left than the rest of the cops, just like I noticed it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shrugged. "Loggia didn't like the way everyone cleared out. Too damn convenient, but he couldn't come up with anything that tied the people together into a conspiracy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A conspiracy?" I almost laughed then stopped at the seriousness in his face. "Did someone actually suggest that an entire upper-middle-class to more-than-middle-class neighborhood conspired together to kill these people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was the only logical explanation for why they all left within thirty minutes of each other on the night of the murders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So they investigated all these people?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's where some of the extra paperwork comes from."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing?" I made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A few neighborhood squabbles over kids destroying the flowers, one affair where the husband that turned up dead was banging the next door neighbor's wife." Edward grinned. "The neighbor was lucky that the other man got cut up in the middle of a string of serial killings. Otherwise, he'd have been the top of the hit parade."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could it have been a copycat?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The police don't think so, and believe me they tried to make the pieces fit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you. The police hate to let a good motive slide since most of the time motive isn't even one of their top priorities. Most people kill over stupid things, impulse, screw motive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you have a logical reason why all these people would vacate their houses just at the right time for the killer, or killers, to make their move?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up at me, a slight smile on his face. "I'm listening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's very common in hauntings for people to be uncomfortable in the area where the ghost is strongest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're saying ghosts did this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I waved a hand. "Wait, wait until I'm done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small nod. "Dazzle me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know if it's dazzling, but I think it's how it was done. There are spells that supposedly can make a person uneasy in a house or a place. But the spells I read in college were for one person or one house, not a dozen homes and twice that many people. I'm not even sure a coven working together could affect that big an area. I don't know that much about actual witchcraft of any flavor. We'll need to find a witch to ask. But I think it's moot. I just mentioned it as a possibility."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a possibility the cops haven't come up with yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice to know I haven't entirely wasted the last five hours of my life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you don't think it was witches," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Witches of almost any flavor believe in the threefold rule. What you give out comes back to you threefold."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What goes around comes around," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly, and no one is going to want this shit coming back on them three-fold. I would have said they also believe in 'do what you will, only harm none,' but you can have bad pagans just like you can have bad Christians. Just because your belief says something is wrong doesn't mean someone's not going to break the rules."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So what do you think caused them all to leave their homes just when our killer needed it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think whatever is doing this, is big enough and powerful enough to simply arrive on the spot and want the people to go, and they went."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward frowned at me. "I'm not sure I understand what you mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our monster arrives, knows which house it wants, and he fills the rest of the houses with dread, driving the other families out. That takes a hell of a lot of power, but to then turn around and shield the murder house so that that one family doesn't flee, that's truly impressive. I know some preternatural critters that can throw a sense of unease around them. Mostly I think to keep hunters at bay. But I don't know anything that can cause this kind of controlled panic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you're saying you don't know what it is," he said, and there was just a tinge of disappointment in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet, but if this is true, then it rules out a hell of a lot of things. I mean some vampires can throw out fear like this, but not on this large a scale, and if they could do the other houses, they couldn't shield the murder house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know a vampire kill when I see it, Anita, and this isn't one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I waved my hands in the air as if clearing it. "I'm just throwing out examples, Edward. Even a demon couldn't do this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about a devil?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, saw he was serious, so I gave him a serious answer. "I won't go into how long it's been since anyone saw a devil, a greater demon, above ground, but if it were anything demonic, I'd have felt it today in the house. The demonic leave a stain behind, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Couldn't one that was powerful enough hide its presence from you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably," I said. "I'm not a priest, so probably, but whatever is mutilating these people doesn't want to hide." I shook my fiend. "It's not demonic, I'd almost bet the farm on it, but again I'm not a demonologist."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that Donna can help us locate a witch tomorrow. I don't think she knows any demonologists."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are only two in the country. Father Simon McCoupen, who has the record in this century in this country for number of exorcisms performed, and Doctor Philo Merrick, who teaches at the University of San Francisco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sound like you know them," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I attended a class taught by Merrick, and a talk given by Father Simon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know you were that interested in demons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's just say that I'm tired of running into them without knowing much about them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, sort of expectantly. "When did you run into a demon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I won't talk about it after dark. If you really want to know, ask me again tomorrow when the sun is shining."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me for a second or two, as if he wanted to argue, but he let it go. Which was just as well. There are some stories, some memories, that if you tell them after dark, they seem to gain weight, substance, as if there are things listening, waiting to hear themselves spoken of again. Words have power. But even thinking about them is sometimes enough to make the air in a room heavy. I'd gotten better over the years at turning off my memories. It was a way to stay sane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The list of what our murderer isn't is getting longer," Edward said. "Now tell me what it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know yet, but it is preternatural." I leafed through the pages until I found the part I'd marked. "Four of the people now in the Santa Fe hospital were only found because they wondered outside their homes at night, skinned and bleeding. Neighbors found them both times."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a transcript of the 911 call somewhere in this mess. The woman who found the Carmichaels had hysterics over the phone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about what I'd seen in the hospital and tried to imagine finding one of my neighbors, perhaps a friend, in that condition in the middle of the street. I shook my head and chased the image back. I did not want to imagine it. I had enough nightmares of my own, thank you very much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't blame her," I said. "But my point is this: how could they walk around in that condition? One of the survivors attacked his neighbor when the man came to help. He bit his shoulder so badly that the man was taken to the hospital with the mutilation victims. Doctor Evans said that they have to restrain all the patients in Albuquerque or they try to get up and leave. Don't you find that strange?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, it's all strange. Is there a point in here somewhere?" And I heard that thread of tiredness in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that whatever skinned them was, is, calling them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Calling them how?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The same way a vampire calls a person he's bitten and mind-raped. The skinning or something about it gives the monster a hold over them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why doesn't the monster just take them with him the night he skins them?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you prove that the skinned victims are being called by some bogeyman?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but if the doctors would okay it, I wonder where one of the survivors would go, if no one stopped him. Maybe the mutilation victims could lead us right to the thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You saw the hospital today, Anita. They are not going to let us take one of their patients and set him free. Between you and me, I'm not sure I could stand to watch it myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, the great Edward, afraid at last," another voice said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We both turned to see Olaf standing in the far doorway. He was wearing black dress slacks, and a black polo-style shirt, the shirtsleeves a little short for his long arms. I guess there just aren't a lot of choices when you wear Jolly Green Giant sizes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glided into the room, and if I hadn't spent so much time around vampires and shapeshifters, I'd have said he was good at gliding. For a human, he was very good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stood as he spoke. "What do you want, Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has the girl solved your mystery?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf stopped at the edge of the table closest to us. "Not yet. Such confidence you have in her. Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four hours and that is the best question you can come up with," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf turned to me with a snarl. "Shut up!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took a step forward, and Edward touched my elbow. He shook his head. I stepped back, gave them some room. Truthfully, I wasn't up to arm wrestling Olaf, and I couldn't really shoot him just for yelling at me. It kind of limited my options.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward answered Olaf's question. "When you look at her, Olaf, you see just the surface, just the small, attractive packaging. Underneath all that prettiness is someone who thinks like a killer, and a cop, and a monster. I don't know anyone else who bridges all three worlds as well as she does. And all the preternatural experts you find are specialists; they're witches, or clairvoyants, or demonologists." He glanced at me as he said the last, then back to Olaf. "But Anita is a generalist. She knows a little about most of it and can tell us whether we need to find a specialist, and what kind of specialist we need."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what kind of magical specialist do we need?" He put a lot of sarcasm into that question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A witch, someone who works with the dead." He'd remembered my earlier request about finding out what I'd sensed on the road. "We're making a list."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And checking it twice," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf turned to me. "Was that a joke?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A little one, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps you should not try to make jokes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned back to Edward. "You told me all this before she came. You waxed eloquent about her abilities. But I have worked with your magical people in the past, and you never talked about them as you speak of her. What is it about her that is so God damned special?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward glanced at me, then back to Olaf. "The Greeks believed that once there were no male and female, that all souls were one. Then the souls were torn apart, male and female. The Greeks thought that when you found the other half of your soul, your soul mate, that it would be your perfect lover. But I think if you find your other half, you would be too much alike to be lovers, but you would still be soul mates."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was fighting hard to keep my face from showing the growing surprise at this little speech. I hoped I was succeeding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you trying to say?" Olaf demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is like a piece of my soul, Olaf. "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are mad," Olaf said, "a lunatic. Soul mates, bah!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kind of agreed with Olaf on this one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then why is the thought of giving her a gun while I hunt her one of my greatest fantasies?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because you are mad," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hear, hear, but I didn't say it out loud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know that I have no greater compliment to give than that," Edward said. "If I wanted to kill you, Olaf, I would just do it. The same with Bernardo because I know that I'm better than both of you. But with Anita I'll never be sure unless we do go up against each other for real. If I die without knowing which of us is better, I'll regret the not knowing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf stared down at him. "You cannot mean to say that this girl, this <em class="calibre9">die Zimtzicke</em> of a girl is better than Bernardo or me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's exactly what I mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Die Zimtzicke meant a quarrelsome or bitchy woman. Couldn't really argue with that one. I sighed. Olaf had hated me before. Now he was going to feel forced to be competitive. This I did not need. And compliment though it was, it was not reassuring to know that Edward fantasized about killing me. Oh, excuse me, hunting me while I was armed to see which of us was better. Oh, yeah, that was much more sane.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I checked my watch. It was 1:30 A.M. "Frankly, boys, I don't know whether to be flattered or frightened, but I do know one thing. It's late, and I'm tired. If we are really going to see the big bad vampire tonight, then it has to be now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just don't want to look at the pictures tonight," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No, not just before trying to sleep. I don't even want to read the forensic reports tonight. I'll look at the gory remains first thing tomorrow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Afraid," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I met his angry eyes. "I need some sleep if I'm to function well while I'm here. If I see the pictures right before bedtime, I can't guarantee sleep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned back to Edward. "Your soul mate is a coward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, she's just honest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Edward." I went to stand closer to Olaf, so that I had to crane my neck back to see his face, and he loomed over me. There was really no way to get decent eye contact, so I stepped back to a more comfortable angle for my neck, and settled for meeting his deep-set eyes. "If I'd been a man I'd have probably felt compelled to look at the pictures, to prove myself worthy of all Edward's praise. But one of the good things about being a woman is that my level of testosterone poisoning is lower than most men's."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Testosterone poisoning?" Olaf looked confused. Probably not a new sensation for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Show me to my room, then explain it to him, Edward. I want to get some extras if I'm going to be interviewing vamps tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward led me past the brooding Olaf and out the door that everyone seemed to disappear through. The hallway was white and so unadorned it looked unfinished. He pointed out Bernardo's room as the first door and Olaf's was right beside mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really think Olaf and I bunking next door to each other is a good Idea?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By putting you right beside him, it shows him I'm not afraid for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I am," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Just take some basic precautions. You'll be fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice to know one of us confident. If you hadn't noticed, he outweighs me by like a ton."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're talking like it would be a standup fight. I know you, Anita. If Olaf comes through your door tonight, you'll just shoot him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I studied his face. "Are you setting him up so I will kill him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked, and I saw for a moment that I'd surprised him. "No, no. I meant what I said to Olaf. If I wanted him dead, I'd just kill him. I put you next door to him because I know how he thinks. He'll think it's a trap, too easy, and he'll behave himself tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about tomorrow night?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shrugged. "One night at a time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head and opened the door. Edward called to me before I could go inside or even turn on the light. I turned back to face him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know most women get all mushy when a man tells them they're his soul mate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not most women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His smile widened. "Amen to that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "You know what you said in there scares me. The thought that you fantasize about hunting me and killing me. That's creepy, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry," he said, but he was still smiling, still amused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But honestly if you'd said the soul mate stuff and meant it like lovey-dovey, that could have scared me more. I've known since we met that you might kill me some day, but fall in love with me ... that would be just too weird."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile faded a notch or two. "You know if we could love each other, our lives would be less complicated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Truth, Edward. Have you ever had a romantic thought about me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't even have to think about it. He just shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, either. I'll meet you out front by the car."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll wait for you here," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want you smarting off to Olaf on your way out if I'm not there to stop the fight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would I do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "Get the extra firepower and let's start the drive. I'd like to get to bed before dawn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good point." I went into the room, closing the door behind me. There was a knock on the door almost immediately. I opened it back up, slowly, but was pretty sure it was Edward. It was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll take you into the club as my guest, just a friend. If the vamps don't know who you are, they might be more careless around you, let something slip that would make sense to you, that wouldn't make sense to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happens if I get outted during the evening? Think Her Worship will resent you sneaking the Executioner into her club?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll tell her that you wanted to see the best show in town and thought that they might not want the Executioner around, but that you're strictly there in an unexecution work mode."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will you say it just like that, unexecution work mode?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Probably. She likes her men to be either very serious or very cute."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She. You talk like you know her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted only kills rogues. He is very welcome in a lot of the local monster hangouts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward the actor," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do good undercover work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you do, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it always makes you uncomfortable to see me do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "You're such a good actor, Edward, sometimes it makes me wonder which act is real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile faded, leaving his face blank, and empty like some of him had slithered away with his smile. "Go get your gear, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I closed the door with him still standing there. In some ways I understood Edward better than either of the men I had been dating. In other ways he was the biggest mystery of all. I shook my head, literally shaking it off, and looked around the small bedroom. If we came back here at dawn, I'd be tired, and tired could mean careless. I decided to make some changes now while I was fresh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room's only chair would go under the doorknob, but not until I was in for the night. I moved a line of miniature Kachina dolls from the dresser to the windowsill. If anyone opened the window, one or more of the dolls would fall. There was a small mirror on the wall that was framed by deer antlers. I placed it under the window, just in case the dolls didn't fall. I'd leave my suitcase to one side of the door entrance so if the door did somehow manage to open without knocking the chair over, Olaf might trip over the suitcase. Of course, I was almost as likely to trip over it trying to get to the bathroom on the way out. The moment I thought of it, I had to go. I'd hit the bathroom on the way out. Edward could stand outside and make sure Olaf didn't interrupt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I searched through my suitcase. It was illegal for me to carry my vampire gear without a court order of execution. Carrying it without one was like premeditated murder. But no law against carrying a few extras. I had two thin vials of holy water with little rubber caps. You hit the cap with your thumb and it popped open, sort of like a grenade, but only dangerous to the vamp. Which made it a lot more user friendly than a grenade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped the holy water into each of my back pockets. They barely showed through the dark cloth. I already had my cross, but I'd had crosses ripped off of my throat before, so I had backups. I put a plain silver cross with chain in one front pocket of my jeans, and another one in the pocket of the black dress jacket. I opened the box of new ammunition that I'd packed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd had to leave my apartment almost two years ago now. When I'd lived in my apartment, I'd put Glazer Safety Rounds in my guns because I didn't want my neighbors to take a stray bullet. Glazers will not go through walls, but as Edward and some of my police friends had pointed out, I'd been lucky. Glazers will shatter bone, but don't really go through bone, the difference between a shotgun and a rifle round, sort of. Edward had actually come into town just to take me out to the shooting range and test fire stuff. He'd asked me questions about specific gun fights, and what I'd learned was that the reason the Glazers had done what I wanted them to do was mostly being almost point blank every time I used them for a kill. What I needed was something that was a reliable kill from a safer distance than arm's length. It also might explain why I'd hit some older vamps from a distance, but they hadn't stopped. Maybe not. Maybe they were just that old, but ... Edward had been very convincing. Something with more penetrating power, more stopping power, ammo meant not to wound but to kill. Because let's face it: when was the last time I'd wounded anyone that I hadn't meant to kill? Wounding was an accident for me. Killing was the goal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd settled on the Hornady Custom XTP handgun ammo. To be exact the 9mm Luger, 147 JHP/XTP, silver-coated of course. There were other hollow point bullets that will expand to a bigger mass, but some of them don't penetrate nearly as far into a body mass. With a vamp you need to make sure you hit something vital, not just that you make a big hole. There were even bullets that penetrated further into a mass, which meant they'd reliably go through a body and out the other side. But all the Hornady XTPs were designed to penetrate the target, but not so far as to pass through the target object and "create a hazard." That last was a quote from some of the Hornady Manufacturing literature. The ammo followed the FBI penetration requirements. The Feds, even more than little ol' me, have to worry about what happens when a bullet hits the bad guy and keeps traveling. Is it going to hit a kid, a pregnant woman, a nun out for her morning stroll? Once a bullet hits the mark and keeps traveling, you really never know where it will end up. So the plan is to make sure it doesn't leave the target, but that the target doesn't get up either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, Edward had made his own recipe for killing. He'd taken silver hollow points and filled the end with holy water and mercury, then sealed the top with wax. I'd been afraid that the wax would make the bullets jam in a gun, but they ran through like silk -- smooth, dependable, like Edward himself. The ammo was a hell of a show. So Edward had told me. I hadn't used Edward's homemade surprise yet. I was still vaguely wary of them. He shouldn't have told me that they might jam the gun. Or maybe, I would have been nervous of them anyway. With these even if you hit in a non-lethal area, missed the heart, the head, everything vital, you still did damage. The holy water and silver mercury would explode through the vamp's body, burning where they touched. The holy water would cut through the body like acid, Hit a vamp even in a leg or arm with this shit, and they might lose all interest in killing you and just want to stop the pain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at the two boxes of ammo, and finally loaded up with the Hornady XTP, Edward's specials in their box. If I did have to shoot any vamps tonight I had no court order of execution, and carrying the homemade seemed too much like premeditation. Premeditation is the difference between first degree murder, and second degree murder or even manslaughter if you had a good lawyer and a sympathetic jury. There were people in jail at this very moment for killing vamps. I did not want to be one of them. Besides, we were just going down there to ask questions, nothing major. So I told myself as I closed the suitcase and left the other bullets behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I knew better than most that what should be simple always grows complex when you add a vampire. Add a Master of the City, any city, and you never really know what you're walking into. I'd killed three Masters of the City: one with a sword, one with fire, one by killing their human servant. Never just a straight on shoot out. I probably wouldn't be shooting anyone tonight, but ... I loaded up my extra clip with the bullets. I'd only use them if I'd used up the first clip. If I emptied thirteen of the XTPs into something and it didn't go down, all bets were off. I'd worry about murder charges later, after I survived. Survival first. Try to stay out of jail second. My priorities in order, I slipped the extra clip into the right pocket of my jacket and went off to find Edward. He was, after all, the one who had taught me my priorities.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_24" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36472485" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36472487" class="calibre7"></a>22 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I WAS COOLING my heels in the living room when Bernardo and Olaf came out of the far rooms. They had both changed clothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo was in white dress slacks with a sharp crease and a roll of cuff. A white vest showed off his darkly muscled arms. He'd added heavy silver arm bracelets at mid-bicep, and matching ones at each wrist. A silver saint's medallion glittered against the smooth darkness of his chest. Most of his hair fell like a black dream around all that white, except for a braid on one side. It was a thick braid because he just had that much hair, and he'd woven silver chains with tiny bells here and there in his hair, so he stalked into the room to the sound of gentle chimes. He looked at me through a curtain of blackness caressing one side of his face, the other graced by the silver on black glint of the braid. It was, to say the least, eye-catching.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a little bit of a struggle to tear my gaze from Bernardo and look at Olaf. He had gone for a black shirt that seemed utterly sheer. To hide his shoulder holster, he'd put on a leather jacket. It was way too hot for leather. Though admittedly, with his totally shaved head, black jeans, and black boots with silver toes and heels, the leather jacket looked about the right speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys look spiffy. What's the occasion?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going to a club," Bernardo said, as if that explained it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was frowning now. "You should change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pushed to my feet from the couch. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked toward me. I caught glimpses of dark flesh above his white leather loafers and the hem of his pants, no socks. He stopped at the edge of the couch, as if I'd pulled back, or made some other sign that I wasn't happy. "I know you can look as good as we do." He gave a little self-deprecating smile, "Or as good as Olaf here. Maybe not as good as me." He smiled, and I was a good smile, meant to melt something a little lower than my heart. But I'd been working on my reaction to him. I was not a slave to my libido. Richard and Jean-Claude could attest to that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him in all his light and dark glory. "If I can't look as good as you, why try at all?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile widened to a grin that made his face look somehow more real and less handsome. Less handsome, less practiced, but I liked it more. He took a step closer, and that teasing, practiced look was back. This was a man who knew how to flirt. But if anything will turn me off, it's a very practiced approach, as if the man has done it a thousand times before, to a lot of different women. Which always seems to imply that I am no different from all the rest. Not flattering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you might, might, be able to approach my glory, if you tried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even knowing it was an act, I had to smile. "I just don't want to work that hard, Bernardo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I am forced to change, then everyone changes," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. Was he handsome? Not really, but he was striking. If he could tone down the bad boy routine, he could probably pick up plenty of girls at the club, or maybe even if he didn't tone it down. It always amazes me how many women like dangerous men. Men who almost from the moment you meet them, you know are bad news. Me, I prefer my men kinder, gentler, nice. Niceness is highly underrated by most people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't remember anyone putting you in charge, Olaf. When Edward asks me to change clothes, I'll change."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a step towards me, but whatever he was going to say or do, stopped when Edward came into the room. He was wearing a red tank top with a short-sleeved silk shirt that matched the tank. The shirt would hide his shoulder holster if he were careful. His jeans were new and black, and with his yellow hair grown out enough to have a little curl to it, he actually looked sort of cute. Edward never looked cute.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew when I was beaten. I raised hands in surrender and started walking towards the bedrooms. Then stopped. I turned back to him. "I thought the point to taking me down there without cops was that the monsters might talk to Anita Blake, vamp executioner. So that means no undercover crap."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why would changing clothes be undercover for you?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, then looked at Edward. "If you want my services, you take whatever the hell I'm wearing. I don't dress up outside the office."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, "Let's go down there with you a little under wraps. Look around the club, meet the monsters, before they find out who you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know the answer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want me to look around, use my expertise, before they know I have any expertise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you also want me to be Anita Blake and impress the monsters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hard to do both."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Be a tourist until they make you, then be yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The best of both worlds," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "Is this all your plan? No hidden agenda?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, and it was Ted's smile, slow, lazy, innocent. "Would I do that to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just shook my head and started for the bedrooms. "Forget I asked. I'll change into something more ... festive," I said without turning around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward didn't call me back and say no need to change so I kept walking. We were undercover tonight apparently. I hate undercover work. I am just so damn bad at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had also not packed with an eye for club hopping. I changed into the newest, blackest jeans I had. The Nikes would have to do because I hadn't brought anything else. Except more Nikes. All my shirts were just different colors of one or two styles. If I find something comfy, I've learned to buy doubles if I really like something, and multiple colors if I really, really like a style. This means I am usually wearing last year's style long after the fashion trend has moved on, but it's not like I care.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a royal blue cotton tee with a scoop neck. Almost all the shirts I'd packed had a scoop neck. The blue was a little softer than the rest of the colors. I added a touch of eye shadow, enough eyeliner to be dramatic, enough mascara so that the eyeliner didn't overwhelm my eyelashes, a hint of blush, and some kiss-ass red lipstick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I couldn't really get a good look in the room's small mirror, but at least the makeup looked good. The shoulder holster was very black against the blue shirt, but the black suit jacket took care of that. Since I couldn't take the jacket off without flashing the guys, I added my wrist sheaths with matching silver knives. If I was going to be stuck with the jacket all night, I might as well carry them. Besides, you never know when you'll need a good blade. I ran a brush through my hair and called it done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Apparently, I looked okay because Bernardo said, "I take it back. If you'd packed a dress, you'd be prettier than I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No, I wouldn't, but thanks for saying it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is showing too much breast," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at his completely sheer black shirt. "I can see your nipples."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face darkened. I think he was actually blushing. "Bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, sure, you and the horse you rode in on," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward moved between us, soothing the big man. To me, he said, "Don't tease him unless you want the trouble."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He started it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at both of us, his face that icy gaze that I'd seen him wear when he killed. "I don't care who starts it, but I will finish it. Is that clear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf and I looked at Edward, then at each other. Slowly, we both nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is clear," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Crystal," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good " His face transformed into a smiling face, somehow appearing years younger, How did he do it? "Then let's go." Wewent.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_25" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36472732" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36472734" class="calibre7"></a>23 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">OBSIDIAN BUTTERFLY, THE CLUB, was located between Santa Fe and Albuquerque. The club was set back from the road like one of the Indian casinos.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had high-class tourist trap written all over it. The parking lot was so full we had to circle to find a spot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The building was done in faux-Aztec temple. Or for all I knew real Aztec temple. But the outside of the building looked like a movie set. Red neon traced square carved faces, and the name was traced in more red neon. There was a line stretching around the corner of the building and out into the hot summer dark. This was not my town. I didn't know the manager, so I couldn't jump the line. I also did not want to stand in the line.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward walked up the line, confident, as if he knew something I didn't. We followed him like obedient puppies. We weren't the only foursome trying to get into the club. We were the only foursome that wasn't made up of couples. To blend in we needed at least one more woman. But Edward didn't seem to be trying to blend in. He walked up to the head of the line where a large, broad-shouldered man of very Indian descent stood bare-chested, wearing what looked like a skirt but probably wasn't, and a heavy faux-gold collar that covered most of his shoulders like a mantle. He was wearing a crown covered in macaw feathers and other smaller feathers that I couldn't identify.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If this was just the bouncer at the door, I was actually interested in seeing the show. Though I hoped they had access to lots and lots of pet parrots and hadn't actually slaughtered birds just for the outfits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're Professor Dallas's party. She's expecting us," Edward said in his best hail-fellow-well-met voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The feather and gold bedecked man said, "Names." He uncrossed his arms and looked at a clipboard that had been in his hand the entire time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted Forrester, Bernardo Spotted-Horse, Olaf Gundersson and Anita Lee." The new last name stopped me. Apparently, he was serious about me going in incognito.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"IDs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried very hard to keep my face blank, but it was an effort. I didn't have any fake ID. I looked at Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed his driver's license to the man, then still smiling, said, "And now aren't you glad that I didn't let you leave your license in the car." He handed a second license to the man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at both for longer than I thought he should have, as if he suspected something. My shoulders were actually tight, waiting for him to turn to me and say, ah-hah, fake ID, but he didn't, He handed both licenses back to Edward, and turned to Bernardo and Olaf. They wailed with their licenses out, as if they'd done this before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward moved back to stand by me and handed me the license. I took it and looked at it. It was a New Mexico license with an address on it that I didn't know. But it was my picture, and it said Anita Lee. The height, weight, and the rest were accurate, just the name and address was wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better put it in your pocket. I may not be around to find it next time," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped it in my pocket along with my other license, a lipstick, and some money, and an extra cross. I wasn't sure whether to be flattered or insulted that Edward had set up a secret identity for me. Of course, maybe it was just the license, but knowing Edward there'd be more to it. There usually was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big double doors were opened by another large muscled guy in a skirt, though he didn't have a feather crown or a nifty collar. A lesser bouncer, apparently. The doors led into a darkened room thick with an incense I didn't recognize. The walls were completely covered with heavy drapes, only another set of double doors showing the way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another bouncer, this one blond and tanned the color of thick honey, opened the door. He had feathers woven into his short hair. He winked at me as we went through the door, but it was Bernardo he watched the closest. Maybe he was looking for weapons, but I think he was watching Bernardo's butt. He wouldn't see a weapon from the back. Bernardo had transferred his gun to a front cross draw because the gun had showed a lump at the back. Which told you how snug the pants fit in back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room we entered was large, stretching out and out into the near darkness. People sat at square stone tables that looked suspiciously like altars to me. Or at least what Hollywood is always using for altars. The "stage" took up most of the far left wall, but it wasn't a stage, not really. It was being used as a stage, but it was a temple. It was as if someone had sliced off the top of a pyramid temple and transported it here to this night club, in a city so far removed from the lush jungles where the building began that the stones themselves must be lonely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A woman appeared in front of Edward. She looked as ethnic as the first doorman with high sculpted cheekbones, and a fall of shiny black hair that fell to her knees as she moved through the tables. She had menus in her dark hands, so I assumed she was the hostess. But her dress was red with a black design, and I knew silk when I saw it. The dress was vaguely oriental and didn't match the decor of the room, or the waitresses hurrying to and fro in odd loose dresses made of some rough material. The waitresses struggled along in loose-fitting sandals, while the hostess glided before us in high heels the same scarlet as her dress and perfectly manicured nails.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was beautiful in a tall, slender, graceful fashion, like a model, but she was a discordant note, as if she belonged to a different theme. She showed us to a table that was in the very front with a view dead center of the temple. There was a woman at the table, who stood and offered us her hand as we sat down. Her handshake was firm, and her hand was about my size. It takes practice to have a firm handshake with hands this small.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Professor Dallas, call me Dallas, was shorter than I was, and so petite that in the right clothes she'd have looked prepubescent. She wore tan Docker pants. A white polo shirt, with a tweed jacket complete with leather elbow patches, as if she'd read the dress code for college professors and was trying to conform. Her hair was shoulder length, a baby fine, medium brown. Her face was small and triangular and as pale and perfect as God had intended it to be. Her glasses were gold wire frames and too large for the small face. If this was her idea of party clothes, someone needed to take her shopping. But somehow I didn't think the good doctor gave a shit. I like that in a woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man stepped out of the odd-shaped door at the top of the temple. The moment he stepped out, silence fell in rings around him, spreading out and out into the murmuring audience until it was so quiet I could hear the pulse of my own blood. I'd never heard a crowd this large go so quiet so quickly. I'd have said it was magic, but it wasn't, not exactly. But this man's presence was a sort of magic. He could have worn jeans and a T-shirt and he'd still have commanded your attention. Of course, what he was wearing was pretty eye-catching all on its own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His crown was a mass of thin, long feathers, a strange greenish, bluish, goldish color, so that as he moved they shifted color like a trapped greenish rainbow hovering in a fan of colors above his forehead. His cape hung nearly to his knees and seemed to be formed of the same feathers as his headdress, so that he moved in a wave of iridescence. The body that showed was strong, square, and dark. I was sitting close enough to tell if he was handsome or not, but staring at him, I wasn't sure. It was impossible to separate his face from that presence, and so the face didn't matter much. He was attractive, not because of the length of a nose or the turn of a chin, but just because.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I found myself sitting up a little straighter in my seat, as if coming to attention. The moment I did it, I knew that even if it wasn't magic, it was something. I had to fight to tear my gaze from him and look at the others at the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo was gazing at him, as was Doctor Dallas. Edward was gazing out over the hushed crowd. Olaf was studying the doctor. He watched her, not as a man watches a woman, but as a cat watches a bird through cage bars. If Dallas noticed, she ignored it, but somehow I think she didn't notice. I think even with the man's presence filling the room, his rich voice riding the air, I'd have felt Olaf's gaze like a cold wind down my spine. That Dallas was oblivious to it made me worry about her, just a little, and made me very sure that I never wanted Olaf alone with her. Her survival instincts just weren't up to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man, king or high priest, talked in rich tones. I caught part of it. Something about the month of Toxcatal, and a chosen one. I could not concentrate on his voice, any more than I could gaze upon him because to give him too much of my attention meant I was caught up in the spell he was weaving over the crowd. It wasn't a spell in the true sense of the word, but there was power in it, if not magic. The difference between magic and power can be very small. I'd been forced to accept that fact in the last two years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The high priest was human, but there was a taste of ages to him. There are just not that many ways for a human to last centuries. One way is to be the human servant of a powerful master vamp. Unless Obsidian Butterfly was more generous about sharing her power than most of the Masters of the City that I'd met, the high priest belonged to her. He was too powerful an echo of his master to be endured unless she was that master. Master vamps have a tendency to either destroy or own that which is powerful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The high priest had been powerful in life, a charismatic leader. Now centuries of practice had turned that charisma into a kind of magic. I'd had full fledged vamps not affect me this much. If this was the servant, how scary was the master going to be? I sat there at the stone table, flexing my shoulders to feel the tightness of the shoulder holster. I was glad I'd packed an extra clip of bullets. I moved my wrists just enough to feel the knives resting against my arms. I was very glad I'd brought the knives. You can stab vamps and keep them alive, but still make your ... point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was finally able to separate the power of his voice from the word. Most vamps, when they can, do tricks with their voices. The words themselves hold the key. They say <em class="calibre9">beautiful, </em>and you see beauty. They say <em class="calibre9">terror, </em>and you feel afraid. But this voice had little to do with the words. It was just an overwhelming aura of power like a great white noise hum. The audience may have thought that they were hanging on every word, but the man could have recited a grocery list with similar effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words were, "You saw him as the god Tezcathpoca in our opening dance. Now see him as a man." The lights had been dimming as the priest spoke, until he was left in near darkness, only the iridescent gleam of feathers showed as he moved. The light came up on the other side of the stage, revealing a man, pale skin that glowed in the lights from his bare feet to equally bare shoulder. His back was to the audience and for a moment I thought he was nude. There was nothing to break up the curve of his body from the swell of his calves, to his thighs, the tight roundness of his buttocks, the lean waist, the spread of shoulders. His hair looked black under the lights, cut so close to his head that it looked shaved. He turned slowly, revealing the barest of G-strings, a color so close to his skin that you knew the illusion of nudity was a planned effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face shone unadorned like a star, starkly beautiful. He looked somehow pure and perfect, which wasn't possible. No one human was perfect. But he was pretty. A line of black hair ran down the center of his chest and stomach to vanish into the thong. Our table was close enough, and his body white enough, that I could see the thin line of hair encircling his nipples to meet that thin line down his chest like the soft arms of a T.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I actually had to shake my head to clear it. Maybe it was being celibate, or maybe there was more magic in the air than just the voice of the human servant. I looked back at the stage and knew that it was only a trick of the light that made his skin seem to glow. I looked over at Professor Dallas. She had her head bent very close to Edward, talking to him in whispers. If she saw the show almost every night, it was nothing new to her, but the lack of attention that she paid the man made me turn and search the dim tables around us. Most eyes, especially the women, were turned rapt to the stage. But not all eyes. Some were drinking, holding hands with their dates, doing other things. I turned back to the stage and just looked at him, drinking in the lines of his body. Damn, it was just me. Or rather, it was just a normal human reaction to a nearly naked and attractive man. I'd have preferred a spell. At least then I could blame someone else. My hormones, my fault. I needed more hobbies, that was it, more hobbies. That would fix everything. The lights came up slowly until the Priest was visible once more. "It was traditional that twenty days before the great ceremony, brides would be chosen for him." I caught a glimpse of fur, and for just an instant I thought it was a line of shapeshifters in their half-human, half-beast guise. But it was men dressed in leopard skins. Not hanging loose like cloaks but as if the skins were sewn around their bodies. Some of them were too tall for the skins so that a loot or more of bare leg showed below the animal feet, or out of the clawed arms. They moved among the tables in a strangely graceful line, encased in fur with their faces framed through the open jaws of the dead animals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man passed within touching distance of our table, and I saw the black rosettes that decorated the golden skin more closely, and it wasn't leopard. I was spending a lot of time with St. Louis' wereleopards. I'd killed the wereleopard leader because he was trying to kill me, among other things. But I'd left the leopards without a leader, and shapeshifters without a leader are anyone's meat. So I was de facto leader until we could work something else out. I'd been learning how to forge them into a stronger unit, or pard. One of the ways you did that was sheer physical closeness, not sex, but closeness. I stared at the skin, and my hand went out without thinking. The man's movement stroked my hand over the once living fur. The spots were larger. The markings weren't as neat somehow. I watched the cat heads on the men, and the heads were more square, not the rounded almost feminine line of leopard. Jaguars, they were jaguars, which made perfect sense with the Aztec motif, but, like the bird feathers, I wondered how they'd obtained the skins, and was it legal. I knew it wasn't right. I don't believe in killing for decoration. I wear leather because I eat meat, just using the whole animal. Nothing wasted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man turned and looked at me. His eyes were blue, his face tanned a pale gold that matched the line of belly fur just before it turned white. The moment he looked at me energy danced down my skin like a hot breath. A shapeshifter, great. There was a time, not long ago, that that much power this close would have drawn an answering energy from me, but not this time. I sat there staring at him, and I was safe behind my shield that squeezed down a layer of energy that stood between me and all the psychic shit. I gave him innocent brown eyes, and he moved off through the tables as if I was no longer interesting. Which was fine with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't reach out for it, but the energy came here and there from them. It would have been so much worse without the shielding. They had to be werejaguars or the costumes were like the ultimate false advertising. Somehow, this didn't strike me as a show that promised anything it couldn't deliver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguars picked women from the audience, took them by the hand and led them towards the stage. A petite blonde was pulled from her seat giggling. A short, square woman with skin the color of tanned leather was pulled solemn-faced and didn't seem to be nearly as pleased, but she let herself be led to the stage. A taller more slender Hispanic woman was next, with long black hair that shimmered as she moved like an ebony curtain. She stumbled on the steps, and only the werejaguar's arm saved her from falling. She laughed as he steadied her, and I realized she was drunk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure appeared in front of me, blocking my view of the stage. I looked up into a dark face framed by snarling jaws. The jaguar's golden glass eyes rode above the man's face, as if the dead animal were staring at me, too. The man reached a square, dark hand out to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hand stayed, pale palm up, waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head again. "No, thanks anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas leaned around Edward, across the table, having to nearly crawl on it to get close to me. It stretched her body in a long line, her long ponytail pooling on the stone. Olaf's hand hovered over that spill of hair, and the look on his face was strange enough to distract me from everything else. Her voice made me look at her face instead of Olaf's. "They need someone your size and body type to round out the brides. Someone with long hair." She was smiling. "Nothing bad is going to happen." She gave me a cheerful smile that made her look even younger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man leaned over me and I could smell the fur and ... him. Not sweat just his scent, and that made my stomach contract, made me have to concentrate on holding my shields, because the part of me that was tied to Richard and his beast wanted to respond, wanted to spill outward and wallow in that scent. The animal impulses, true animal impulses, always threw me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man's voice was thickly accented, and sounded unsuited to whispering It was a voice for shouting orders. "Do nothing that you do not wish to do but please come to our temple."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe it was the please or the accent or the absolute seriousness in his face but I believed. I still might not have gone with him, but Edward leaned into me, and said, "Tourist, think tourist." He didn't say, "Play along, Anita. Remember, we're undercover," because with a shapeshifter this close he'd hear anything that was said at the table. But Edward had said enough. I was a tourist. A tourist would go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave the man my left hand and let him pull me to my feet. His hand was very warm. Some lycanthropes seem to adopt their alter ego's body temperature. Even Richard's skin grew warmer near the full moon, but that couldn't be it tonight. We were only days away from the dark of the moon, as far from the shining fullness that called the beasts as we could get. The man was just warm. Too hot for fur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest in his feathers encouraged the audience to applaud as the last reluctant bride, me, joined the grouping around the nearly naked man. The werejaguar stood me on the side with the giggling blond. The smell of beer was strong enough that I knew the giggling wasn't just nervousness. Perfect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked past the man, doing my best to ignore him, to the two women on the other side. The tall one with all the hair was swaying slightly on her spike heels. Her skirt was leather, and the blouse looked like a red camisole. The other woman was that solid that some people call fat, but it isn't. She was square and wore a loose black shirt over black pants. She caught my eye, and we shared a moment of discomfort. Audience participation was great as long as the audience wants to participate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"These are your brides," the priest said, "your reward. Enjoy them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The solid woman and I both took a step back as if it were choreographed. The blonde and the tall one with all the hair melted into his arms, cuddling and laughing. The man played to them, but it was their hands that wandered over his body. He was very careful where he touched them. I thought at first it was just fear of being sued, but there was a stiffness, a tightening of his body when their hands wandered over his bare buttocks that said he wasn't having as good a time as it looked. From the audience you'd have never noticed. He came away from them with orange-red lipstick like a wound on his pale skin and pale pink like a patch of glitter down his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out to us, and both of us shook our heads. We took another step back, and a step closer together. Solidarity. She offered me her hand, not to shake, but to hold, and I realized she was scared, not just nervous. I was neither, just not happy. She whispered, "I'm Ramona." I gave her my name, and I what seemed to matter more, held her hand. I felt like Mommy on the first day of school when the bullies are waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's voice came. "You are his last meal, his last caress. Do not deny him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramona's face changed, grew soft. Her hand fell away from mine. The fear was gone. I called, softly, "Ramona." But she moved forward as if she never heard me. She moved into the man's arms. He kissed her with more tenderness than he'd shown the other two. She kissed him back, with a passion and a strength that made anything the other two had done seem pale and watered down. The other two women had gone to their knees on either side, either because they couldn't stand upright anymore, or the better to run their hands over both the man and the new woman. It looked like a mild version of a pornographic four-way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew back from Ramona, laying a second kiss on her forehead as if she were a child. She stayed unmoving, eyes closed, face slack. It was illegal to force anyone to do anything against their will by use of magic. I looked at Ramona's empty face, waiting, waiting for what came next, all decision, all choice, washed away. If I'd been myself tonight instead of whoever the hell I was supposed to be, I'd have called them on it. I should still turn them in to the cops. But truthfully, unless they did worse, I wasn't going to turn them in if the Master of the City could help us solve the mutilation murders. If the murders stopped, a few mind-games could be overlooked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a time when I wouldn't have tolerated it, when I wouldn't have looked the other way for any reason. They say everyone has their price. Once I thought I was the exception to the rule, but if it was a choice of letting this nice woman be made to do some things she didn't want to do, or seeing another crime scene, another survivor, they could have the woman. Not have in the true sense of the word, but to my knowledge mind-magic by a human servant wasn't permanent. Of course, until tonight I hadn't known a human servant could do mind-rape. I really didn't know how much danger this woman was in, and yet ... and yet I would risk her, as long as nothing worse happened. If they told her to strip, all bets were off. I had rules, limits. They just weren't the same ones they'd been four years ago, or two years, or a year ago. The fact that I let them mind-rape her and didn't complain, bothered me, but not enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blonde woman leaned into the man and bit his butt, not hard but enough to make him jump. His back was to the audience, so I was probably the only one who saw the anger that showed for just a moment in that handsome face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest stayed on his side of the stage, as if he didn't want to distract from the show, but I knew he'd turned his attention to me. The full force was like pressure against my skin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice. "A most reluctant bride to leave him lonely in his hour of need." I felt his power and now that power was wedded to the words. When he said "need," I felt need. My body tightened with it, but I could ignore it. I knew I could stand there and be unmoved, that he could do his worst and I could stand against it. But no human could have done it. Anita Blake, vamp executioner, could stand firm, but Anita Lee, undercover party-goer, well ... If I just stood there, the game was up. At the very least they'd know I wasn't an ordinary tourist. Times like these are one of the reasons I hate undercover work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I ignored the priest's rich voice and just walked toward the man. He was having trouble keeping the blonde's hand out of the front of his G-string. The other woman knelt in a pool of her own dark hair, hanging on his leg, one hand playing with the side strap of the G-string. Only Ramona stood there, face blank, hands at her sides, waiting for orders. But the priest was concentrating all his energies on me. She was safe until he finished with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dark-haired woman got the strap to slide over the smooth bone of his hip, and the blonde used it as a chance to plunge her hand under the cloth. His eyes closed, head going back, body reacting automatically, even as his hand grabbed her hand and tried to pull her hand out of his pants. Apparently, she was hanging on, not hurting him exactly, but not letting go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I doubted the club would have tolerated this level of abuse if the performer had been a woman and the audience member a man. Some forms of sexist double standards do not work in a man's favor. A woman they would have rushed on stage and saved her, but he was a man, and he was on his own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched Ramona's shoulders and moved her to one side like she was furniture. She moved where I put her, eyes still closed. Made me feel worse that she was that pliant. But one problem at a time. I put my hand on top of his and moved his hand away from the blonde's wrist. His hand didn't move at first, then he looked at me, really looked at me. His eyes were large, a soft pure gray with a circle of black around the iris like someone had used the same eye pencil to trace his eyes that they'd used on the sweep of eyebrow and dark lashes. Strange eyes. But whatever he saw in my eyes seemed to reassure him because he let go of the blonde. There's a nerve in the arm about three fingers down from the bend of the elbow. If you hit it right, it's pretty painful. I dug my fingers into her flesh, as if I'd find that nerve and drag it to the surface. I was pissed, and I wanted to hurt her. I succeeded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave a small scream, her hand opened, and I was able to move her arm back, fingers digging into the nerve. She didn't struggle, just whimpered and stared up at me with large unfocused eyes, but the pain was chasing the liquor away. If I kept it up long enough, I could have sobered her up in, oh, fifteen minutes or so, if she didn't pass out first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke low, but my voice carried. The stage had great acoustics. "My turn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall Hispanic woman crawled away from the man, scuttling in her tight skirt until she fell flat on her face. You have to be pretty drunk to fall from a crawling position. She got to one elbow, and her voice came thick, but panicked. "He's yours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drew the blonde a few steps farther away from the man, and slowly let go of her arm. I told her, "Stay." She cradled her arm against her body, huddling over it. The look she gave me was not friendly, but she didn't mouth off. I think she was afraid of me. I wasn't having a great night. First, I let the nice lady be mind-raped, then I terrorize drunken tourists. I would have said, how could the night get worse, but worse was waiting. I looked back at the nearly naked man and didn't know what to do with him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked back over to him because I couldn't figure a graceful way off stage. I'd probably blown my cover as a tourist, but Edward had let me bring a gun and knives into the club. In fact, we were all loaded for bear or vampire or whatever. The bouncers, unless they were idiots, had to have seen some of the weapons. I was just not supposed to be a vamp executioner, but I've never played victim well. I should never have come on stage, but too late now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man and I stood facing each other, his back still to the audience. He leaned into me, breath warm against my hair. He whispered, "My hero, thank you"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded, and that small movement brushed my thick hair against his face. My mouth was dry, and it was hard to swallow. My heart was suddenly beating too hard, too fast, as if I'd been running. It was a ridiculous reaction to a strange man. I was horribly aware of how close he was, how little he was wearing, and how my hands just hung at my sides because to move at all would brush against him. What was the matter with me? I had not been noticing men this badly in St. Louis. Was there something in the air in New Mexico? Was it just lack of oxygen from the elevation?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rubbed his face against my hair, whispered, "I am Cesar." That small movement put the curve of his jaw, the skin of his neck next to my face. There was a trace of the women's perfume mixing along his face, overlaying the clean scent of his skin, but underneath it all was a sharper scent. It was the smell of warmer flesh than human, slightly musky, so rich it was almost a damp smell, as if you could bathe in the scent like water, but the water would be hot, hot as blood, hotter. The scent was so strong that I swayed, and for a second I could feel the brush of fur against my face like rough piled velvet. The sensory memory poured through me, and overwhelmed all my careful control. The power poured upward in a spill of heat along my skin. I'd managed to cut the direct links to the boys so that I was alone in my own skin, but the marks were still there, coming to the surface at odd moments, like this one. Shapeshifters always recognize each other. Their beasts always know, and though I had no beast of my own, I had a piece of Richard's. That piece reacted to Cesar. If I'd been expecting it, I might have been able to prevent it, but it was too late now. It wasn't dangerous, just a spill of heat, pulsing along my skin, a dance of energy that didn't belong to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar had jerked back from me as if I'd burned him, then he smiled. It was a knowing smile like we shared a secret. He wasn't the first shapeshifter to mistake me for one of them. To my knowledge I was one of only two humans in the world that had this close a tie to a shapeshifter. The other man's tie was to a weretiger, not a werewolf, but the problems were similar. We were both part of a vampire's triumvirate, and neither of us seemed happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar's hands went to either side of my face, hesitating just above my skin. I knew he was feeling the push of that otherworldly energy like a veil that had to be pushed aside to touch. Except he didn't. He spilled his own power into his hands, so that he held me in a pulsing shell of warmth. It made me close my eyes, and he hadn't even touched me yet, not with his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to tell him not to touch me, but as I drew breath to speak his hands touched my face. I wasn't ready. He pushed his power into, mine. It hit like a jolt of electricity, raising the small hairs on my body, tightening places low on my body, raising gooseflesh in a wash down my skin. The power flowed towards Cesar like a flower turning towards the sun. I couldn't stop it. The best I could do was ride the power instead of letting it ride me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bent his face towards me, still cradling my face between his hands. I put my own hands on top of his as if I was going to hold on. Power poured from his mouth as he hovered over my lips. The power ran through my body and spilled out of half-parted lips like a hot wind. Our mouths met and the power flowed into each of us, mingling as it brushed like two great cats rubbing furred sides along each other's bodies. The warmth grew to heat, until it almost hurt to stay tied to his lips, as if any second now our flesh would burn into each other, melting through skin, muscle, bone, until we fell into the center of each other like molten metal cutting through layers of silk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The energy had turned sexual, as it usually did ... for me. Embarrassing but true. We drew back from the kiss at the same time, blinking at each other like sleepwalkers awakened too early. He gave a nervous laugh and leaned into me as if to kiss me again, but I put a hand on his chest, and held him away. I could feel his heart thudding against my palm. I could suddenly feel the blood racing in his body. My eyes were drawn to the big pulse in his throat, I watched that rapid rise and fall in the side of his neck as if it were some sort of jewel, something to watch sparkle and glitter in the lights. My mouth was suddenly dry, and it wasn't sex. I actually stepped into him, pressed my body down the front of his, brought my face close to his neck and that jumping beat of life. I wanted to go down on that soft skin, sink teeth into his flesh, taste what lay beneath. I knew with a knowledge that was not mine that his blood would be hotter than a human's. Not warm but hot, a scalding rush of life to warm cold flesh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to close my eyes, turn my head, step away with my hands over my eyes. I had no direct link to either of the men, but I held their power in me. Richard's burning warmth, and Jean-Claude's cold hunger. For a space of heartbeats I had wanted to feed on Cesar. This when I had walled up the marks, boarded them up, chained them, locked them with everything I had. When the marks were open between the three of us, the desires that ran through me, the things that I thought, were too horrible or maybe just too alien. Not for the first time I wondered what piece of me each of them held in their bodies. What dark desire or strange urge did I leave behind? If I ever talked to either of them again, maybe I'd ask, or then again, maybe I wouldn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt someone hovering close. I shook my head. "Don't touch me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let us get back stage, then I can apologize." It was the priest's voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lowered my hands and found him standing beside me. He held out his hand to me. I didn't touch him. "We meant no harm." I laid my left hand in his and found his skin quiet. There was nothing but human warmth and the solid feel of him.He led me towards an area to the far left of the stage. Cesar was already there with the three other women.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguars were there like guards, and it seemed to have made the blonde and the one with all the hair brave again. They were pawing Cesar, and he was kissing Ramona, who was kissing him back with enthusiasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest led me towards them, and I hung back. I whispered, "I can't." I meant that I couldn't touch Cesar again so soon. I didn't trust myself, and I didn't want to have to say it out loud. I didn't have to. The priest seemed to understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned close. "Please, just stand near them. No one will touch you." I don't know why I believed him, but I did. I stood near the near-orgy, trying not to look as uncomfortable as I felt. Then a large white screen came down out of the ceiling, and before it was solidly in place, the priest drew me to one side. A woman my size with hair my length appeared and moved towards the mini-orgy. I watched her join the group, and a jaguar dragged the blonde out. A woman that matched the blond came to take her place. They replaced everyone, even Cesar, with actors, who did a shadow orgy against the white screen, thrown large for the audience. The actresses matched all the women chosen, at least for a shadow play. Which is what Dallas had meant when she said they needed someone my size with long hair to complete the brides.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The actors weren't really doing anything, but it must have looked awful from the audience's point of view. Clothes flew and the women were topless. I wondered if the shadows looked as topless as the real thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest drew me away until we stood in a small curtain area. He spoke low but clearly, so I guess we could talk without being heard on stage. "You would never have been chosen if we didn't think you human. Our deepest apologies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "No harm done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me and there was a weight of knowledge in his eyes that I couldn't lie to. "You are frightened of what lies inside you, and you have not made peace with it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That much was true. "No, I haven't made peace with it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You must accept what you are, or you will never know what your true place in the world is, your true purpose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take this wrong, but I don't need a lecture tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at that, and there was a flash of anger. He wasn't used to being talked to like that. I was betting that everyone was afraid of him. Maybe I should have been, but what fear I had of him or them had vanished when I realized I wanted to take a bite out of Cesar's neck. That scared me more than anything they could do to me tonight. All right, almost anything they could do tonight. Never underestimate the creativity of a being that is hundreds of years old. Most of them know more about pain than we poor humans will ever know. Unless we are very, very unlucky. I was either feeling lucky or stupid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made a small motion and the werejaguar that had chosen me came to us. He dropped to one knee, head bowed. The priest said, "You chose this woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Pinotl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you not feel her beast?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His head lowered even more. "No, my lord, I did not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Choose," the priest said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kneeling man drew a knife from his belt. The handle was turquoise in the shape of a jaguar. The blade was about six inches of black obsidian. The man held the blade up to the priest who took it as reverently as it had been offered. The man undid some hidden catch on the jaguar skin, and pushed the hood back so that his head was bare. His hair was thick and long, tied in a long club at the back of his head. He raised a dark face that was so square and chiseled, it looked like he could have poised for Aztec temple carvings. If you were into Meso-Americans, his profile was perfect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his face up to the priest. His face was empty of all expression, just a calm waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a roar from the audience that made me glance at the actors, but I turned back to the priest and the man before I'd really seen anything. I had a glimpse of seminude bodies, and an impression of something large and phallic strapped around the man. Normally, that would have made me take a second glance, just to make sure I was seeing what I thought I'd seen, but no matter what was happening out there, the real show was here. It was in the serene, upturned face of the man, and the serious eyes of the priest, the dull gleam of the black blade. They could use all the props they wanted, no matter how big, but it wouldn't come close to the two men and the quiet intensity stretching between them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know exactly what was about to happen, but I had an idea. He was being punished because he'd chosen a lycanthrope from the audience, instead of a human. But I was human, or at least not a lycanthrope. I couldn't let him get sliced up, not even if it meant admitting who I was. Could I?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched the priest's arm, lightly. "What are you going to do to him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest looked at me, and his eyes seemed like deep caves, a trick of shadows. "Punish him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My fingers tightened on his arm, trying to feel it through the slick softness of feathers. "I just want to make sure you're not going to slit his throat or something really dramatic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What I do with our men is my business, not yours." The force of his disapproval was strong enough that I took my hand off his arm. But I was worried now what he was going to do. Damn Edward and his undercover idea. It never worked for me, pretending. Reality always screwed it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest laid the blade point against the man's cheek. There was no fear in his face, nothing but an eerie serenity that made my throat tight, and a thrill of fear slide down my spine. God, I hated zealots, and that's what I was seeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do not interfere," the priest said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not a lycanthrope," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lies, to save a stranger," nothing but contempt in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not lying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest called, "Cesar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He appeared like a well-trained dog coming to his master's call. Maybe the analogy was unfair, but I wasn't feeling particularly charitable right now. If I blew our cover, had to say who I was, I didn't know if I was going to be blowing something that Edward had planned. By saying who and what I was, I didn't know if I was endangering us. Edward hadn't shared enough of his plans, which I would take up with him when the evening was over, but my first concern was safety. Was saving a stranger from being sliced up worth our lives? No. Was keeping a stranger from being killed worth maybe risking our lives? Probably. I had so many unanswered questions and so little real information that I felt like I must be killing brain cells thinking around all the things I didn't know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar appeared beside me, on the far side of me away from the priest. I think he'd spotted the blade. "What has he done?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He picked her out of the audience and did not sense her beast," the priest said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have a beast," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar laughed, and it was too loud, He covered his mouth with his hand for a moment, as if to remind himself we had to be quiet. "I saw the hunger in your face." He said hunger like it should have been in capital letters. Great, more shapeshifter slang that I didn't know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to think of a short version that would make sense. I made two starts, before I finally said, "There is too much. I will sum up." I even threw in the bad Spanish accent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's face stayed blank and unhappy. He did not get the movie reference. Cesar choked back another laugh. He'd probably seen <em class="calibre9">The Princess Bride. </em>"The hunger you saw was not from some beast," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest gave his full attention to the man kneeling in front of him. It was as if I'd been dismissed. He sliced the man's cheek open. The thin cut spread and blood welled in liquid lines down the dark skin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He placed the knife against the man's other cheek. I grabbed his wrist. "Please, listen to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest turned his dark eyes to me. "Cesar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not your cat to call," Cesar said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's dark gaze slid from me, to the man beside me. "Be careful that what is pretense does not become real, Cesar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a threat, though I didn't understand exactly what the threat had been, but I knew a threat when I heard one. Cesar moved up beside me. "She merely wishes to speak, my lord Pinotl. Is that so much to ask?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She also touches me." They both stared at my hand on his wrist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll let go if I have your word that you won't cut him until you've heard me out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Those eyes came back to rest fully on my face, and I felt the force of him thundering down on me. I could almost feel his skin vibrate under my hand. "I can't let you bleed him for something that wasn't his fault."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He never said a word, but I felt movement behind me, and I knew it wasn't Cesar, because he turned toward the movement. I looked back and found two of the jaguar men coming towards us. They were probably not going to hurt me, just stop me from interfering. I turned back to the priest, met his eyes. I let go of his wrist. I had a few seconds to decide whether to draw a gun or a knife. They weren't trying to kill me, so the least I could do was return the favor. I slipped a knife out, holding it against my leg, trying to he unobtrusive. I'd made the decision to go for the knife and not the gun. I hoped it was the right decision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of jaguars was the tanned, blue-eyed one. The other was the first African American I'd seen in the club, his face very contrasting with all the pale spotted fur. They advanced on me in a roil of energy, a low growl escaped from one of their throats, the faintest of threats. That one faint sound raised the hair at the back of my neck. I backed up, putting the kneeling man between me and the two jaguars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest had laid the obsidian blade against the man's right cheek. He hadn't started cutting yet. "Are you just going to cut each cheek, is that it? Will it stop there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blade tip bit into his cheek. Even in the dark I could see the first liquid drop, a faint gleam, like a dark jewel. "If you just want to slice him up a little, fine. It's your business. I just don't want to see him mutilated or killed for something he couldn't have sensed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest sliced the other cheek, slower this time. I think I was making things worse. I asked it out loud, of everyone and no one. "Am I making things worse ?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cheek closest to me began to heal, the skin reknitting as I watched. I had an idea. I stepped closer to the priest and the kneeling man. I kept an eye on the two jaguars across from them, but they just stood watching. They'd backed me off, maybe that's all they were supposed to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched the kneeling man's chin, turned his face towards me. The other cheek was completely healed. I'd never seen an obsidian blade used and hadn't been a hundred percent that it didn't act like silver. But it didn't. Shapeshifters healed the damage. The priest was still holding the obsidian knife upright in his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The audience broke into thunderous applause, the sound rising like thunder through the small backstage area. The actors were pouring away from the white screen. The act was almost over. Everyone had turned at the noise and the movement, even the priest. I put my finger against the tip of the obsidian knife and pressed. The tip was like glass, the pain sharp and immediate. I drew back with a hiss.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What have you done?" the priest demanded, and his voice was too loud, it must have carried out into the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke lower. "I won't heal, not as fast as he did. It'll prove that I'm not a lycanthrope."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's anger filled the air like something hot and touchable. "You do not understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If someone would talk to me, instead of hugging their secrets so damn close, I wouldn't be blundering into things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest handed the blade back to the kneeling man. He took the knife and bowed his forehead to it. Then he licked the blade, carefully around the sharp edges, until he came to the point and my blood. Then he slid the tip between his lips, into his mouth, sucking it down like a woman taking a man into her mouth. His mouth worked around the blade and I knew it was cutting him, as he swallowed it. I knew it was cutting him up, but he made it look as if it were something wonderful, orgasmic, as if he were having a very good time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched me as he did it, and his eyes weren't serene anymore. They had filled with heat. It was the same heat you could see in any man's eyes when was thinking about sex. But not when the man was sucking on a glass sharp blade, cutting his mouth, tongue, throat, drinking his own blood, with a taste of my blood as a chaser, Someone grabbed my hand, and I jumped. It was Cesar. "We must be on stage. You must take your seat." He was watching the kneeling man, all the men, carefully. He eased me around the group of them, and all eyes followed like I was some wounded gazelle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other three women were already in place, standing behind the now dim white screen. They'd taken off some clothing. The giggling blonde was down to pale blue bra and panties, still laughing her head off. The Hispanic had taken off her skirt and was down to a pair of crimson panties that matched the red camisole she was still wearing. She'd kept the matching red high heels, She and the blonde were leaning against each other, swaying and laughing. Ramona wasn't laughing. She still stood quietly, unmoved and unmoving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's voice came from backstage. "Disrobe for our audience." His voice was soft, but Ramona grabbed the bottom of her shirt and lifted. Her bra was an ordinary bra, white and simple. It wasn't meant to be lingerie, and I doubted she'd planned on anyone seeing it tonight. She let her shirt fall to the floor. Her hands went to the top button of her pants. I pulled away from Cesar and grabbed Ramona's hands. "No, don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her hands went slack in mine, as if even that small interference had broken the spell, but she didn't look at me. She didn't see what was in front of her, just the internal landscape that I couldn't see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I picked her shirt back up and placed her hands over it. She clutched it automatically, covering most of the front of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar took my arm. "The screen is going up. There is no time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The screen began to slowly lift.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't be the only one dressed," he said. He tried to slide the jacket from my shoulders, and bared the shoulder holster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll scare the audience," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The screen was to our knees. He grabbed the front of my shirt, jerking it out of my pants, baring my stomach. He dropped to his knees and was licking my stomach as the screen came up completely. I tried to grab a handful of hair to pull him off me, but there wasn't enough hair to grab. The hair was much softer than it looked, much softer than my hair would have been if you shaved it to stubble. His teeth bit gently into my skin, and I put my hand under his chin, raising his face, so that he either had to take his teeth out of my skin, or bite deeper. He let go, let me raise his face to stare upward at me. There was a look in his eyes that I couldn't read, but it was something large and more complex than you see in a stranger's eyes. Complex I didn't need tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was on his feet in a movement so liquid and graceful that I knew that Edward would spot him for what he was, not human. He went to the one with all the hair first, giving her a tonsil-cleaning kiss, as if he'd crawl into her from the mouth down. Then he spun her like a dance move, and jaguar men were there to escort her and her arm full of clothes back to her table. The blonde was next. She kissed him, running pale nails down his back. She gave a little jump and wrapped her legs around his waist, forcing him to hold her weight or fall. The kiss was long, but she was in control of it. Cesar walked her to the edge of the stage, still clinging to his body like a limpet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jaguar men pried her away from his body, one pale limb at a time, until they had to carry her above their heads while she struggled, and then finally went limp, laughing as they carried her back to her table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramona seemed to wake up. She blinked around her as if she'd woken and wasn't sure where she thought she should be. She stared down at her blouse clutched to the front of her and screamed. Cesar tried to help her on with her blouse, and she slapped at him. I went to her, trying to help her, but she seemed afraid of me, too, now, as if her panic had spread to include all of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jaguar men tried to help her off stage, and she fell trying to keep them from touching her. It was finally a man from her table who came and escorted her out of the lights, out of the ring of strangers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was crying and speaking softly in Spanish as he led her back to the table. I would have to talk to someone about her. I couldn't leave town without knowing that the mind tricks weren't permanent. If it had been a vampire with a one on one call like that, he could have called her any time, any night, and she would answer his call. She would have no choice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar stood in front of me. He raised my hand, I think to kiss it, but it was the hand that I'd cut to prove I wouldn't heal. Not that anyone had cared, Cesar raised my hand and stared at the small wound in the tip of my finger. It was a small cut and didn't bleed much, but it wasn't healing either. If I'd been a lycanthrope, the small prick would have closed up and healed by now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me over the still bleeding finger. "What are you?" he whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Long story," I whispered back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kissed the wound like a mother with a child's scrape, then his mouth slid over my finger, down to my hand. He drew it slowly back out. Fresh blood welled to the tip of my finger, bright and sparkling under the lights. His tongue flicked out, rolling the drop of blood into his mouth. He leaned close as if to kiss me, but I shook my head and moved towards the steps that would lead me off the stage and away from him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jaguar men were there to help me off the stage, but I looked at them, and they backed off, letting me walk down the steps by myself. Edward held my chair for me, and I let him. Food had been served while I was on stage. Edward handed me a linen napkin. I wrapped it around my finger, holding pressure to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas actually got up from her chair and came to talk to me, hanging over the back of my chair. "What happened back there? I've been a volunteer before, and I've never seen anyone hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at her, her face close in the dimness, all serious and concern. "If you think no one gets hurt, then you haven't been paying attention."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She frowned, looking puzzled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. It was too late, and I was suddenly too tired to try and explain. "I cut myself shaving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She frowned harder, but also got the point that I didn't want to talk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat back down, leaving me to Edward. He leaned into me, laying his mouth against my ear and whispering so low it was like he was breathing into my ear. He knew how good a shapeshifter's hearing was, not to mention vamps. Do they know who you are?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned, putting my mouth against his ear, having to raise on one knee in my seat, putting my body in a line against his. It looked intimate, but it allowed me to whisper to him in a voice so low I wasn't sure he would hear. "No, but they know I'm not human, not a tourist." I put my arm across his shoulders, one hand on his shoulder, holding him because I didn't want him to move away. I wanted the next question answered. "What are you planning?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned to me, a look on his face that was far too intimate, too teasing for the conversation. He leaned into me, mouth pressed so close to my ear that it must have looked to the others like he had his tongue down it. "No plan, just thought you being you might scare the monsters from talking to us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn to whisper, "No plan, you promise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would I lie to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked back from him and slugged him in the shoulder, not hard, but he got my point. Would Edward lie to me? Would the sun rise tomorrow? Yes to both.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The actors that had taken our places were finally on stage, in robes. The priest in his feathers was introducing them, getting the applause they deserved. was glad they ruined the effect and didn't leave poor Ramona convinced she'd done terrible things. I was actually surprised that they'd spoiled the trick, like a magician revealing his secrets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll allow you to eat before the next and last act of our show."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lights came up, and we all turned to our meals. I'd thought the meat was beef, but when I put the first bite in my mouth the texture told me I was wrong. The waitress had brought me an extra napkin, and I used that to spit the bite into.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong?" Bernardo asked. He was eating the meat and enjoying himself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't eat ... veal," I said. I took a forkful of an unrecognizable vegetable, then realized it was sweet potatoes. I didn't recognize the spices in them. Of course, cooking wasn't exactly my area of expertise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone was eating the meat except me, and strangely, Edward. He'd taken a bite, but then he concentrated on the flat bread, and the vegetables, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't eat veal either, Ted?" Olaf asked. He put another bite in his mouth and chewed slowly, as if trying to draw every ounce of flavor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know it's not moral indignation about the poor little calves," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you worry about the poor little calves?" Edward said. He gave me a long look as he asked. I couldn't read his eyes, but they weren't blank, I just couldn't read them. What else was new?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't approve of the treatment of the animals, no, but truthfully I just don't like the texture."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas was watching us all as if we were doing something a lot more interesting than discussing meat. "You don't like the texture of ... veal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No, I don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf had turned to the other woman. He took his latest bite of meat and offered it to her on the end of his fork. "You like veal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She got a strange little smile on her face. "I eat veal here almost every night." She didn't take his bite that he offered but took another bite from her own fork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt like I was missing something, but before I could ask, the lights went down again. The final act was about to begin. If I was still hungry, surely there'd be something open on the way home. There usually was.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_26" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36473922" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36473924" class="calibre7"></a>24 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE LIGHTS WENT DOWN until the room was left in darkness. A dim spot light cut the darkness. The light was only a faint white gleam when it finally stopped at the far, far end of the darkened room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure stepped into that pale gleam. A crown of brilliant red and yellow feathers was bent towards the light. A cloak of smaller feathers covered the figure from neck to the edge of the light. The crown raised, revealing a pale face. It was Cesar. He turned his face to one side, giving profile and showing that he had earrings going from lobe to halfway up the edge of his ear. Gold glittered as he moved his head, and the light grew stronger. He lifted something in his hands and a note of music filled the near dark. A thin trilling note like a flute, but not. The song was beautiful, but eerie, as if something lovely were crying. A jaguar man lifted off the feathered cloak and vanished into the darkness. A heavy gold collar lay across his shoulders and chest. If it were real it was a fortune in precious metal. Hands came from either side of the dark ness, appearing in the light, taking the feathered crown without ever showing themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar walked slowly, and halfway up the room I could see what he was playing. It looked like a panpipe, but not exactly. The song cut through the darkness, crawled through it, one moment uplifting, the next mournful. It looked like he was truly playing it, and if so it was impressive. Jaguar men stripped him of everything he was carrying: a small shield; a strange stick that looked sort of like a bow, but not, a bag of short arrows or something like them. He was close enough now that I could see the jade decoration that he wore in front of his kilt, though I knew it wasn't a kilt, but skirt wasn't right either. The front was covered in feathers; the rest, some rich cloth. More hands came into the light to undo the garment and take it and the jade away. They were close enough now that the darkness and light couldn't hide that the hands belonged to the jaguars. They stripped him down to the flesh-colored G-string he'd worn before, or one like it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The song rose into the dimness as he neared the last few rows of tables. You could almost see the notes rising upward like birds. I don't usually wax poetic about music, but this was different. Somehow you knew it wasn't just a song, just something to listen to and forget, or hum in odd moments. When you think of ritual music, you think of drums, something with a beat to remind us of our hearts, and the ebb and flow of our bodies. But not all ritual is made to remind us of our bodies. Some of it's made to remind us of why the ritual is happening. All ritual at its heart is for the sake of divinity. All right, not all, but most. Most of it is us yelling, hey God, look at me, look at us, hope you like it. We are all just children at heart, hoping Dad or Mom likes the present picked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, sometimes Mom and Dad can have quite a temper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar let the flute or pipes hang from a thong around his neck. He knelt and removed his own sandals, then handed them to a woman at the nearest table. There was a shifting in the dimness as if she wasn't sure she wanted them. Maybe after the earlier show she was afraid to take them. Couldn't really blame her on that one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped at the table just behind that one and spoke quietly to another woman. She stood and removed one of the gold earrings from his ear. Then he went from table to table, and let sometimes men, but mostly women take the last of his decoration from his body. Which probably explained why the earrings were the least expensive, least authentic pieces he'd been wearing. Except for the last earrings. A medium sized jade ball set in each earlobe, but it was the figurines that dangled beneath, moving as his head moved, swaying as he walked, that made the earrings special. Each figure was nearly three inches high, brushing his shoulders like the hair he did not have. As he got closer, you could see the green stone was intricately carved into one of those squat deities the Aztecs were so fond of.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped at our table, and I was surprised because he'd carefully ignored the other "brides" on this walk. He raised me to my feet with one hand in mine, then turned his head so I could reach the earring. I didn't want to stop the show, but they were too expensive a gift to accept unless they were fake. The moment I touched the cool stone, I knew it was real jade. It was too heavy, too smooth to be anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't wear earrings, and I've never had pierced ears, so I was left feeling the back of his ear in the near dark, trying to figure out how to undo the earring. He finally reached up and helped me, hands doing quickly and almost gracefully what I'd been fumbling at. By watching him I realized that they unscrewed, and when he turned his head I was able to get the second one out myself. I knew enough about jewelry to know that the screws were modern. It was real jade, real gold, but it wasn't an antique, or at least the clasps were modern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stones rested heavy and very solid in my hands. He leaned over and whispered, breath warm against my cheek. "I will get them back from you after the performance. Don't interfere." He laid a gentle kiss on my cheek and walked to the bottom step. He took the flute from around his neck and broke off one of the many reeds, scattering it on the step.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat back down, the jade gripped in my hands. I leaned into Edward. "What's about to happen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I've never seen this particular show."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked across the table at Professor Dallas. I wanted to ask her what was going on, but she had all her attention on the stage. Cesar had broken part of the flute on every step as he walked up them. Four jaguar men were waiting at the top, grouped around a small, roundish stone. The priest was there, too, but without the cape. He was even broader through the shoulders than he'd seemed, and though not tall you got the impression of sheer strength, sheer physicality. He seemed more warrior than priest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cesar had made it to the top of the temple. The four jaguar men grabbed him, by wrist and ankle, lifting him over their heads, steadying his body with their hands. They paced the stage with him held above their heads, showing him to the four corners of the stage, even the one that faced away from the audience. Then they brought him to the small round stone and laid his body across it, so that his head and shoulders leaned back, and the lowest part of his chest and upper stomach were curved over the stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was on my feet before I saw the obsidian blade in the priest's hand Edward grabbed my arm. "Look to your left," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced and found two of the jaguar men waiting. If I made a run for the stage, I bet they'd try and stop me. Cesar had said that he'd come for the earrings after the performance. Which implied he'd be alive to do it. He'd warned me not to interfere. But dammit, they were going to cut him up. I knew that now. What I didn't know, was how badly they were going to cut him up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas had gotten up from her seat and was at my other arm, whispering, "It's part of the show. Cesar plays sacrifice twice a month. Not always this exact sacrifice, but it's part of his job." She spoke low and soothingly like you talked to a crazy person on a ledge. I let her and Edward ease me back into my seat I was gripping the jade earrings so hard the edges dug into my hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas knelt beside me, keeping a hand on my arm, but she watched the stage. The jaguar men held him, and you could see their grip tighten, sec them take in their collective breaths. Cesar's face showed nothing, not fear, not anticipation, just waiting for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest drove the blade into the flesh just below the ribs. Cesar's body jerked in reaction, but he didn't cry out. The blade tore across him, digging into the meat, widening the hole. His body danced with the wound, but he never made a sound. Blood poured across Cesar's pale skin, bright and almost unreal under the lights. The priest reached his hand into the wound nearly up to his elbow, and Cesar cried out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grabbed Dallas's arm. "He can't survive without his heart, not even a shapeshifter can survive that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They won't take his heart, I swear it." She stroked my hand where it gripped her like you'd soothe a nervous dog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned in close to her, and whispered, "If they take his heart when I could have stopped it, I'll have your heart on a knife before I leave New Mexico. You still willing to swear?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes had gone wide. I think she was holding her breath, but she nodded. "I swear it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The funny thing was that she believed the threat instantly. Most people you tell them you're going to cut their heart out and they won't believe you. People believe you'll kill them, but get too graphic and they take it like a joke or an exaggeration. Professor Dallas believed me. You could see it in her face. Most college professors wouldn't have. Made me wonder about Dallas more than I already did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest's voice came into the utter silence that had filled the room. "I hold his heart in my hand. In the long gone days we would have torn it from his chest, but those days are gone," and you heard, felt the regret in his words. "We worship as we can, not as we would." He slid his hand out slowly, and I was close enough to hear the wet, fleshy sound as his hand pulled out of the wound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised a hand covered in blood above his head, and the audience cheered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They cheered. They fucking cheered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jaguar men lifted Cesar from the altar and tossed him down the steps. He tumbled bonelessly coming to rest on the floor directly in front of the steps. He lay on his back, gasping, fighting to breathe and I wondered if the priest had damaged a lung or two when he went fishing for the heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just sat there, staring at him. He did this twice a month. It was part of his job. Shit. Not only didn't I understand it, I didn't want to. If he was into pain and death, I didn't need to know anything else about him. I was eyeball deep in sadomasochistic wereleopards back home. I didn't need another one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The priest was talking, but I didn't hear him. I didn't hear anything but a great roaring like white noise in my ears. I watched the wereleopard twitch, body jerking, blood pouring down his sides, across the floor, but even as I stared, the blood was slowing. It was hard to tell through all the blood and torn flesh, but I knew he was healing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two of the human bouncers came and picked him up, one taking his ankles, the other lifting under his arms. They carried him through the tables, past us. I stood, stopping them. Dallas stood with me, as if afraid of what I'd do. I stared into Cesar's eyes. There was real pain there. He wasn't having a good time or didn't seem to be. But you don't do shit like this on a regular basis unless you enjoy it on some level. His hands were lying on his chest, as if he were trying to hold himself together. I pried one hand up. The skin was slick with blood. I pressed the jade earrings into his hand, closed his fingers around them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He whispered something, but I didn't bend down to hear. "Don't ever come near me again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat back down, and they carried him away. I started to reach for a napkin to wipe my hands, but Dallas grabbed my arm. "She's ready to see you now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hadn't seen anyone talk to her, but I wasn't questioning it. If she said it was time, fine. We could meet the Master of the City and get the hell out of here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to reach for the napkin again, but she moved it out of reach. "It is fitting that you meet her with the blood of sacrifice on your hands."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at her and grabbed the napkin out of her hands. She actually struggled to keep it, and we had a little tug of war before I jerked it away from her. But a woman appeared at my elbow. She wore a red-hooded cloak and came up only to my shoulder, but even before she turned her head so I could see the face that lay inside that cloak, I knew what she was. Itzpapalotl, Obsidian Butterfly, Master of the City, and self-proclaimed goddess. I hadn't felt her coming. I hadn't heard her or sensed her. She just appeared beside me like magic. It had been a long time since a vampire had been able to do that. I think I stopped breathing for a second or two as I met her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her face was as delicate as the rest of her, her skin a milk-pale brown. Her eyes were black, not just brown, but truly black like the obsidian blade she was named for. Most master vamp's eyes are like drowning pools, things to fall into and be trapped, but her eyes were like solid black mirrors reflecting back, not something to fall into, but something to show you the truth. I saw myself in those eyes, a miniature reflection perfect in every detail like a black cameo. Then the image split, doubling, tripling. My face stayed in the center with a wolf's head on one side, and a skull on the other. As I watched, the three images grew closer until the wolf and skull were superimposed over my face, and for a split second I couldn't tell where one image left off and the others began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One image floated above the rest. The skull rose above the first two, spilling upward through the blackness, filling her eyes until the skull filled my vision, and I was able to stumble back, nearly falling. Edward was there, catching me. Dallas had moved to stand beside the vampire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo and Olaf were at Edward's back, and I knew in that instant that if he'd given the word, they'd have both drawn guns and fired. It was a comforting thought. Suicidal, but comforting. Because I could feel her people now, which meant she had to have been blocking me, hiding them. I felt the vampires underneath the building, around it, through it. There were hundreds of them, and most of them were old. Hundreds of years old. And Obsidian Butterfly? I glanced at her but was careful not to meet her eyes this time. It had been years since I'd had to avoid a vampire's eyes. I'd forgotten how hard it is to look someone in the face without making eye contact, like some elaborate game. Them trying to catch my glance and bespell me, me trying to keep away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had a fall of straight black bangs, but the rest of her hair was pulled back from her face to reveal delicate ears set with jade ear spools. She was a delicate thing, petite even standing next to me and Professor Dallas, but I wasn't fooled by the packaging. What lay inside was a vampire not that old. I doubted she was a thousand years yet. I'd met older, much older, but I'd never met any vampire under a thousand that echoed in my head with the power that this one did. Power breathed off her skin like a nearly visible cloud, and I'd learned enough of vampires to know that the echo of power wasn't on purpose. Some of the masters with special abilities, like causing fear or lust, just gave off that power constantly like steam rising from a pot. It was involuntary, partially at least. But I'd never met one that leaked power, pure power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was talking to me, probably had been talking to me for a while. I just hadn't heard. "Anita, Anita, are you all right?" I felt the press of a gun not pointed at my back, but drawn, using my body to shield it from the room. Things could get ugly really fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm all right," but my voice didn't sound all right. It sounded hollow and distant, like I was in shock. Maybe I was, a little. She hadn't exactly rolled my mind, but she knew things about me in that first contact that most vampires never figured out. I realized suddenly that she knew what kind of power I was. That was her gift, to be able to read power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her voice when it came was heavily accented and much deeper than that fragile throat should have held, as if the voice was an echo of that immense power. "Whose servant are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew I was a vampire's human servant, but not whose servant I was. I liked that, made me feel better. She read only power, not details, unless of course, she was only pretending not to know. But somehow I didn't think she'd pretend ignorance. No, this was one that liked showing off her knowledge. She breathed arrogance as she breathed power. But why not be arrogant? She was, after all, a goddess, self-proclaimed anyway. You'd have to be either absolutely arrogant or crazy to claim godhood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jean-Claude, Master of the City of St. Louis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She cocked her head to one side as if listening to something. "Then you are the Executioner. You did not give your true name at the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not all vampires will talk to me if they know who I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it you wish to speak with me about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The mutilation murders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again, she turned her head to one side as if listening. "Ah, yes." She blinked and looked up at me. "The price for an audience is what lies on your hands."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must have looked as puzzled as I felt, because she elaborated. "The blood, Cesar's blood. I wish to take it from you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?" I asked, just call me suspicious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She simply turned and started walking away. Her voice came like the sound to a badly dubbed film, sound long after it should have been heard. "Follow me, and do not clean your hands."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward. "Do you trust her?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me either," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are we going or staying?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I vote for going," Bernardo said. I hadn't really looked at him since the sacrifice began. He was looking a little pale. Olaf wasn't. Olaf looked fresh and bright-eyed, as if he were enjoying the evening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas said, "It would be a grave insult if you refuse her invitation. She rarely gives personal interviews voluntarily. You must have impressed her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't impress her. I attracted her," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas frowned. "Attracted her. She likes men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "She may have sex with men, but what attracts her is power, Professor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at me, searching my face. "You have that kind of power?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "We'll find out, won't we?" I started walking in the direction that the cloaked figure had gone. She hadn't waited for us to decide. She'd just walked away. Like I said, arrogant. Of course, we were about to follow her into her private lair. That was arrogance, too, or stupidity. Arrogance or stupidity, sometimes there's not much difference between the two.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_27" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36474298" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36474300" class="calibre7"></a>25 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I DIDN'T KNOW where to go, but Dallas did. She led us to a small door set to one side of the temple steps, hidden by curtains. The door was still open, like a black mouth. Steps led down. Where else? Just once I'd like to see a vamp whose major hideout was up instead of down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas walked down the steps with a spring in her step and a song in her heart. Her ponytail bounced as she skipped down the steps. If she had a single misgiving about going down into that darkness, it didn't show. Dallas confused me. On one hand she didn't see that Olaf was dangerous, and she wasn't afraid of any of the monsters in the club. On the other hand, she'd believed me when I told her I'd cut her heart out. I'd seen it in her eyes. How could she believe that threat from a total stranger and not see the other dangers? Didn't make sense to me, and I didn't like what I didn't understand. She seemed utterly harmless, but her reactions were weird, so I put a question mark by her. Which meant, I wouldn't be turning my back on her or treating her like a civilian until I was convinced that that was what she was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was going too slowly for Olaf. He pushed past me and followed Dallas's bouncing ponytail down the stairs. He had to stoop to keep from bumping his head on the ceiling, but he didn't seem to mind. Fine with me. Let him take the first bullet. But I followed them down into the dark. No one had offered me violence, not really, not yet. So it seemed rude to have a gun naked in my hand, but ... I'd apologize later. Unless I knew the vampire personally I liked having a loaded gun in hand the first time I paid a call. Or maybe it was the narrow stairs, the close press of stone as if it would close around us like a fist and crush us. Have I mentioned that I'm claustrophobic?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stairs didn't go down very far, and there was no door at the end of them. Jean-Claude's retreat in St. Louis was something of an underground fortress. The barely hidden doorway, the short stairs, no second door -- arrogance, again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf blocked my view of Dallas, but I saw him reach the dimly lit doorway at the bottom. He had to stoop even further to get through the door and hesitated before standing up on the other side. There was a sense of movement around him or rather to either side of him. Quick, almost not there, like things you see out of the comer of your eyes. It reminded me of the hands that had stripped Cesar as he walked between light and darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stayed just in the doorway, his body nearly filling it completely, blocking what little light there had been. I caught the faintest edge of Dallas. She led him away from the door further into the firelit dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I called down, "Olaf, are you okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward tried. "Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced back at Edward. We had a moment of staring into each other's eyes, both of us thinking the same thing. This could be a trap. Maybe she was behind the murders. Maybe she just wanted to kill the Executioner. Or maybe she was a centuries-old vampire, and she just wanted to hurt us for the hell of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could she make Olaf lie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean mind tricks?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not this fast. I may not like him, but he's stronger than that." I looked at him, searching his face in the dim light. "Could they force him to lie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean a knife at his throat?" Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a faint smile. "No, not this quick, not ever."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're sure of that?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My life on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're betting all our lives on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Yes, we are." But if Edward said that Olaf wouldn't sell us out on fear of death or pain, then I believed him. Edward didn't always understand why people did what they did, but he was usually right about the fact that they were going to do it, Motive evaded him, but he was seldom wrong. So ... I kept walking down the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I strained my peripheral vision, trying to see on either side of the doorway as I walked through it. I didn't have to bend over to go through. The room was square and small, maybe sixteen by sixteen. It was also packed nearly corner to corner with vampires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put my back against the wall to the right of the door, gun clutched two-handed, pointed at the ceiling. I wanted badly to point it at someone, anyone. My shoulders ached with the tension of not doing it. No one was threatening me. No one was doing a damn thing except standing, staring, milling around the way people do. So why did I feel like I should have entered the room shooting?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tall vampires, short vampires, thin vampires, fat vampires, every size, every shape, and almost every race, moved around that small stone room. After what had happened upstairs with their master, I was careful not to make eye contact with any of them. My gaze swept over the room, taking in the pale faces, and getting a quick head count. When I got over sixty, I realized the room was at least twice the size I'd originally thought. It had to be just to hold this many of them. It only looked small because it was packed so tight. The torchlight added to the illusion, flickering, dancing, uncertain light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stayed in the doorway, his back to the doorframe, shoulder touching mine lightly. His gun was up like mine, his eyes searching the vamps. "What's wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong? Look at them." My voice was breathy, not because I was trying to whisper -- that would have been useless -- but because my throat was tight, my mouth dry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He scanned the crowd again. "So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My gaze flashed to him, then back to the waiting vampires. "Shit, Ed ... Ted. Shit." It wasn't just the number of them. It was my own ability to sense them that was the problem. I'd been around a hundred vamps before, but they hadn't affected me like this. I didn't know if having walled off my link to Jean-Claude made me more vulnerable to them, or if my necromancy had grown since then. Or maybe Itzpapalotl was just that much more powerful than the other master had been. Maybe it was her power that had made them so much more than most vamps. There were close to a hundred in this room. I was getting impressions from all of them, or most of them. My shields were great now, I could keep out a lot of the preternatural stuff, but this was too much for me. If I had to guess, there wasn't a vamp in the room under a hundred. I got flashes from individual ones if I looked at them too long, a slap in the face of their age, their power. The four females in the right corner were all over five hundred years old. They watched me with dark eyes, dark-skinned, but not as dark as they would have been with a little sun. The four of them watched me with patient, empty faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her voice came from the center of the room, but she was hidden behind the vampires, shielded by them. "I have offered you no violence, yet you have drawn weapons. You seek my aid, yet you threaten me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not personal, Itz ... " I stumbled over her name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You may call me Obsidian Butterfly." It was odd talking to her without being able to glimpse her through the waiting figures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not personal, Obsidian Butterfly. I just know that once I put up the gun, chances of drawing it again before one of your brood rips my throat out is damn small."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mistrust us," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As you mistrust us," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laughed then. Her laughter was the sound of a young woman, normal but the strained echoes from the other vampires were anything but normal. The laughter held a wild note to it, a desperation, as if they were afraid not to laugh. I wondered what the penalty was for not following her lead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The laughter faded away, except for one high pitched masculine sound. The other vampires went still, that impossible stillness where they seem like well-made statues, things made of stone and paint, not real, not alive. They waited like a host of empty things. Waited for what? The only sound was that high, unhealthy laughter, rising up and up like the sounds the movies have you hear in insane asylums, or mad scientists' laboratories. The sound raised the hair on my arms, and it wasn't magic. It was just creepy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you put up your guns, I will send most of my people away. That is fair, is it not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was fair, but I didn't like it. I liked having the gun naked in my hands. Of course, the gun only worked if shooting a few of them would stop the rest from rushing us, and it wouldn't. If she said, go to hell, they'd start digging a hole. If she told them to rush us, they most certainly would. So the guns were just a security blanket, a delaying tactic before the end. It took only a few seconds to think it through, but that awful laughter kept going like it was one of those creepy dolls with a laugh track inside of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt Edward's shoulder pressing against mine. He was waiting for me to give the answer, trusting my expertise. I hoped I didn't get us killed. I put the gun back in its holster. I rubbed my hand against my leg. I'd been holding the gun too long, and too damn tight. Me, nervous?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward put his gun up. Bernardo was still in the stairway, and I realized that he was making sure nothing came down the stairs and blocked our retreat. It was kind of nice working with more than just two people and knowing everyone on your side was willing to shoot anything that moved. No bleeding hearts, no empathy, just business.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, Olaf was off to one side with Dallas. He had never pulled a gun. He had waded into this many vampires, following her bouncing ponytail to destruction. Or at least to potential destruction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampires drew a breath, each chest rising as one, as if they were many bodies with one mind. Life, for lack of a better term, flowed back into them. Some of them looked almost human, but many of them were pale and starved, and weak. Their faces were too thin, as if the bones of their skull would push out through the sickly skin. They were all pale, but the natural skin color of many was darker than Caucasian, so even pale, they weren't the ghostly paleness I was used to seeing. I realized with something like shock that most of the vampires I knew were Caucasian. Here, white skin was the minority. A nice reversal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampires began to glide towards the door. Or some of them glided. Some of them shuffled as if they didn't have energy to pick their feet up, as if they were truly ill. To my knowledge vampires couldn't catch any disease, but these vampires looked sick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of them stumbled and fell at my feet, landing heavily on hands and knees. He stayed where he was, head hanging down. His skin was a dirty white like snow that had lain too long by a busy road, a greyish white. The other vampires moved around him as if he were a bump in the road. They flowed past him, and he didn't seem to notice. His hands looked like the hands of a skeleton, barely covered with skin. His hair was a blond so light, it looked white, hanging down around his face. He raised his face up, slowly, and it was like looking at a skull. His eyes had sunk so far into his head that they seemed to burn at the end of long black tunnels. I wasn't afraid of looking in this one's eyes. He didn't have enough juice to roll me with his eyes, I could tell that just standing here. The bones of his cheeks pushed so hard against the thin skin that it looked like they should tear through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Apale tongue slid from between thin nearly invisible lips. His eyes were a pale, pale green, like bad emeralds. The thin walls of his nose flared as if he were scenting the air. He probably was. Vamps didn't rely on scent the way shapeshifters did, but they had a much better sense of smell than humans. He closed his eyes in the middle of drawing a deep breath. He shuddered and seemed to swoon, faint. I'd never seen a vamp act like this. It caught me off guard, and that was my fault.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw him tense, and my hand was going for the Browning, but there was no time. He was less than a foot away. I never even touched the gun before he slammed into me. He knocked the breath from my body. His hand was on my face, turning my head to one side, baring my neck, before I had time to breathe. I had a sense of movement even though I couldn't see him. I felt his body tense and I knew he was coming in for a strike. He made no effort to control my hands. I kept going for the gun, but I would never get it out and pointed in time. He was going to sink fang into my neck, and I couldn't stop it. It was like a car accident. I just had time to see it coming and to think, "I can't stop it." There wasn't even time to be afraid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something jerked the vampire backwards. His hand curled in my jacket, and didn't let go. His desperate grip nearly pulled me off my feet, but I got the gun out before I worried about staying on my feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A large, very Aztec-looking vamp had the skeletal vamp, holding him pinned against his body, only that one arm with its clutching hand not pressed to the larger man's body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had his gun out pointed at the vampires. He'd gotten to his gun first, but then he hadn't been shoved up against a wall and manhandled. Or would that be vampire-handled?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big vamp jerked the thin one hard enough that he nearly pulled me off my feet, but that one clutching hand stayed curled in my jacket, catching on the shirt underneath. I had the Browning pointed at the vamp's chest, though I wasn't sure if the Hornady ammo was safe to shoot at arm's distance into one target pressed directly in front of another person. I wasn't sure if the ammo would go through the first vamp and into the second. The second vamp had saved me. It really wouldn't be nice to blow a hole in him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other vampires were leaving the room in a hurrying line to get past us and up the stairs, out of harm's way. Cowards. But it was thinning out the ranks, which would be great. Eventually, I'd care that there weren't so damn many vamps in the room, but right now the world was narrowed down to the vamp that had hold of me. First things first.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big vamp kept backing up, trying to get the skeletal one to let go of me. We kept moving further into the room. Edward paced us, gun held two-handed pointed at the vampire's head. I finally put the barrel of my gun underneath the vamp's chin. I could blow his brains up without hitting the second vampire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Obsidian Butterfly's voice slashed through the room like a whip. The sound made me wince, shoulders tightening as if it had been a blow. "These are my guests. How dare you attack them!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The skeletal vampire started to cry, and his tears were clear, human. Vampire's tears are tinged red. They cry bloody tears. "Please, please let me feed, please!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You feed as we all feed, as befits a god."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please, please, mistress, please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You disgrace me before our visitors." Then she spoke low and rapidly in a language that was sort of Spanish sounding, but it wasn't Spanish. I don't speak Spanish, but I've heard it spoken often enough to know it when I hear it, and this wasn't it. Whatever she was saying, upset both vampires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The big one pulled so hard that he finally jerked me off my feet because the other vamp was still holding on. I ended up on my knees, my jacket and shirt dangling from the vamp's hand, one arm pulled up at an awkward angle. My gun was pressed into his stomach now, and again I wondered if at point blank range the new ammo would kill both vamps? It was a miracle that I hadn't accidentally shot his head off. Edward was still there, gun pointed at the vamp's head. The first hint I had that something else had gone wrong was a faint glow. The glow grew into something pure and white. My cross had spilled out of my shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire kept his grip on me, but started to scream in a high pitiful voice. The cross flared bright and brighter until I had to turn my head and shield my eyes. It was like having magnesium burning around your neck. So bright, it only got this bright when something very bad was near. I didn't think the something bad was the thing still hanging onto me. I was betting the cross was glowing for her benefit, maybe others' but mostly hers. A lot of things in the room could kill me, but nothing else in the room was worth this much of a light show.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let him go to his destiny," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the arm that was still pulling so desperately, go limp. I felt him kneeling, felt it through the barrel of the gun still pressed against him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, "Anita?" It was a question, but I didn't have an answer yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked past the light, trying to see. The vampire put a hand on either side of my shoulders. His eyes were squeezed shut against the light. His face stretched wide with pain. The white light glistened on fangs as he moved in to feed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop, or die," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm not sure he even heard me. His hand caressed the edge of my cheek, and it was like being touched by fleshy sticks. His hands didn't even feel real. I yelled, "I'll kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do so. It's his choice." Her voice was so matter of fact, so uncaring, that it made me not want to do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His hand grabbed my hair, tried to twist my face to one side. His head was drawn back for a strike, but he couldn't push past the glare of the cross. But he might work up to it. As weak as he was, he should have run screaming from this much holy light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," Edward's voice and it wasn't a question now, more a preview.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire let out a scream that made me gasp. His head threw back, then down, and his face moved in a white blur towards me. The gun went off before I realized I'd squeezed the trigger, just a reflex. A second gun echoed so close on my shot that it sounded like a single gunshot. The vamp jerked, and his head exploded. Blood and thicker things sprayed half my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knelt in a sudden deafening silence. There was no sound, nothing but a line, distant ringing in my ears, like tinny bells. I turned in a sort of slow motion to see the vamp's body sprawled on its side, I got to my feet and still couldn't hear anything. Sometimes that's shock. Sometimes it's just gunshots going off next to your ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I scraped at the blood and thicker pieces on the left side of my face. Edward handed me a white handkerchief, probably something Ted would carry, but I took it. I started trying to scrape the stuff off of me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cross was still glowing like a captive star. I was already deaf. If I didn't stop having to squint around the light, I was going to be blind as well. I looked around the room. Most of the vamps had fled up the stairs away from the cross's glow, but what was left huddled around their goddess, shielding her, I think, from us. I blinked through the glare, and I think I saw fear on one or two faces. You don't see that often on several hundred years worth of vampire. It might have been the cross, but I didn't think that was it. I slipped the cross back into my shirt. The cross was still cool silver. It never burned unless vampire flesh touched it. Then it would flare into actual flame and burn the vamp and any human flesh that happened to be touching it at the same time. Usually, the vamp would jerk away before you got past second degree burns so I'd never gotten a scar from one of my own crosses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampires stayed in front of their mistress, and the fear was still there on at least one face. The cross could keep them at bay, but that wasn't what they feared. I looked down at the body. The entrance hole was just a small red thing, with black scorch marks around it, but the exit hole was nearly a foot in diameter. There was no head on the body, only the lower jaw and a thin rim of back brain left. The rest had been blown in a wide spray across the floor and across me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's mouth was moving, and sound came back in a kind of Doppler shift, so that I heard only the end of it. " ... ammo are you using now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knelt by the body and inspected the chest wound. "I thought the Hornady XTP wasn't supposed to make this much of a mess going out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice still sounded like it was distant, tinny, but I could hear again It meant that my hearing would go back to normal eventually. "I don't think they did any firing tests at point blank range."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It makes a nice hole at point blank range."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In like a penny, out like a pizza," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You had questions about the murders?" Obsidian Butterfly said. "Ask them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was standing in the middle of her people, but no longer shielded. I don't know if she decided we weren't going to shoot her, or if she thought it was cowardice to hide behind others, or if we'd passed some kind of test. But if she were willing to answer my questions, then I'd take it any way I could get it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw Dallas and Olaf to one side of the vamps. Dallas had her face hidden against his chest, and he was holding her, comforting her, helping her not see the mess on the floor. Olaf was looking down at her as if she were something precious. It wasn't love, more the way a man will look at a really nice car that he wants to own. He looked at her like she was a pretty thing that he'd wanted but hadn't expected to get. He stroked her hair, running his fingers through the long dark ponytail over and over, playing with her hair, watching it fall against her back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wasn't the only one watching them. "Cruz, take the professor upstairs. I think she's seen enough for one night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A short male vamp, very Hispanic, went to them, but Olaf said, "I'll take her upstairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Itzpapalotl said, "That will not be necessary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three of us exchanged a glance, though I didn't meet her eyes dead on. But there was an understanding between us, I think. Olaf needed to stay away from the professor. Maybe a state or two away from her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cruz pulled Dallas out of Olaf's reluctant arms and led the crying woman up the stairs, and away from the horror we'd stretched out on the floor. Though we hadn't made the vampire a horror, we just killed him. Itzpapalotl had starved him until he faced a glowing cross for the chance to feed. Starved him until he'd let two humans point guns at him and not even try to get away. He'd wanted to sink fangs into human flesh more than he'd wanted to live. I don't usually feel sorry for vampires that try to feed off of me, especially without permission, but this one time I'd make an exception. He'd been pitiful. Now he was dead. Pity has never stopped me from pulling a trigger, and Edward didn't feel pity. I could stare down at what was left of that skeletal body and think, poor thing, but I felt nothing about the death. It wasn't just that I didn't feel regret. I felt nothing, absolutely nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Edward, and he looked at me, and I'd have given a great deal for a mirror right that second. Staring into Edward's blank face, those empty eyes that felt nothing, I realized that I didn't need a mirror. I already had one.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_28" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36474789" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36474791" class="calibre7"></a>26 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MAYBE I'D HAVE BEEN afraid of that revelation, but the vampires began to flow out towards us. Survival first, moral issues later. Richard might say that was one of my biggest problems. Jean-Claude wouldn't. There's more than one reason why Richard and I haven't settled down to a happy ever afterlife, and there's more than one reason why I haven't cut Jean-Claude loose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Itzpapalotl glided forward still shrouded in the scarlet cloak. It was so long that you couldn't see her feet and she moved so smoothly that it looked like she was on wheels. There was something artificial about her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four silent women moved on her left, and something bothered me about the way they moved. It took me a second or two to realize what it was. They were moving in utter unison, perfect step. One lifted a hand to brush a strand of black hair from her face, and all the others followed the movement like puppets, though there was no stray hair on their faces. From the breaths that raised their chests, to the small jerk of a finger, they imitated each other. No, not imitated, that was too mild a word. They were like one being with four bodies. The effect was eerie because they didn't look alike. One was short and square. One was tall and thin. The other two were delicate and did look something alike. All of them had paler skin than Itzpapalotl, as if in life they hadn't been much darker than they were now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall vamp that had tried to pull the starving vamp off me walked to her right. He was the tallest of the ones that looked pure Aztec, six feet at least, with shoulders and muscles to match. His hair fell in a black wash down Ins back, held from his face by a crown of feathers and gold. His nose was pierced though that was too mild a word for the three inches of thick gold that bisected his face. Gold earplugs stretched his earlobes to a thin line of flesh. His skin was the color that old ivory sometimes gets, not a pale gold, but a pale copper, palest bronze. It was a striking color with the coal black hair and the perfectly black eyes. He moved two steps back, at her right, and like the women he moved as if this had always been his place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three male vamps moved a little distance from the man. They were all that shining ivory white that I was used to seeing. They were dressed in the same clothing as the bouncers, those skirt/thong bathing suit thingies. But they had no adornment. Their arms and legs were pale and empty. They were even barefoot. I knew servants when I saw them or prisoners maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One was medium height with curly brown hair cut short, and a darker brown line of beard and mustache outlining the perfect whiteness of the skin. The eyes were pale blue. The second man was shorter with short hair turned salt and pepper as if he'd died after the hair had gone grey. The face was lined, but strong, and the body still muscular, so that his age at death was hard to tell. Older than the others, fortyish, though I was no judge of age of death in vamps. His eyes were the dark gray of storm clouds, echoing his hair color.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held a leash in one hand, and on the end of that leash the third man crawled, not on all fours, but on his hands, and his feet, legs hunched monkey like, or like a whipped dog. His hair was short and a surprising yellow, curling soft. It was the only thing on him that looked alive. His skin was like old paper, clinging and yellowed to his bones. His eyes were sunk so far back into his head that I couldn't tell what color they were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The end of the entourage was five very Hispanic, Aztecy bodyguards. Bodyguards are bodyguards regardless of the culture, the century, or state of life, or would that be death? I knew muscle when I saw it, and the five vamps were muscle, even carrying obsidian blades, and obsidian-edged clubs, and looking somewhat less than serious in feathers and jewelry. They exuded that aura of badass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf had moved back to stand with us, and the three of us faced them. Bernardo had stayed near the stairway, making sure our retreat wasn't cut off. So nice to work with other professionals. Olaf had his gun out now, too, and was watching the vamps with a look that wasn't neutral. It was hostile. I didn't know why, but he seemed pissed. Go figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vamps stopped about eight feet from us. The dead vampire lay on the floor between us. The body had already stopped bleeding. When you take a head off of a vamp, they bleed just like a human, quarts and quarts of the red stuff. It is a freaking mess when you decapitate someone. But this vampire had bled only a small odd-shaped space on the stone floor, barely a foot across, and a second even smaller pool under the chest. Not nearly enough blood for what we'd done to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence seemed thicker than it should have, and Olaf filled it. "You can check his pulse if you want."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf, don't," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf shifted, either uncomfortable, or fighting down the urge to do something worse than mouthing off. "You're the boss," he said, but not like he meant it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I doubt this one had a pulse," I said, and I was looking at the vampires while I said it. "It takes energy to make a vamp's heart beat and he didn't have any."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You feel pity for him," Itzpapalotl said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I guess I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your friend does not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward. His face showed nothing. It was nice to know there were still some differences between us. I felt pity. He didn't. "Probably he doesn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But there is no regret in either of you, no guilt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why should we feel guilty? We just killed him. We didn't turn him into a crawling, starved thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even under the masking cloak, I could feel her grow still with that awful stillness that only the old ones have. Her voice came warm with the first thread of anger. "You presume to judge me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, just stating facts. If he hadn't been starved worse than any vamp I've ever seen outside of a coffin prison, he would never have attacked me." I also thought that they could have tried harder to get him off of me, but didn't say it out loud. I really didn't want to piss her off with eighty or so vamps waiting upstairs between us and the door. That wasn't even taking into account the werejaguars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if I told my starved ones that they could feed off of you, all of them, what would they do?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The starved vamp on the leash looked up at that. His eyes never stayed on anyone too long, flitting from face to face to face, but he'd heard her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My stomach jerked tight in a knot hard enough to hurt. I had to blow out a breath to be able to talk around the sudden flutter of my pulse. There'd been at least ten, fifteen of the starved ones. "They'd attack us," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They would fall upon you like ravening dogs," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded, hand settling more securely on the butt of my gun. "Yeah." If she gave the order, my first bullet was going between her eyes. If I died, I wanted to take her with me. Vindictive, but true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The thought frightens you," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to see her face in that hood, but some trick of shadow left only her small bowed mouth visible. "If you can feel all these emotions, then you can tell alie from a truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She lifted her face, a sudden defiant movement. A look passed over her face, the barest flicker across that calmness. She really couldn't tell lie from truth. Yet she sensed regret, pity, fear. Truth and lie should have come in there somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My starved ones are useful from time to time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you starve them deliberately."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she said. "The great creator god sees they are weak and does not sustain them as he sustains us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are allowed to feed as gods feed, not as animals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned. "Sorry, I still don't get it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We will show you how a god feeds, Anita." She said my name like it was meant to be said, making it a rolling three syllable word, making of the ordinary name something exotic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shapeshifter coming down," Bernardo said. He had his gun up and pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have called a priest to feed the gods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let him come down," I said. I looked at that delicate face and tried to read what was there, but there was nothing home that I could talk to, nothing I could understand. "I don't mean to be insulting, my apologies if I am being insulting, but we came here to talk about the murders. I would like to ask you some questions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your vast knowledge of things arcane and things Aztec has brought us to you," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fought not to raise eyebrows at him, just nodding. "Yeah, what he said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She actually smiled. "You still believe I and my people are merely vampires. <em class="calibre9">You </em>do not truly believe that we are gods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had me there, but she couldn't smell a lie. "I'm Christian. You saw that when the cross glowed. That means I'm a monotheist, so if you guys are gods, then it's something of a problem for me." That was so diplomatic, even I was impressed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We will prove it to you, then we will offer you hospitality as our guests, then we will talk business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've learned over the years that if someone says they're a god, you don't argue with them unless you're better armed. So I didn't try and get the business moved up. She was nuts and had enough muscle backing her in this building to make her brand of craziness contagious, or even fatal. So we'd do arcane vampire shit, then when the self-proclaimed goddess was satisfied I'd get to ask my questions. How bad could it be, watching them prove they were gods? Don't answer that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar that came through the door was the blue-eyed blond with his golden tan that had first passed so near our table that I'd touched his fur. He came through the door with a neutral face, empty-eyed as if he wasn't entirely sure he wanted to be here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His gaze took in the room, and hesitated over the dead vamp in the middle. But he fell to one knee in front of Itzpapalotl, his back to us and our guns, fur-covered head bowed. "What would you have of me, holy mistress?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fought to keep my face blank. Holy mistress? Good grief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to show our visitors how a god is fed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up then, looking into her face. "Who am I to worship, holy mistress?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Diego," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The brown-haired vampire startled at the name, and though his face was blank, empty, I knew he wasn't happy. "Yes, my dark goddess, what would you have of me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seth will offer sacrifice to you." She caressed a delicate hand across the fur of the man's hood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As you like, my dark goddess," Diego said. His voice was as empty as his face tried to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar, Seth, crawled on all fours, mimicking the animal whose skin he wore. He pressed his forehead to his hands, lying nearly prostrate at Diego's feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rise, priest of our dark goddess, and make sacrifice to us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar stood, and he was nearly half a foot taller than the vampire. He did something on the front of the jaguar skin, and it opened, enough for him to lift the headpiece over his head, so that the animal's sightless glass eyes stared back at us over the man's shoulders. The head flopped bonelessly like a broken-necked thing. His hair was a rich honey blond, sun-streaked, held back in a long club, woven back and forth so that it looked like a lot of hair, but held close to his head so the jaguar skin would slip on easily. It was just like the hairdo on the one who had gotten cut up by the priest back stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Turn so our visitors can see all," Itzpapalotl said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men turned so we had a side view. The werejaguar's earlobes were covered in thick white scars. He drew a small silver knife from his belt, the hilt was carved jade. He placed the sliver blade against his earlobe, steadying it with his other hand and sliced it open. Blood spilled in scarlet lines on his fingers, down the blade, to drip on the shoulders of the jaguar skin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Diego went to the taller man, putting a hand behind his neck, and another at the small of his back. It looked oddly like a kiss, as he drew the werejaguar's head downward. The vampire's mouth sealed around the earlobe, drawing it and some of the ear into his mouth. His throat worked as he swallowed, sucking on the wound, drawing it down. The pale blue of his eyes had spread to a sparkling fire like palest sapphires sparkling in the sun. His skin began to glow as if there was white fire inside. The brown of his hair darkened, or maybe that was illusion because of how glowing white his skin had become.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar had closed his eyes, head thrown back, breath catching in his throat, as if it felt good. One of his hands lay on the vampire's bare shoulder, and you could see the pressure of his fingers in that pale, glowing flesh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Diego drew back, flashing fangs. "The wound closes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another offering, my cat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire moved back just enough for the other man to use the silver blade on the other ear. Then he fell on him, like a lover long refused. He drew back, eyes sparkling with blue light. He looked blind and heavy-lidded as he drew back from him. "The wound closes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was actually interesting that the wound closed as fast as it did. Vamps had an anticoagulant in their saliva that should have kept it flowing, and silver should have forced the shapeshifter to heal human normal, but the wound was closing pretty fast, not fast enough to make me comfortable, but a lot faster than it should have. The only thing I could figure was that Itzpapalotl had somehow given her shapeshifters even more healing ability than a normal shapeshifter. Maybe normal silver bullets wouldn't work on them, not to kill them anyway. It was something to think about, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want them to see what it is to be a god, Diego. Show them, my cat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar opened a seam on the fur that looked almost like it was Velcroed shut. He slit open the front of the fur, having to stop and undo the belt that held knives and a small pouch. The belt dropped to the floor, and he slipped the fur down his body. The golden tan was an all over tan, complete with ... um, you know. Nude sun bathing, how unhealthy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The jaguar slipped out of the skin until he stood completely nude. He still had the silver knife in his hand. I didn't have a clue what he was about to use it on, but having to strip couldn't be a good sign. He cupped his own penis, and it had come out of the fur smooth and hard, excited. He put the point of the blade against that delicate skin and drew it in a thin crimson line. His breath ran out in a ragged gasp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was echoed by me and Olaf. Bernardo said, "Shit!" Eeeyah. I don't think I had as much sympathy as the guys, but that had to hurt. Edward was the only one of us who hadn't made a sound. Either he knew what was coming, or nothing surprised him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Diego," Itzpapalotl said, "show them what it means to be a god." There was a thread of warning in her voice, as if she were warning him to do his job. I wasn't sure why because Diego had seemed to thoroughly enjoy the ear sucking. Why wouldn't he do this?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Diego dropped to his knees, and his face was very close to the offered blood, all he had to do was reach out and take it. But he stayed kneeling, staring at the cut flesh with eyes that still blazed pale blue fire. He stayed kneeling until the cut began to heal, and finally vanish as if the flesh had absorbed it. I'd never seen a shapeshifter heal silver that well. Never.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth looked over his shoulder, one hand still around his naked penis, though it was beginning to wilt a little. "Holy mistress, what do you wish me to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sacrifice," she said, and there was enough heat in that one word to make me shiver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth put the blade point to his flesh again. It seemed harder to get a clean cut when he wasn't fully erect, but he managed. Blood spread in fine rivulets over his skin, staining his fingers with tiny hits of red.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Diego stayed kneeling, but made no move to feed. The fire faded from his eyes, the glow leeched out of the skin, leaving him still lovely, a contrast of pale skin, dark hair, and blue eyes, but he looked defeated somehow, hands limp in his lap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four women moved around behind Itzpapalotl, gliding as a unit until they stood in a half-circle behind the kneeling vampire. "You have disappointed me again, Diego," the goddess said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head and bowed it, eyes closing. "I am sorry for that, my dark goddess. I would not disappoint you for the sun and the moon itself." But his voice was tired when he said it, like it was a memorized line but his heart wasn't in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four vamps surrounding him pulled black leather bound rods from their belts, and lifted leather bags off the ends. Dozens of thin leather cords spread out from each bag like obscene flowers. Silver balls were braided in the cords so that they sparkled in the torchlight. It was a cat o' nine tails, except it had a lot more tails.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you insist on refusing this honor, Diego? Why do you make us punish you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not a lover of men, my dark goddess, and I will not do this. I am sorry that my refusal pains you, but this one thing I will not do." Again, his voice was tired, as if he'd said all of it before, many times before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was about five hundred years old, like the four women that surrounded him. Had he been turning the "honor" down for five centuries?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four women watched their goddess, not glancing even at the vampire at their feet. Itzpapalotl gave a small nod. Four arms went back, flaring the cat o' nine tails in a fan of silver and leather. They whirled it through the air like they knew what they were doing. They hit him in sequence, right to left, each whip landing a blow, then the next, the next, the next. The blows fell so close together it was like the sound of hard rain, except that this rain was smacking into flesh, and you could hear it thudding home. They whipped him until they drew blood, then they stood motionless around him, waiting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you still refuse?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, my dark goddess, I still refuse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When you raped these women long ago, did you dream of the price you would pay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, my dark goddess, I did not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't believe in our gods, did you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, my dark goddess, I did not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You thought your white Christ could save you, didn't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, my dark goddess, I did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His head hunched between his shoulders as if he were trying to draw into himself like a turtle. The metaphor was funny. The gesture was not. "Yes, my dark goddess, I was wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave another nod, and the women began to whip him in a blur that made the whips gleam silver like lightning in their hands. Blood ran in streamers down his back, but he never cried out, never asked for mercy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must have made some movement, because Edward stepped close to me, not grabbing my arm, but touching it. I met his eyes, and he gave the barest shake of his head. I wouldn't really risk our lives for a vampire I didn't know, really I wouldn't, but I didn't like it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf made a small sound. He was watching it with glowing eyes like a child at Christmas who comes down to find that he'd gotten exactly what he wanted. He'd put up the gun, his big hands clasped in front of him, clasped so hard they were mottled, and a fine tremor ran up his arms. I might not like it, but Olaf did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward, sort of nodding to the big man. Edward gave the barest of nods. He saw it, too, but he was ignoring it. I tried. I caught Bernardo's eyes. He was staring at the big man, a look very close to fear on his face. He turned and concentrated on the stairs, turning his back on everything in the room. I'd have liked to join him, but I couldn't turn away. It wasn't just macho crap, you know. If Edward could stand to watch it, then so could I. Though there was a little of that. Mostly it was if Diego could endure it, I could watch it. If I wasn't going to stop it then I had to at least watch. To do nothing to help him and to turn away would have been too much cowardice for me to swallow. I'd have choked on it. The best I could do was try to watch other things around him. The way the women's arms went up and down like machines, as if they would never tire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The five guards stood impassive, but the vamp that walked at Itzpapalotl's right side watched it with half-parted lips, eyes intent as if afraid to miss even the smallest movement. He was almost as old as the goddess herself, seven, eight hundred years, and for five hundred of those years he'd been watching this particular show, and he still enjoyed it. I knew in that moment that I never wanted to make an enemy of the creatures in this room. I never wanted to be at their mercy. Because they had none.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other two Spanish survivors had moved back to stand against the far wall, as far from the show as they could get. The one with salt and pepper hair stared at the ground as if there was something of great interest there. The starved one on his leash had curled into a fetal position, as if he were trying to disappear altogether.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The women turned Diego's back into bloody ribbons. A red pool formed at his feet. He curled his upper body over his legs until he was like a little hull of pain. Blood began to drip down his shoulders to form a second puddle in front of him. He was weaving, even that low to the ground, as if he might pass out. I hoped he passed out soon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally did take a step forward, and Edward grabbed my arm. "No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You feel pity for him," Itzpapalotl said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Diego was one of the strangers that came into our lands. He thought we were barbarians. We were things to be conquered, robbed, raped, slaughtered. Diego never saw us as people, did you, Diego?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no answer this time. He wasn't exactly unconscious but close enough that he was beyond words. "You didn't think we were people, did you, Cristobal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know who Cristobal was, but there was a high keening sound. It was the vampire on the leash. He unrolled from his tight fetal ball. The keening ended in that same awful laughter that I'd heard earlier. The laughter rose up and up until the vampire holding the leash jerked it tight, pulling him like you'd discipline a dog. I realized that the leash was a choke collar. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Answer me, Cristobal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire let up on the leash enough for the starved one to get a ragged breath. His voice, when it came, was strangely cultured, smooth and sum "No, we did not think you were people, my dark goddess." Then the ragged laughter came from those thin lips, and he huddled around himself again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They broke into our temple and raped our priestesses, our virgin priestesses, our nuns. Twelve of them raped these four priestesses. They did unspeakable, vile things to them, forced them with pain and threats of death to do whatever the men wanted them to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The women's faces never changed during the speech, as if it were about someone else. They had stopped whipping the man. They just stood there watching him bleed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I found them dying in the temple from what had been done to them. I offered them life. I offered them vengeance. I made them gods, and then we hunted down the strangers that had raped them, the ones that left them for dead. We took each of them, made them one of us, so their punishment would last forever. But my teyolloquanies were too strong for most of them. There were twelve of them once. Now only two remain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Itzpapalotl looked at me, and there was a challenge in her face, a look that demanded an answer. "Do you still feel pity for him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yes, but I understand hate, and revenge is one of my best things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you see the justice here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth, Edward's hand tightened on my arm, until it was painful. He forced me to think before I answered. I'd have been careful, but he didn't know that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He did a terrible, unforgivable thing. They should have their revenge." In my head I added, though five hundred years of torment seemed a bit much. I killed people when they deserved it, anything beyond that was up to God. I just didn't think I was up to making decisions that would last five hundred years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward eased up on my arm and started to let go of me, when she said, "So you agree with our punishment?" His hand locked back onto my arm, if anything tighter than before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glared up at him, hissing under my breath, "You're bruising me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let me go, slowly, reluctantly, but the look in his eyes was warning enough. Don't get us killed. I'd try not to. "I would never presume to question the decision of a god." Which was true. If I ever met a god, I wouldn't question their decision. The fact that I didn't believe in any god with a little "g" was beside the point. It wasn't a lie, and it sounded perfect for the situation. When you're prefabricating as fast as you can, it doesn't get better than that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, and she was suddenly young and beautiful like a sudden glimpse of the young woman she must have been once. It was almost more of a shock than the rest. I'd expected a lot of things, but not Itzpapalotl to have retained even a shred of her humanity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am very pleased," she said, and she looked it. I'd pleased the goddess, made her smile. Be still my heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She must have made some sign because the whipping continued. They beat him until the white of his spine showed through in places where the flesh had worn completely away. A human would have died long before they got that far, or even a shapeshifter, but the vampire was as alive as when they started. He had collapsed into a little ball, his forehead on the floor, arms trapped under his body, his weight resting on his legs. He was unconscious, but the body didn't fall over. It was propped up by its own weight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf was making a high-pitched hiss under his breath, fast and faster. If the circumstances had been different, I'd have said he was working up to an orgasm. If that was what he was doing, I so didn't want to know. I ignored him, or did my best to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguar stood there through it all, nude, body going limp, the cut long healed as he watched the vampire's body torn apart. He watched it with a neutral face, but occasionally when a blow was particularly vicious, or when the first hint of bone showed through, he winced, gaze sliding away, as if he didn't want to watch but was afraid to actually turn his head away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough." That one word, and the whips stopped, drooping like wilted flowers. The silver balls had all turned crimson, and blood dripped from the end of the whips in slow spatters. The women's faces had never changed, as if the faces were just masks, and what lay underneath was inhuman and held all the emotions that the masks could not show. As if the monstrousness inside was more human than the human shells they wore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four women walked in a line to a small stone basin in the far comer. They dipped each whip into the water in turn, then ran their hands over each lash almost lovingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf tried twice to speak, had to clear his throat, and finally said, "Do you use saddle soap and mink oil on the leather?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four women turned as one toward him. Then they all looked at Itzpapalotl. She answered for them. "You sound knowledgeable about such things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not as knowledgeable as they are," he said, and he sounded impressed, like a Cellist seeing Yo-Yo Ma perform for the first time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They have had centuries to perfect their craft."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do they use their craft just on the bodies of the men who hurt them?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not always," she said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can they speak?" he asked. He was watching them as if they were something precious and lovely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They have taken a vow of silence until the last of their tormentors is dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to ask. "Are they executing them periodically?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned, and the question must have shown on my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We do not execute them. We merely harm them, and if they die of their injuries, then so be it. If they survive, then they live to see another night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you're not going to give Diego any medical attention?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's hand had never let go of me during the torture as if he truly didn't trust me not to do something heroic and suicidal. His hand dug into me again, and I'd had my fill. "Let me the fuck go, now, or we are going to have a disagreement ... Ted." I wasn't feeling good about watching Diego bleed. I was feeling worse because it hadn't bothered me as much as I thought it should have. I'd have helped him if I could have, as long as it wasn't suicide He was a stranger and a vampire. I wasn't risking our lives for him, and that was that. Had there been a time when I would have risked us all, even for a strange vampire? I just didn't know anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Diego has survived far worse than this. He is the strongest of all of them. We broke all the others before they died. They did everything we asked them in the end. Except Diego, and still he fights us." She shook her head, as a dismissing it all. "But we must show you how it is to be done properly. Chualtalocal, show them how the sacrifice is to be embraced."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vamp that stood at her right hand stepped forward. He walked around the fallen Diego as if he were a pile of trash to be avoided, and left for someone else to clean up. He faced the werejaguar as Diego had faced him, but things had changed. Seth had been all pumped up from having his ears sucked when he first stripped, hard and eager to please. Now he was just naked, and his eyes kept going to the bloody mess that Diego had become as if he was wondering when his turn was coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Make your offering, my cat," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth was looking from Diego's body to the vampire in front of me. "My holy mistress, I am willing, you know I am, but I ... I seem to be," he swallowed hard enough that I heard it even over the still faint ringing in my ears "I seem to be ... "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Make your sacrifice, Seth, or suffer my wrath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The four sisters weird had hung their cat o' nine tails on small hooks in the wall, all in a row like a sadomasochistic version of the seven dwarves with their identical possessions. They glided back towards us all, like sharks scenting blood in the water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth seemed to know they were there. He actually grabbed himself and started trying to get some attention going, but his eyes were flicking wildly through the room as if looking for an escape. He was making the effort, but nothing was happening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward wasn't holding onto my arm anymore, maybe that was it, or maybe I'd just had enough for one night. "You've scared him shitless. It's hard to get it up when you're scared."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She and Chualtalocal looked at me, and their black eyes held nearly identical expressions, not that I chanced looking into the eyes long, but it was still there, disdain. How dare I interfere?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward made as if to grab me again. I held up a hand to him. "Don't touch me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let his hand fall back, but his eyes were not happy with me. Fine, I wasn't happy with anyone right now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And are you offering to help him overcome his fear?" Itzpapalotl asked. The look on her face said plainly that she didn't expect me to offer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't know who looked the most surprised, but I think it was Edward, though Bernardo was a close second from the doorway. Olaf just watched me like a fox watching a rabbit through the fence, who's just spotted a hole big enough to crawl through. I ignored him. It was probably best to always ignore Olaf, if possible. Ignore him or kill him. That was my vote.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held my hand out to the werejaguar. He hesitated, glancing from the vamp in front of him, to me, to the goddess behind him. I wiggled my fingers at him. "Come on, Seth. We don't have all night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go with her, do as she says, as long as you offer fitting sacrifice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took my hand, tentatively, and though he was a six foot plus, naked, man, there was something very little boyish on his face. Maybe it was the near panic in his baby blues. He was scared, scared that he was going to end up on the floor, meat for the four sisters weird. I didn't blame him for worrying. I think if I hadn't stepped in, that was exactly what was about to happen. But I'd had all the torture I could handle for one night. It wasn't moral outrage. It was just plain outrage. I wanted to ask my questions and get the hell out of here. Vampires can live a very long time, theoretically forever, which means their idea of getting down to business can be damn leisurely. The vamps might have had eternity. I didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I led Seth the werejaguar off to the other side of the room. The easiest thing would have been to work him by hand, but I was like so not doing that. The option I was voting for wasn't that simple, but it was something I was willing to do. I was going to call that part of me that was Richard's mark. Not the connection to him -- that was safely walled away. I'd packed it so tight, I wasn't even sure I could open to the mark even on purpose. But I held a part of it inside me. The same part that had recognized Cesar, the same part that let me deal with the wereleopards back home. That electric rush of energy was a turn on to wereanimals. I'd discovered it accidentally. Now I was going to try and do it on purpose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it wasn't like a switch. Maybe someday it would be, but right now it took some preparation to get it going. It was maddening that something that came out at odd moments when I didn't want it, would refuse to come out when I did, but psychic shit is like that, unpredictable. It's one of the reasons it's so hard to study in laboratory conditions. X does not always equal Y.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put my hands on my hips and looked at him, from head to foot, and didn't know where to start. My life would be both easier and harder if I was into casual sex, but for better or worse, it wasn't my cup of tea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you undo your hair?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" He sounded suspicious, and I didn't blame him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I could have let her turn you over to her pet torturers, but I didn't. So work with me here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His hands went to the knot at the back of his head. He pulled long pins out of his hair, and finally a comb that was made of bone. The hair uncurled slowly as if it were stretching from some long sleep, sliding down his back in a heavy mass. I walked behind him and he started to turn and watch me. I touched his shoulder, made him face front. "I'm not going to hurt you, Seth. I'm probably the only person in this room that won't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kept his face front, but there was a tension to his shoulder, his back that said he didn't like it. I didn't care. We needed to do this fast. Call it hunch but the goddess didn't strike me as patient.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I unrolled his hair, helping it slide down his back. The colors were extraordinary, bright yellow, rich gold, a pale almost white, all of it streaked together, each color blending into the next the way sea water blends one color into the next, distinct but making a whole. I ran my hands through the thick warmth of his hair until it lay spread across his back, an inch past his waist. I grabbed two handfuls of hair and pressed it to my cheek. There was the close smell of sweat and the scent of the fur he'd worn. He had a cologne, faint on his skin, something so sweet, it smelled like candy. I spread the hair apart until I could see the skin of his back, and laid my face against the warmth of him. He smelled warm, as if you could sink your teeth into him like something fresh from the oven. I walked around him, hands trailing lightly over his skin, touching mostly the fall of that sun-streaked hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I came to stand in front of him, looked up into those wide, still half-afraid eyes, but a glance down his body showed that I'd made some progress, not enough, but some.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't look at the vampires, or Edward, or anybody. I concentrated just on the man in front of me. To look elsewhere was to lose ground. I took his hand, and that pale golden tan looked darker against the paleness of my skin, I lowered my face over his hand as if I'd kiss it, but I brushed my lips barely against his skin, moving up his arm, breathing in the scent of his skin. I opened my mouth, laying my breath like a warm touch just above the skin of his arm. It raised the pale hairs on his arm in a march of goosebumps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flexed the hand I was holding, rolling me into his body with my back resting against the front of him. His other arm wrapped around from the other side, enfolding me in the warmth of his body. He laid his face on the top of my head, and a spill of his hair fell across me like a warm sweet scented curtain. The firelight danced through the gold of his hair, turning it into an amber cage, carved of light. He kissed the top of my head, then laid a gentle kiss against my temple, the top of my cheekbone, my cheek. He was so tall that in bending over he enveloped me in his body, covering me in the feel of him. The candy smell of his cologne breathed along his skin, and my body constricted with it. The smell was the key. The power spilled upward in a warm liquid rush that brought me to tiptoe, made me luxuriate against his body like a cat with catnip, wanting to roll my body in the scent. My body writhed against his as the power rode in almost painful waves, so warm, it was almost hot, rising off my body like invisible steam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One hand stayed around my waist, the other touched my chin, turning my face back to meet his mouth. He kissed me, and for a second I stiffened, but I'd learned that if you called the power, you didn't fight it. You embraced it. If you fought it, then you had less control. I kissed him back. I expected the power to push out my mouth into his like it had with Cesar, but it didn't. The kiss was nice, but it was just the feel of his lips on mine. His warmth pushed against mine, his power like a trembling shadow spilling along mine. We stood wrapped in a curtain of his hair, a circle of arms, and a vibrating blanket of that skin-dancing power that was all shapeshifter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shuddered against me, arms hugging me close. I could tell he was ready for sacrifice without looking, but I had to glance down anyway. He was ready. I pulled free of him, gently. "You're ready to go back to the vamps, Seth. I think you're ready to make a sacrifice." I made myself look him in the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bent and kissed my forehead, gently. "Thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're welcome."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We walked back to the vamps hand in hand. But it wasn't the vampires that made me uncomfortable as we crossed the room. It was the humans, Bernardo looked like he was reconsidering my status as untouchable Madonna. Olaf had an almost hungry look on his face. It was closer to the way werewolves looked at you on the night of full moon than the way a man looks at a woman. Edward had a slight frown between his eyes, which for him meant he was bothered by something. The vampires looked about like I'd expected. Itzpapalotl looked serious, as if she hadn't known I could call the power up on purpose. It's why they'd apologized for dragging me up on stage earlier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave Seth over to Chualtalocal like a father handing the bride to the groom. Then I moved back to stand by Edward. He looked at me, as if he was the one trying to read me for a change, and failing. It was almost worth it, if I could confuse Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you enjoy yourself, my cat?" the goddess asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, holy mistress, I did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you ready to make sacrifice?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, holy mistress."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then do so." She looked past him to me, as if she didn't like what she saw. Something about what I'd done with Seth had disturbed her. Had she expected me to take him off in the corner and just do him by hand like a fluffer in a porno movie? Had the fact that I'd used power as well as mild sex disturbed her? Or had she seen something I hadn't, or understood something I did not? No way of knowing short of asking, and admitting that kind of ignorance to master vamps is a good way to get killed. So no questions about magic, just eventually, hopefully about the case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth picked up the small silver blade again. He cradled his flesh in his hand and set the tip of the blade against himself. I caught Bernardo turning back towards the door. The blade tip bit into flesh, and I looked away. I think we all did, except for Olaf. It might have startled him the first time, but he was over the shock. Blood was being spilled, flesh being cut. Olaf couldn't miss that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He watched the cutting, but then I caught him turning away out of the corner of my eye, and I had to look. I had to see what was bad enough for Olaf not to be able to stomach it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire had gone to his knees. I guess maybe I'd expected him to just lick the blood off, but he wasn't. He was sucking at it the way that Diego had sucked at Seth's ears, except this wasn't an ear. The vampire had covered almost every inch of Seth with its mouth. Seth's eyes were closed, and there was a look of concentration on his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked away again and found myself meeting the dead eyes of the four fallen nuns. Those empty, angry faces were almost harder to stare at than a vampire going down on someone. I literally turned my back on all of them and found that Olaf had done the same thing. He was hugging himself and staring at nothing. His discomfort rose off of him in almost visible waves. Even with his back turned, the sounds carried. I wished for the ringing in my cars to get worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Soft, sucking sounds, wet sounds, the sound of flesh in flesh, and the sharp intake of breath that was probably Seth. His breath came in three fast pants, and he spoke, "Please, holy mistress, I am not sure of my control tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know the punishment," she said. "Surely, that is incentive enough to hold yourself in check."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced back then and found that Seth was staring back over his shoulder at the four women in the corner. When he turned back, he looked scared. The vampire was still feeding, sucking, throat swallowing. Surely, the wound had healed by now, unless they'd made a second wound while I was being embarrassed and not looking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth dug his fingernails into the palms of his hands. His hands paled with the force of squeezing nails into his own flesh. He threw his head back suddenly, breath coming fast, faster, fastest. The vampire pulled off of him, leaving him hard and still intact. "The wound has closed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chualtalocal stood and went back to his mistress. The moment there was room, Seth collapsed to his knees, opening his hands slowly as if they hurt There were bloody half-moons where his nails had bitten into his palms. But it had worked. Any distraction to keep him out of the clutches of the goddess's pet freaks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I offer you hospitality, to you and your friends. You may have Seth if you like and finish him as his body seems to so badly need."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I suddenly knew what she meant by hospitality. Somehow I didn't think that was Aztec culture, though if I remembered correctly, hadn't some of the Aztecs sent Cortez and his men women along with food and gold? Maybe this wasn't any different. But I didn't want to mess with it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dawn is coming. I can feel it pressing against the darkness like a weight about to tear the night apart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned her head to one side and seemed to think, or maybe she was sensing the night, the air, something. "Yes," she said, "I feel it, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then if it isn't too large an insult, can we skip the hospitality for tonight and get to the murders?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only if you give me your word that you will return and taste our hospitality before you go back to Saint Louis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Edward. He shrugged. I guess it was up to me. What else was new when it came to monster? "I don't agree to having sex with your people, but I'll agree to a return visit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You seemed to like Seth. I would offer you Cesar, who your power seemed to like even more, but he does not make sacrifice, nor does he act as hospitality. It is his price for letting us come so near killing him twice a month."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean because he lets you nearly tear his heart out twice a month, he doesn't have to make sacrifice or all the other stuff?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is what I mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It made me think better of ol' Cesar. I'd seen his show, and now I'd seen some of the behind the scenes stuff, and I had to say that it was a close call which was worse. Letting someone cut your chest open and touch your still beating heart, or letting vamps suck blood off of tender body parts and be offered for sex to strangers. No, come to think of it, I'd have rather had my chest cut open, as long as I knew I'd heal completely every time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not that Seth isn't lovely to look at. I'm sure it would be a pleasure to be with him, but I don't do casual sex. Thanks for thinking of me though. I know the police spoke with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They did. I do not think they learned anything of value from me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they didn't ask the right questions," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what are the right questions?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was about to do something that the police wouldn't like at all. I was about to tell the monsters, someone they had suspected at one point of being the murderer, details of the crime. But she needed specific details or how was she to recognize the marks of some Aztec bogeyman? I knew how the cops had done it. They'd been so general, it was almost useless to show up. I understood why they did it that way. Once I opened my mouth and let out details to Itzpapalotl, then she was contaminated. They'd never be able to slip her up in an interrogation, because she got the secret details from me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What I knew and the police couldn't was that they'd never interrogate the truth out of her. She was the kind of vamp that could sit in a dark room and watch the colors on the inside of her own eyeballs and be content. The only thing they could threaten her with was the death penalty, and if she was behind the murders, it was already a death penalty. One of the downfalls to a swift and certain punishment was that it took a lot of the give and play out of an interrogation. Once someone knows they are going to be executed, you can't bargain with them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we clear the room out a little?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we have fewer of your people in here? I'm going to share confidential police information with you, and I don't want it to get out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever you say in this room remains in this room. No one here will talk of it to anyone else. I can promise you this." She was utterly sure of herself, arrogant. But why not? All of her people were terrified of her. If what happened to Diego was commonplace, then think what the exotic stuff must be. If she dictated that the secrets were safe, they were safe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stepped close to me. He lowered his voice though he didn't try and whisper. "Are you sure about this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure, Edward. She can't help if she doesn't have enough information." We looked at each other for a few seconds, then he gave a small nod. I turned luck to the waiting vampire. "Okay," I said, and I told her about the survivors, and the dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't know what I expected, maybe for her to be titillated, or to go, aha, and recognize the monster responsible. What I got was serious attention, good questions at the right places, and a glimpse at a very intelligent mind behind all the games. If she wasn't a delusional, sadistic, megalomaniac, would-be goddess, she might have been likable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The skins of men are valuable to Xipe Totec and Tlazolteotl. The priests would flay the sacrifice and wear the skin. The heart had many uses for the gods. Even the flesh was used, at least in part. Sometimes, the insides of a sacrifice would have some strange thing inside it, and be an omen. Then the other organs might be kept for a time and studied, but it was rare."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you think why they would cut out the tongues?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To keep them from speaking the secrets they have seen." She said it, like of course that was the reason. It made sense ritually, I guess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why cut off the eyelids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So they can never not see the truth, even though they cannot speak it. I do not know if this is why they have done these awful things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why would someone remove the outward secondary sex characteristics?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not understand," she said, and she was holding the cloak close about her, as if she were cold. We'd been talking long enough, I had to remind myself not to look directly in her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The genitalia on the men, the breasts on the women, were removed." She shuddered, and I knew something I hadn't before. Itzpapalotl, the goddess of the obsidian blade, was frightened. "It sounds like some of the things the Spanish did to our people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But the flaying and taking the organs, that's more Aztec, than European "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "Yes, but our sacrifices were messengers to the gods. We caused pain only for sacred purposes, not for cruelty or a whim. All blood was holy. If you died at the hand of a priest, you died knowing it served a greater purpose. Literally, your death helped the rain to fall, the maize to grow, the sun to rise in the sky. I do not know of any god that would flay people and leave them alive. Death is necessary for the messenger to reach the gods, Death is part of the worship of the deity. The Spaniards taught us to kill for the sake of killing, not as a sacred trust, but just for slaughter." She stared past me at the four women that waited patiently for her to notice them, for her to give them a purpose. "We have learned the lesson well, but I would rather have stayed in a world where it was not true." I saw in her face that she had some clue to what she'd lost, to what her vampires had lost when she decided they would become as cruel as their enemies. "The Spaniards killed so many of our people along the road to Acachinanco that they tied white handkerchiefs over their noses because of the stench of rotting bodies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at me then, and the hatred in those eyes burned along my skin. After five hundred years, she still carried a grudge. You had to admire someone who could hold on to hate like that. I thought I knew how to hold a grudge, but looking into her face, I realized I was wrong. There was room in me for forgiveness. In Itzpapalotl's face there was room for only one thing, hatred, She'd been angry about the same thing for over five hundred years. She'd been punishing people for the same crimes for five hundred years. It was impressive in a psychotic sort of way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hadn't learned much more about the murders than when I'd stepped through the doors. I'd mostly learned negatives. A genuine Aztec didn't recognize the murders as the work of any god or cult associated with the Aztec pantheon. It was good to know, something to cross off the list. Police work is mostly negatives. Finding out what you don't know, so you can decide what you do. I didn't know anything positive about the murders, but I knew one thing for absolute certain as I listened to the outrage in her voice about atrocities older than the entire country we were sitting in. I never wanted this woman mad at me. I'd told people that I'd chase them into hell to have my vengeance, but I probably didn't mean it. Itzpapalotl would mean every word.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_29" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36475946" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36475948" class="calibre7"></a>27 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS STILL DARK as Edward drove us homeward. Still night, true dark, the vampires still roamed, but that soft edge in the air let you know the light is coming. If we hurried, we'd make it into bed before true dawn. If we dawdled, we'd get to see the sun come up. None of us seemed to be dawdling. We sat in the car in a silence that no one seemed willing to break.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We left the club behind and drove out into the hills beyond towards Santa Fe. Stars spread like a blanket of cold fire across the soft black silk of the sky. The sky had that larger than life, empty quality it gets over large bodies of water or in the desert.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf's voice came out of the darkness, low and strangely intimate the way voices can be in a car at night. "If we'd accepted their hospitality, do you think I could have had the vampire they whipped?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised an eyebrow. "Define have?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have, to do with as I liked."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What would you have done with him if they had?" Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't want to know, and I don't want to hear it," Edward said. He sounded tired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you liked women, Olaf," Bernardo said it. I didn't say it, honest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For sex I like women, but so much blood. It shouldn't have gone to waste." He sounded wistful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned in my seat and tried to see his face in the dark. "So it's not just women who have to be careful around you, is that it? Does it just have to bleed to be attractive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Leave him alone, Anita. About this, leave him the fuck alone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned to look at Edward. He rarely cussed, and he rarely sounded as tired and almost overwhelmed as he did now. "Okay, I mean, sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward glanced in the rearview mirror. There wasn't a car in either direction for miles. I think he was looking at Olaf. He stared into the mirror a long time. I think they had some major eye contact going.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He finally blinked and went back to staring at the road, but he didn't seem happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What aren't you telling me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Us," Bernardo said. "What isn't he telling us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, what aren't you telling us?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not my secret to tell," Edward said, and that was all he'd say. He and Olaf had a secret, and they weren't willing to share.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We finished the rest of the drive in silence. The sky was still black, but it was a paler black, the stars dim in it. Dawn was tremblingly close when we went into the house. I was so tired, my eyes burned. But Edward took me by the arm and led me down the small hallway away from the bedrooms. He kept his voice low. "Be very careful of Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's big and bad. I get it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dropped his hand from my arm, shaking his head. "I don't think you do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I know he's a convicted rapist. I saw the way he looked at Professor Dallas tonight, and I saw his reaction to the blood and torture. I don't know what you're not telling me, but I know that Olaf would hurt me if he could I know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're afraid of him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took a breath. "Yeah, I'm afraid of him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," Edward said. He hesitated then said, "You fit his vic profile."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His favorite victims are petite women, usually Caucasian, but always with long dark hair. I told you I would never have brought him in on this case if I'd known you were coming down, too. It isn't just because you're a woman. You're his physical ideal for a victim."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him for a few seconds, mouth opened, then closed it, and tried to think what to say. "Thanks for telling me, Edward. Shit. You should have told me this up front."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was hoping he could hold his act together, but I saw him tonight, too. I'm worried that he'll snap. I just don't want you to be the one in the way when it happens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Send him back to wherever he came from, Edward. We don't need him if he adds to the problem."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No, he's got a specialty that's perfect for this case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that specialty would be?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave that small smile. "Go to bed, Anita. It's already dawn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "almost, but not quite."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He studied my face. "You can really feel the sunrise without looking?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and it was as if he were trying to read me now. For the first time I felt that maybe, just maybe, Edward was as puzzled by me as I was by him, sometimes. He escorted me to my room and left me at the door like an overprotective date.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was glad I'd prepared the room for safety before I left. If someone came through the window, they'd knock the dolls over or step on the mirror with its antlers. The door would have a chair and the suitcase in front of it. The room was as safe as it was going to get. I undressed, putting the guns and knives on the bed until I could decide exactly what was staying where for overnight. A man's extra large T-shirt that hung past my knees came out of the overnight bag. I'd started keeping one change of clothes, nightclothes, and toiletries in the overnight bag ever since the airline lost my luggage on a business trip. The last thing I pulled out of the overnight bag was my toy penguin Sigmund. I used to only sleep with Sigmund every so often, but lately, he'd been my constant companion under the sheets. A girl needs something to cuddle with at night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Browning Hi-Power was my other constant companion. At home it stayed in a holster I'd rigged to my headboard. Here I put it under my pillow, making very sure the safety was on. It always made me slightly nervous to put a loaded gun under my pillow. Seemed less than safe, but not nearly as unsafe as being unarmed if Olaf came through the door. I had brought four knives with me. One of them went between the mattresses. I put the Firestar back into the suitcase. I wanted something bigger than a handgun. I had a sawed-off shotgun and a mini-Uzi. Normally, I'd have brought more big guns, but I knew Edward would have more and better, and he would share. I finally decided on the mini-Uzi with a modified clip that held thirty rounds with enough humph to cut a vampire in half. It was a gift from Edward so the ammo was probably illegal, but then so was the gun. I'd been almost embarrassed about carrying it at first, but one night last August I used it for real. I'd pointed it at a vampire, pulled the trigger, and cut him in half. It had looked like his body was torn in half by some giant hand. His upper body had fallen slowly to one side. His lower body collapsed to its knees. I still had the vision of it like a slow motion image. There was no horror or regret. It was just amemory. The vampire had come with a hundred of his friends to kill us. I'd tried to kill one of them as messily as possible to get the rest to leave us alone. It hadn't worked, but that was only because the vampires were more afraid of their Master of the City than of me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe the Uzi was overkill for a human being, but if by some chance I emptied the Browning into Olaf's chest and he didn't go down, I wanted to make sure he didn't reach me. I'd cut him in half and see if the pieces could crawl.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_30" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36476135" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36476137" class="calibre7"></a>28 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS AFTER FIVE when I finally closed my eyes. Sleep sucked me under like a roll of black water, dragging me deep, and instantly into a dream. I stood in a dark place. There were small stunted trees everywhere, but they were dead. All the trees were dead. I could feel it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something crashed over to my right, something large moving through the trees, and a sense of dread rode before it like a wind. I ran, hands up to protect my face from the dry branches. I tripped over a root and went sprawling. There was a sharp pain in my arm. It was bleeding. Blood poured down it, but I couldn't find a wound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing was getting closer. I could hear tree trunks snapping with sharp explosions. It was coming. It was coming for me. I ran, and ran, and ran, and the dead trees stretched out forever and there was no escape.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A typical chase dream, I thought, and the moment I thought it, I realized it was a dream, and the dream changed, faded into another dream. Richard standing in nothing but a sheet, one tanned muscled arm reaching out to me. His brown hair falling in a froth of waves around his face. I reached for him, and as my fingertips brushed his, a smile curving his lips, the dream shattered, and I woke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I woke, blinking into a patch of sunlight that spilled across the bed. But it hadn't been the light that had woken me. There was a light tapping on my door. A man's voice. "Edward says get up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took me a moment to realize it was Bernardo's voice. It didn't take Freud to analyze the dream at the end with Richard in a sheet. I was going to have to be careful around Bernardo. Embarrassing, but true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat up in bed, yelling through the door, "What time is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ten."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, I'm coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I listened but didn't hear him walk away. Either the door was more solid than it looked, or Bernardo was quiet. If it had just been Edward, I'd have thrown on a pair of jeans under the over-sized T-shirt, and had some coffee. But there was company in the house and it was all male. I managed to get into the bathroom and dress without meeting anyone in the hallway. I was wearing dark blue jeans, a navy blue polo shirt, white jogging socks, and in black Nikes. Normally, I'd left the guns off until I went out into the big bad world, but at Edward's house the big bad world was staying in the next room so I put the Firestar 9 mm in an inner pants holster, set for a right-handed cross draw. Brushed, cleaned, and armed, I wandered toward the smell of bacon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kitchen was small and narrow and white. But all the appliances were black, and the starkness of the contrast was almost too much first thing in the morning. There was another bouquet of wild flowers in the middle of a small white wooden table. Donna had struck again, but truthfully I agreed with her. The kitchen needed something to soften it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two men sitting at the table did nothing to humanize the room. Olaf had shaved so that the only hair left were the black lines of his eyebrows. He wore a black tank top, black dress slacks. Couldn't see the shoes, but I was betting on a monochrome look. He was also wearing a black shoulder rig with a big automatic of some kind. I didn't recognize the brand. A black-hilted knife was in a holster under his left arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shoulder holsters chaff when you wear them with tank tops, but hey, it wasn't my problem.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo wore a white short-sleeved T-shirt and black jeans. He'd pulled the top layer of his hair back on either side with a large multi-colored barrette, There was still plenty of hair to fall down past his shoulders, stark and black against the pure whiteness of his shirt. He was wearing a ten mil Beretta just in back of his right hip. I couldn't see a knife on him, but I was betting it was there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was at the stove, emptying a pan of scrambled eggs onto two plates, He was also wearing black jeans with matching cowboy boots, and a white shirt that was a twin of the one he'd worn yesterday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, guys, do I have to go back to my room and change?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They all looked at me, even Olaf. "What you're wearing is fine," Edward said. He carried the plates to the table and put one in front of each of the empty chairs. There was a plate of bacon in the center of the table beside the flowers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I don't match," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and Bernardo smiled. Olaf didn't. Big surprise. "You guys look like you're in uniform," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I guess we do," Edward said. He sat down in one of the empty chairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat in the other one. "You should have told me there was a dress code."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We didn't do it on purpose," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Which is what makes it funny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not changing clothes," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one's asking you to," I said. "I was making an observation." My eggs had bits of green and red things in them. "What's in the eggs?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Green peppers, red chilies, and diced ham," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, Edward, you shouldn't have." I liked my scrambled eggs the way God intended them, plain. I pushed the eggs around with my fork, and reached for the bacon. Half the plate was barely cooked, the other half done to a crisp. I went for the crisp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bacon on Olaf's plate was the crispy kind, too. Oh, well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said grace over the food. Edward kept eating, but the others hesitated, uncomfortable with their mouths full. It's always fun to say grace at a table with people who don't. That uncomfortable silence. The panic while they wonder whether to keep chewing or to stop. I finished praying and took a bite of bacon. Yum. "What's the game plan for today?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You haven't finished looking at the files," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo groaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it is a waste of time," Olaf said. "We have gone over the files. I do not believe that she will find anything new."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's already done that," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf looked at him, a piece of bacon half way to his mouth. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward told them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is nothing," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's more than you came up with," Edward said, quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I am such a burden on this job, maybe I should leave," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you can't work with Anita, maybe you should."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf stared at him. "You would rather have her as backup instead of me?" He sounded astonished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could break her in half over my knee," Olaf said. The astonishment was turning to anger. I suspected that most emotions turned into anger for Olaf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe," Edward said, "but I doubt she'd give you the chance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held up my hand. "Don't make this a competition, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf turned to me, slowly. He spoke very slowly, very clearly. "I do not compete with women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Afraid you can't measure up?" I asked. The moment I said it, I wished I hadn't. The momentary satisfaction wasn't worth the look on his face as he rose from his chair. I leaned into the table and drew the Firestar, pointing it in his general direction under the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf stood, looming over me, like a muscular tree. "Edward has spent the morning talking to me about you. Trying to convince me that you are worth listening to." He shook his head. "You are a witch and I am not. The thing we hunt may be magical and we need your expertise. Maybe this is all true, but I will not be insulted by you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right," I said, "I'm sorry. It was a cheap shot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked at me. "You are apologizing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, on the rare, rare occasions when I'm wrong, I can apologize."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was staring at me across the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just shook his head. "Nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf's hatred of women is sort of a handicap, and I try not to make fun of people with handicaps."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward closed his eyes and shook his head. "You just couldn't leave it alone, could you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not a cripple."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you hate anyone or anything with an unreasoning, uncompromising hatred, then you are blind where that hatred is concerned. The police kicked me out of a crime scene yesterday because the cop in charge is a right-winger squeaky-clean Christian, and he considers me devil spawn. So he'd rather more people get killed and mutilated than have me help him solve the case. He hates me more than he wants to catch this monster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf was still standing, but some of the tension had drained way. He seemed to actually be listening to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you hate women more than you want to catch this monster?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and for once his eyes weren't angry. They were thoughtful. "Edward called me because I am the best. I have never walked away from a job until the quarry was dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if it takes my preternatural expertise to help kill the monster, can you deal with that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't like it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that, but that's not what I asked. Can you handle my expertise helping you kill the monster? Can you take my help if it is the best thing for the job?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," he said. At least he was being honest, even reasonable. It was a start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The question, Olaf, is which do you love more: the kill or your hatred of women?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could feel Edward's and Bernardo's stillness. The room held its collective breath waiting for the answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would rather kill than do anything else," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Great, and thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "If I take your help, it does not mean that I consider you my equal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me either," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone kicked me under the table. I think it was Edward. But Olaf and I nodded at each other, not exactly smiling, but I think we had a truce. If he could control his hatred, and I could control my smart-ass impulses, the truce might last long enough for us to solve the case. I managed to reholster the Firestar without him noticing, which made me think less of him. Edward had noticed, and I think, so had Bernardo. What was Olaf's specialty? What good was he if he didn't know where the guns were?</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_31" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36476462" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36476464" class="calibre7"></a>29 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">AFTER BREAKFAST WE HEADED back into the dining room. Bernardo had volunteered to do the dishes. I think he was looking for any excuse to get out of the paperwork. Though I was beginning to wonder if Bernardo had been as badly spooked by the mutilations as Edward had been. Even the monsters were afraid of this one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Last night I'd been ready to look at the forensic reports next, but in the clear light of day I could admit that it was cowardice. Reading about it was not as bad as seeing it. I so did not want to look at the photos. I was afraid to see them, and the moment I admitted that to myself, I moved them to the top of the list.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward suggested we stick all the pictures on the walls of the dining room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And put pin holes in your nice clean walls," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be barbaric," Edward said. "We'll use sticky putty." He held up a small packet of the pliable yellow rectangles. He peeled off some and handed it to Olaf and me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I squeezed the stuff between my fingers, rolling it into a ball. It made me smile. "I haven't seen this stuff since elementary school."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three of us spent the next hour putting the pictures up on the wall. Just handling the sticky putty made me remember fourth grade and helping Miss Cooper hang Christmas decorations on the walls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We'd hung cheerful Santas, fat candy canes, and bright balls. Now I was hanging vivisected bodies, close-ups of skinless faces, shots of rooms full of body parts. By the time we had one wall covered I was mildly depressed. Finally, the pictures took up almost all the empty white wall space.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood in the center of the room and looked at it all. "Sweet Jesus."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too harsh for you?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Back off, Olaf," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to say something else but Edward said, "Olaf." It was amazing how much menace he could put into one ordinary word.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf thought about it for a second or two, but in the end he let it go. Either Olaf was getting smarter or he was afraid of Edward, too. Guess which way I was voting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We'd grouped the photos by crime scene in large clusters. This was my first glimpse of the bodies that had been torn apart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans had described the bodies being cut by a blade of unknown origin, then disjointed by hand. But that had been a very clean description of what had actually been done.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At first, all my eyes could see was blood and pieces. Even knowing what I was looking at, my mind refused to see it at first. It was like looking at one of those 3-D pictures where at first it's just colors and dots, then suddenly <em class="calibre9">you </em>see it. Once you see it, you can't unsee it. My mind was trying to protect me from what I was looking at by just simply not allowing me to make sense of it. My mind was protecting me, and it only does that when it's bad, really really bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I had just walked out now before my eyes made sense of it, I might escape the full horror of it all. I could turn on my heel and march out of here. I could just refuse to take one more terror into my brain. Probably a good idea for my own sanity, but it wouldn't help the next family that this thing got hold of. It wouldn't stop the mutilations, the deaths. So I stood there and made myself stare up at the first picture, waiting to see what was really there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blood was brighter than movie blood, a cherry red. They'd gotten to this scene before the blood had started to dry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke without turning around. "How did the police find the bodies so quickly in this house? The blood is still fresh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward answered, "The husband's parents were supposed to meet them for an early breakfast, before work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to look away from the picture, at the floor. "You mean his parents found him like this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It gets worse," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How could it possibly get worse?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The wife told her best friend she was pregnant. The breakfast meeting was to tell the husband's parents they were about to be grandparents for the first time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rug swam in my vision, like looking at it through water. I reached back for a chair and eased my way into it. I put my head between my knees and breathed very carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You all right?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded without raising up. I waited for Olaf to make a sarcastic remark, but he didn't. Either Edward had warned him off or he thought it was horrible, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I was sure I wasn't going to throw up or faint, I spoke with my head still between my knees. "When did the parents arrive at the house? What time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard paper rustle. "Six-thirty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rested my cheek against my knee. It felt good. "When did the sun come up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Find out," I said. Gee, the rug on the floor was kind of pretty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised up slowly, still practicing nice even breaths. The room did not swim. Good. "The grandparents-to-be arrived at six-thirty. It takes what, ten minutes, less, for them to recover enough to call the cops. Then uniforms arrive on the scene first. It could take thirty minutes or an hour, more, for a crime scene photographer to arrive, and yet the blood is still fresh. It hasn't dulled yet, let alone started to brown."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The parents nearly walked in on it," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What difference does that make?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If dawn was close to six-thirty, then the critter can be out in daylight, or it went to hole close to the murder scene. If it wasn't close to dawn, then it may be limited to darkness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was smiling down at me like a proud parent. "Even with your head between your knees, you're still thinking about the job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But what does it gain us," Olaf said, "if the creature is limited to darkness or daylight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him. He was looming over me again, but I kept sitting down. Wouldn't look very macho if I stood up and fell down. "If it's limited to darkness, then it may help us figure out what kind of critter it is. There really aren't that many preternatural creatures that are limited exclusively to darkness. It would help narrow the list."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if it holed up near the first murder scene," Edward said, "we might find some traces."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The police tramped over that area within an inch of its life," Olaf said. "Are you saying you can find something that they can't?" His arrogance was showing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With the first murder, especially, the police were looking for a human perpetrator. If you're looking for a human being, you look for different things than if it's a monster." I smiled. "Besides, if we didn't all think we could find things that the police couldn't, we wouldn't be here. Edward wouldn't have called us in, and the police wouldn't have shared the files with him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf frowned. "I have never seen you smile like this, Edward, unless you are pretending to be Ted. You took like a proud teacher whose pupil is doing well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More like Frankenstein with his monster," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward thought about it for a second, then nodded and grinned, pleased with himself. "I like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf frowned at both of us. "You did not create her, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "but he helped make me the woman I am today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and I looked at each other, and the smiles faded from both our faces, leaving us solemn. "Am I supposed to apologize for that?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Do you feel like apologizing for it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then don't. I'm alive, Edward, and I'm here." I stood and didn't sway at all. Life was good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's find out if any of the killings took place after daylight. When I've looked at all this shit, let's go see some murder scenes." I looked at Edward. "If that's all right with you. You are the boss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small nod. "That's fine, but to keep Ted working with the Santa Fe PD, we'll need to include them at the murder sites."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said, "police don't like civvies mucking up their murder scenes, makes them testy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides, you're already persona non grata in Albuquerque," Edward said. "We've got to keep some of the cops willing to talk to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that's really bugging me," I said. "I'm barred from the freshest crime scenes, the newest evidence. I don't need another handicap on a case like this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know what it is either, do you?" Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, and sighed. "Not a damn clue." Bless his chauvinistic heart, but Olaf didn't say, I told you so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went back to staring at the pictures, and suddenly I could see it. I let out a breath, and said, softly, "Wow." The room seemed hot. Dammit, I was not going to have to sit down again. I put my fingertips on either side of the wall steadying myself, but it must have looked like I was trying for a closer look. Trust me, I was as close as I ever wanted to get. I finally had to close my eyes for just a few seconds. When I opened them, I was okay or as okay as I was likely to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Body parts scattered like flower petals, stirred into a red mess. My eye flicked from one blood-covered lump to another. I was almost sure that was a forearm, and the ball of a knee joint showed whitely amid all the red. I'd never seen so many pieces before. I'd seen bodies torn apart before, but that had been for food or punishment. But there was a terrible completeness to this ... destruction. I moved on to a shot of the same image but from a slightly different angle. I tried to put the body together in my head, but kept coming up short on parts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally turned around. "There's no head and no hands." I pointed at small lumps in the blood. "Unless those are fingers. Was the body completely disjointed even down to the finger bones?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "Every victim has been almost completely dismembered down to the joints."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" I asked. I looked at Edward. "Where's the head?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They found it down the hill behind the house. The brain was missing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about the heart?" I asked. "I mean there's the spine, almost intact, but I don't see any viscera. Where are all the internal organs?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They didn't find them," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned back, half-sitting on the table. "Why take the internal organs? Did they eat them? Is it part of some magical ritual? Or is it just part of the ritual of the killing itself, a souvenir?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are a lot of organs in the body," Olaf said. "You put them all in one container and they can be heavy, bulky. They also rot very quickly unless you put them in some form of preservative."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, but he wasn't looking at me. He was looking at the pictures. He hadn't given a lot of detail, but something in the way he said it made him sound like he knew what he was talking about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And how do you know how heavy the internal organs of a human body can be?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He could have worked in a morgue," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "But he didn't, did you, Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said, and now he was looking at me. His eyes had been turned into two dark caves by the deep set of his face and a trick of light, or would that be darkness. He stared down at me, and without seeing his eyes I could feel the intensity of that stare, as if I were being studied, measured, dissected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept my gaze on Olaf, but asked, "What is his specialty, Edward? Why did you call him in on this particular case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The only person I've ever seen do anything close to this, is him," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him, and his face was calm. I turned back to Olaf. "I was told you went to jail for rape, not murder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked right at me and said, "The police arrived too soon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cheerful voice called out from the front of the house. "Ted, it's us." It was Donna, and the "us" could only mean the kids.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward left at a goodly walk, trying to head her off. I think Olaf and I might have still been staring at each other when she walked in on us, but Bernardo came in, and said, "We're supposed to hide the pictures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the candelabra off the table and said, "Put the table cloth over the door." I stood aside and let Bernardo drag it off the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf said, "Aren't you going to help him? You are one of the boys, after all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not tall enough to hold it up over the entire door," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small smile, derisive, but he moved up to help Bernardo block the open doorway with the tablecloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was left standing behind them with the black iron candelabra in my hands. I stared at the tall, bald man and was half-regretful that I wasn't tall enough to smash the heavy iron candelabra into his skull. Just as well. I'd owe Edward another favor if I killed one of his backups just because he'd scared me.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_32" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36476866" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36476868" class="calibre7"></a>30 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">ICOULD HEAR EDWARD in his best consoling Ted voice, trying to convince her that she didn't need to say Hi to everyone. She argued, polite, but firm, that of course she did. The more he tried to keep her away, the more she wanted to see. Call it a hunch, but I was betting it was me she wanted to see. The house was arranged so that you couldn't enter the three guest bedrooms without going through the dining room. Donna wanted to make sure where I was, and that I hadn't been in anyone's bed but my own. Or at least not in Ted's. Did she think that I was racing ahead of them to my room to throw clothes over my nakedness? Whatever the motive, she was coming this way. I heard Becca's voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shit. I ducked under the rug across the door and nearly ran into them. Donna stopped walking with a small oomph of surprise. Her eyes were wide as she looked at me as if I'd scared her. Peter was watching me with cool brown eyes, as if it was all too boring for words, but underneath the perfect teenage boredom was a light, an interest. Everybody wondered why the tablecloth was in front of the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Becca who said it. "Why is the rug in front of the door?" I kept calling it a tablecloth because that's what Edward was using it for, but it still looked like a rug. Kids stick to the basics.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna looked at Edward. "Yes, Ted, why is the tablecloth in front of the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because we're holding it," Bernardo said from behind the improvised curtain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stepped close to the cloth. "And why are you holding it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ask Ted," Bernardo and Olaf said together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Donna turned back to Edward. I usually know what Edward will say<em class="calibre9">, </em>but with Donna I was out of guesses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got the pictures from the case spread all over the room. They aren't something I want you or the kids to see." Gee, he went for the truth. It must be true love.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," she said. She seemed to think about it for a second or two, then nodded. "Becca and I will take the goodies through to the kitchen." She lifted a white, string-wrapped box, took Becca by the hand and went towards the kitchen. Becca was straining backwards, saying, "But, Mommy, I want to see the pictures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you don't, sweetie," Donna said, and very firmly led the child away</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought that Peter would follow but he stood there, looking at the door way, then glanced at Edward. "What kind of pictures?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bad ones," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How bad?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some of the worst I've seen, and I've seen some awful stuff," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to see," Peter said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said nothing, just looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter scowled at us. "You think I'm a baby."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't want your mom to see them either," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a wimp," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I agreed with him, but not out loud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your mother is who she is," Edward said. "It doesn't make her weak. It just makes her Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him, trying very hard not to gape, but I wanted to. I'd never heard him cut anyone any slack for anything. Edward was not just judgmental He was a harsh judge. What chemical alchemy did the woman have to have won him over? I just did not get it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think what ... Ted is trying to say is that it isn't your age that makes us not want to show you the pictures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think I can't handle it," Peter said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said, "I think you can't handle it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can handle anything that you can handle," he said, arms crossed over his thin chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why? Because I'm a girl?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He actually blushed, as if embarrassed. "I didn't mean that." But of course he had. But, hey, he was fourteen. I'd let it slide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita is one of the toughest people I've ever met," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter squinted at him, arms still hugging his chest. "Tougher than Bernardo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tougher than Olaf?" And I thought more of the kid that he'd put the two men in that order. He knew instinctively which was the scariest man, or maybe it was just Olaf's size. No, I think Peter had a feel for the bad guys. It's something you either have or you don't. It can't really be taught.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even tougher than Olaf," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a disgruntled sound from behind the rug. The sound of Olaf's ego getting bruised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter looked at me, and the look had changed. You could almost see him thinking, trying to put my petite female self in the same category as Olaf's aggressive male presence. He finally shook his head. "She doesn't look as tough as Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you mean arm wrestling, I'm not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned and turned back to Edward. "I don't understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you do," Edward said, "and if you don't, I can't explain it to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter's frown deepened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Part of the problem with the tough-guy code," I said, "is that a lot of it can't be explained."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you understand it," Peter said. He sounded almost accusatory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've spent a lot of my time around very tough guys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not it," Peter said. "You're different from any girl I've ever met."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's different from any girl you will ever meet," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter looked from one to the other of us. "Mom's jealous of her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo's voice came from inside the room. "Can we lower the rug now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me you tough he-men are getting tired," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lactic acid builds up in everybody's muscles, chickie," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd started the name calling so I let the "chickie" comment go. "You need to join your mom and Becca in the kitchen," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do I?" He was looking at Edward, and I realized he was appealing to Edward, asking permission.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said and looked at Edward, trying to tell him with my eyes, not to do this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he had eyes only for the boy. They stared at each other, and something passed between, some knowledge, something. "Drop the cloth," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said and grabbed Peter's arm. I spun him around, so his back was to the door. I'd caught him by surprise, so he didn't struggle. Before he could decide what to do about me, Edward spoke. "Let him go, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him around Peter's shoulder and realized he was taller than me by a few inches. "Don't do this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He wants to see. Let him see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna won't like it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's going to tell her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked into Peter's dark eyes. "He will when he gets mad enough at you or her or both."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't do that," Peter said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. I didn't believe him, and that more than anything made me let go of his arm and back off. If Edward showed Peter this little corner of hell and word got back to Donna, it might be enough to break them up permanently. I was willing to trade some of Peter's innocence for that. Harsh, but true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The rug fell away on Olaf's side first, then Bernardo was left holding the rug in his arms like a limp child. He looked at Edward and shook his head, but he stepped back beside Olaf and let Peter walk into the room. I followed behind him and Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf had moved back near the far door. Bernardo laid the cloth on the table and stepped back to the far end of the table. I took up station to the far wall, almost mirroring Olaf, but at the opposite door. We'd all moved to separate corners of the room, and all of us tried to separate ourselves from what was happening. I don't think even Olaf approved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter took in all the pictures, turning around and around. He paled, and his voice was a little breathy. "Are those people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Edward said. He stayed right beside Peter, not touching, not too close, but very definitely with him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter walked to the nearest wall, to the pictures I'd just been looking at "What happened to them?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't know yet," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter looked at the pictures, eyes flicking from one horrible image to another. He didn't walk the room or study any one picture as closely as I had, but he looked, he saw what was there. He didn't scream or faint or throw up. He'd proven his point. He wasn't a wimp. I wondered if I should warn him about the possibility of nightmares. Nah, he'd either have them or he wouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still pale, with a light dew of sweat on his upper lip, but he was mobile, and his voice was breathy, but calm. "I better help Mom in the kitchen." He walked out still hugging his arms around himself as if he were cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one said a word as he walked out. When I was pretty sure he was out of ear shot, I walked up to Edward. "Well, that went better than I thought it would."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It went about the way I thought it would," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit, Edward, the kid is going to have nightmares."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe, maybe not. Pete's a tough kid." He was looking out through the doorway as if he could still see the boy. His gaze was faraway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him. "You're proud of him. Proud of the fact that he looked at this," I motioned at the pictures, "and didn't freak."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why shouldn't he be proud?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "If Edward were Peter's dad, maybe. But he's not." I turned back to Edward. I stared at him. His face was its usual blankness, but there was a flinching around the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his arm, and the touch was enough. He looked at me. "You're treating him like a prospective son." I shook my head. "You cannot have this family."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you do," I said. "I think you're actually beginning to think about doing it, for real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dropped his gaze, not meeting my eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit, Edward, shit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hate to admit it, but I agree with her," Olaf said. "If it was just the boy, then I would see no problem. I think you can make of him what you will, but the woman and the girl ... " He shook his head. "It will not work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand why you even want a family," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For different reasons. Neither of you believe in marriage," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"True," Olaf said, "but if men like us do marry, it should not be a woman like Donna. She is too ... " he struggled for a word, and finally said, "innocent, and you know that I do not say that about many women."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe that's one of her attractions," Edward said, and he seemed as truly puzzled as the rest of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're already screwing her. Why marry her?" This from Bernardo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If all I wanted was sex, I'd have gone elsewhere," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She any good?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward just looked at him, one long look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo raised his hands. "Sorry, sorry, just curious."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be curious about Donna," Edward said. He turned to me. "You believe in marriage. Underneath all that toughness is a midwestern girl that still believes in the white picket fence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do believe in marriage, but not for people like us, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't know what he would have said to that, because the phone rang and he went to answer it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saved by the bell," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He intends to marry this woman," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I'm afraid so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he wants to marry her, it's his business," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf and I stared at him until the smile on his face faded to a look of puzzlement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf may be a serial rapist, Bernardo, or even a serial killer, but in his own twisted way he has more scruples than you do. Doesn't that worry you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo shook his head. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward came back into the room. His face was back to his normal "Edward face," as if all the near revelations of just a minute ago had never happened. "The monster did another couple in Albuquerque last night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said. "Are you going without me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was watching my face just a little too closely, so I knew there was a surprise coming. "Your presence has been requested on site."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could feel the surprise on my face. "Is Lieutenant Marks not in charge anymore?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was him on the phone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're kidding me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head and smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't get it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd guess that someone up the feeding chain chewed his ass for kicking you out. They probably gave him a choice of working with you, or being off the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to smile. "A case like this can make a career."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Exactly," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we know Marks' price now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Price?" Bernardo asked. "You guys bribed him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "but his principles that he so kindly spat in my face yesterday weren't as precious to him as his career. Always nice to know how strong a person's convictions are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not that strong," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apparently not," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard Donna coming down the hallway, talking loudly to Becca, but I think it was to warn us that they were coming. The men grabbed the rug and went for the doorway. Edward said in his loud, cheerful Ted voice, "Saddle up, boys and girls. We got work to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went for my room. If we were going to go outside the house, I needed more weapons.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_33" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36477392" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36477394" class="calibre7"></a>31 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I SAT IN THE front seat beside Edward. It was probably my imagination but I could feel someone staring at the back of my neck. If I wasn't imagining it, I was betting on Olaf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd added the shoulder holster complete with Browning Hi-Power. Usually it was the only gun I wore until someone tried to kill me, or some monster showed in the flesh. But I'd kept the Firestar in its inner pants holster. Too many pictures of dismembered corpses for comfort. I even took all the knives which tells you how insecure I was feeling. Being stared at hard enough to bore a hole through my flesh was beginning to get on what nerves I had left It wasn't my imagination. I could feel it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned in the seat and met Bernardo's eyes. There was a look on his face when I turned around that was nothing I wanted to see. I had an uncomfortable thought that he was fantasizing and I just might be in the starring role</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you staring at?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked, but it seemed to take a long time for his eyes to really focus on me rather than whatever was inside his head. He gave a slow, almost lazy, smile. "I wasn't doing anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like hell," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't tell me what to think, Anita," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're presentable enough. Go get a date."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd have to wine and dine her, and then I couldn't count on sex at the end of the evening. What good is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then get a hooker," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would if Edward would let me out on my own."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned and looked at Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He answered the question without me having to voice it. "I've forbidden Olaf from ... dating while he's here. Olaf resented it, so I told Bernardo the same thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Very even handed," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is totally unfair to punish me because Olaf is a psycho," Bernardo said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I cannot meet my needs, then why should you be able to?" Olaf said There was something in his voice that made me look at him. He was staring straight ahead, no eye contact to anyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned around in my seat and looked at Edward. "Where do you come up with these people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The same place I find vampire hunters and necromancers," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a point. Enough of a point that we finished the drive to Albuquerque in silence. I felt I had enough moral high ground to throw stones, but evidently Edward disagreed. Since he knew Olaf better than I did, I wasn't going to argue. At least not now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People talk of ranch-style houses, but this really was a ranch. A ranch as in cowboys and horses. It was a dude ranch for tourists so whether it counted as a really real ranch, I wasn't sure. But it was the closest thing to an actual working ranch that I'd ever set foot on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ranch really wasn't in Albuquerque, but in the middle of nowhere. In fact the house and corrals sat in the middle of a whole lot of nothing. Empty space with bunches of dry grass and strange palish soil stretching out and out to the horizon. Hills ringed the ranch like smooth piles of rock and brush. Edward drove us under an entrance that had a cow's skull nailed to it and said, "Dead Horse Ranch." It was so similar to a hundred western movies I'd seen on television that it seemed vaguely familiar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even the corral full of horses spilling in an endless nervous circle seemed stage-managed. The house wasn't exactly what I had pictured, being low to the ground and made of white adobe much like Edward's house but newer. If you could have just erased the plethora of police cars, emergency units, and even some fire rescue equipment, it would have been picturesque in a lonesome down-on-the-prairie sort of way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A lot of the police cars had revolving lights, and the crackle of police radios was thick in the air. I wondered if it was the lights, the noise, or just this many people making the horses nervous. I didn't know much about horses, but surely rushing back and forth around their pen wasn't normal behavior. I wondered if they had been running in circles before the cops came or after. Were horses like dogs? Could they sense bad things? Didn't know, didn't even know who to ask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were stopped just inside the gate by a uniformed cop. He took our names and went off to find someone who would let us pass, or find someone to tell him to kick us out. I wondered if Lieutenant Marks was here. Since he'd issued the invite, it seemed likely. What kind of threat to his career had they used to get him to invite me back?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We waited. None of us spoke. I think we'd all spent a lot of our adult lives waiting for one uniform or another to give us permission to do things. It used to get on my nerves, but lately I just waited. Maturity, or was I just getting too worn down to argue over small stuff? I'd have liked to say maturity, but I was pretty sure that wasn't it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniform came back with Marks trailing behind him. Marks' pale tan suit jacket flapped in the hot wind, giving a glimpse of his gun riding just behind his left hip. He stared at the ground as he walked, briskly, all business, but he was careful not to look at us, at me, maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniform got to us first, but he stood a little back from the open driver's side door and let the lieutenant catch up. Marks finally got there, and he looked fixedly at Edward, as if he could exclude me by just not looking at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are the men in the back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Otto Jefferies, and Bernardo Spotted-Horse." I noticed that Olaf had to use an alias, but Bernardo got to keep his real name. Guess who was wanted for crimes elsewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wouldn't have known how to answer that question but Edward did. "Mr Spotted-Horse is a bounty hunter like myself, and Mr. Jefferies is a retired government worker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks looked at Olaf through the glass. Olaf looked back. "Government worker. What sort of government worker?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The kind that if you contacted the state department, they'd confirm his identity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks tapped on Olaf's window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf rolled the window down with the nearly silent buttons on the door handles. "Yes," he said in a voice that was totally devoid of his usual German burr.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you do for the state department?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call them and ask," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks shook his head. "I have to let you and Blake inside my crime scene, but not these two." He jerked a thumb at the back seat. "They stay in the car."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks looked at him through the open window. His blue green eyes were mostly green right now, and I was beginning to realize that meant he was angry. "Because I said so, and I've got a badge and you don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, at least it was honest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward spoke before Bernardo could do more than make inarticulate noises. "It's your crime scene, Lieutenant. We civilians are just here on your sufferance, we know that." He twisted in his seat to give the two men direct eye contact, but turned so Marks couldn't see his face well. I could, and it was cold and full of warning. "They will be happy to stay in the car. Won't you, boys?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo slumped in his seat, arms crossed on his chest, sulking, but he nodded. Olaf just said, "Of course, whatever the good officer says." His voice was mild, empty. The very lack of tone was frightening, as if he were thinking something very different from the words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks frowned but stepped back from the car. His hand hovered around his body as if he had a sudden desire to touch his gun, but didn't want to appear spooked. I wondered what had been in Olaf's eyes when he spoke those mild words. Something not mild, that I was certain of.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniformed cop had detected something in Marks. He stepped closer to his lieutenant, one hand on the butt of his gun. I didn't know what had changed in Olaf, but he was suddenly making the cops nervous. He hadn't moved. Only his face was turned towards them. What was he doing with just his facial expression that had them so jumpy?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Otto," Edward said softly, so that the sound didn't carry outside the car. But as he had in the house when he said, Olaf, that one word carried a menace, a promise of dire consequence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf blinked and turned his head slowly towards Edward. The look on his face was frightening, feral somehow, as if he'd let down his mask enough to show some of the madness inside. But as I looked at him, I thought this was a face to deliberately frighten people, a sort of tease. Not the real monster, but a monster that people could understand and fear without thinking too hard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf blinked and looked out the far window, face bland and as inoffensive as it got.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned the car off and handed his keys to Bernardo. "In case you want to listen to the radio."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo frowned at him, but took the keys. "Gee, thanks, Dad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned back to the police officers. "We're ready to go when you are, Lieutenant." He opened his door as he said it. The door swinging open made Marks and the uniform take a step or so back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took it as my cue and got out on my side. It wasn't until I came around the front of the Hummer in full sight that Marks finally paid attention to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me, and his face was harsh. He could manage not to show outright hatred in his face, but he couldn't manage neutral. He didn't like me being here. He didn't like it one little bit. Who had twisted his tail in a knot hard enough to force him to let me back on board?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth as if he'd say something, closed it, and just started walking towards the house. The uniformed officer followed at his heels, and Edward and I trailed behind. Edward had his good ol' boy face on, smiling and nodding to the police officers, the emergency workers, everyone and everything in his path. I just stayed at his side, trying not to frown. I didn't know anybody here, and I'd never been comfortable greeting strangers like long-lost friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a lot of cops outside in the yard. I spotted at least two different uniforms, enough plainclothes to open up a discount men's store, and some plainclothes detectives that stood out. I don't know what they do during FBI training that is different from anywhere else, but you can usually spot them. The clothes are slightly different, more uniform, less individual than with regular cops, but it's more an aura about them. An air of authority as if they know that their orders come straight from God and yours don't. I used to think it was insecurity on my part, but since I'm rarely insecure, that can't be it. Whatever "it" was, they had it. The Feds had arrived. That could speed things up, be a big help, or slow things to a crawl and fuck up what little progress had already been made. It depended almost entirely on how the police in charge got along with each other, and how protective everyone was of their turf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These crimes were gruesome enough that we might actually see some cooperation between jurisdictions. Miracles do happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Usually, when there's a body on the ground, the police of whatever flavor are inside at the scene walking on the evidence. But there were too many people out here. There couldn't possibly be that many more inside the house. The house was big, but not that big.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only one thing would keep them out in the New Mexico heat. The scene was a bad one. Gory, piteous, frightening, though no one will admit out loud to that one. Pick an adjective, but the police milled around the yard in the heat with their ties, the women in high heels on the loose gravel. Cigarettes had appeared in a lot of hands. They talked in small hushed voices that didn't carry above the crackle of radios. They huddled in small groups, or sat alone on the edge of cars, but not for long. Everyone kept moving, as if to remain still was to think and that was a bad thing. They reminded me of the horse nervously running in circles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A uniformed police officer was sitting at the open doors of the ambulance The emergency medical technician was bandaging his hand. How had he gotten hurt? I hurried to catch up with Marks. If he were the man in charge he'd know what had happened. Edward just fell into step behind me, no questions, just following my lead. He had ego problems with me sometimes, but on the job there was nothing but the job. You left the shit outside the door. You could always pick it up on your way back out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught up with Marks on the long narrow wraparound porch. "What happened to the uniform that's getting his hand bandaged?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks stopped in mid-stride and looked at me. His eyes were still a hard, pitiless green. You always think of green eyes as being pretty or soft, but his were like green glass. He had a big hate on for me, a big one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled sweetly and thought, fuck you, too. But I'd learned lately to lie even with my eyes. It was almost sad that I could lie with my eyes. They really are the mirror to the soul, and once they go, you are damaged. Not beyond repair, but damaged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other for a second or two, his hatred like a fine burning weight, my pleasant smiling mask. He blinked first, like there'd been any doubt. "One of the survivors bit him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes widened. "Are the survivors still inside?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "They're on their way to the hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anybody else get hurt?" When you ask that at a scene where vics are down, you almost always mean other cops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks nodded, and some of the hostility drained from his eyes leaving them puzzled. "Two other officers had to be taken to the hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How bad?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bad. One nearly got his throat ripped out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have any of the other mutilation vics been that violent?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How many vics were there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two, and one dead, but we're missing at least three other people, maybe five. We've got a couple unaccounted for, but other guests heard them talking about a picnic earlier. We're hoping they missed the show."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. He was being very helpful, very professional. "Thank you, Lieutenant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know my job, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never said otherwise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, then at Edward, then finally settled his gaze on me. "If you say so." He turned abruptly and walked through the open door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Edward. He shrugged. We followed Marks in, though I noticed we'd lost the uniformed officer somewhere in the walk across the yard. No one was spending more time inside than they had to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The living room looked as if someone had taken white liquid and poured it down to form the sloping walls, the curved doorways leading away into the house, the freeform fireplace. There was a bleached cow skull above the fireplace. A brown leather couch wrapped a huge nearly perfect square in front of the cold fire. There were pillows with Native American prints on them. A huge rug that looked almost identical to one of Edward's took up most of the center of the floor. In fact the entire place looked like an updated version of Edward's place. Maybe I still hadn't seen Edward's sense of style. Maybe this was just a type of southwestern style that I'd just never seen. There was a large open section that had been a dining room area. The table was still there. There was even a chandelier formed of what looked to be deer antlers. There was a pile of white, red-soaked cloth to one side of the table. blood was seeping out of the bottom of the cloth bundle, leaking across the polished hardwood floor in tiny rivulets of crimson and darker fluids.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A photographer was snapping pictures of something on the table. My view was hidden by three suit-covered backs. Panic clawed at my throat, and it was suddenly harder to breathe. I didn't want the men to move. I did not want to see what was on the table. My heart was pounding in my throat, and I had to take a deep, shaking breath, clearing my throat. The deeper breath had been a mistake. The smell of fresh death is like a cross between an outhouse and a slaughterhouse. There was an acrid stink, and I knew the intestines had been perforated. But there was another smell under the almost sweet smell of too much blood. A smell of meat. I'd tried to find other words for it, but it was the closest I could come to describing it. It was like drowning in the scent of raw hamburger. Meat, a person reduced to so much meat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That one smell made me want to run. To just turn on my heel and walk away. This was not my job. I was not a cop. I was here as a favor to Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I left now, he could bill me. But of course, it was too late. Because I wasn't here just because of a favor to anyone now. I was here to help stop this from happening again. And that was more important than any nightmares I was about to accumulate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A thin heavy line of liquid oozed off the edge of the table and fell slowly to the floor with a sparkle of crimson from the bright chandelier. The short man in the middle turned and caught a glimpse of us. His face was grim, but when he caught sight of us, of me, something close to a smile curled his lips. He left the others grouped around the table and came towards us. He was short for an FBI agent, but Special Agent Bradley Bradford walked with a confident swinging stride that covered ground and made taller men sometimes have to hurry to keep up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We'd met over a year ago in Branson, Missouri, on a vampire case that had turned out to be vampires plus a little something older and less local. People had died, but mostly the monsters had died. Bradford must have been happy with my performance because he kept in touch. I knew that he was now assigned to the new FBI preternatural division. Last I heard they were calling it the Special Research Section, just like the Serial Killer Profiler unit was now called Investigative Support. The FBI tries to avoid sensational buzzwords like serial killer or preternatural or monster. But call it what you like, a spade's a spade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to put his hand forward to be shaken, then stopped. His hands were encased in plastic gloves splattered with blood, and a spot on one side that was too black, too thick, to be blood. He smiled an apology as he lowered his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew who had twisted Marks' tail and gotten me back in the ball game. I took shallow, even breaths and tried not to embarrass him. I hadn't thrown up at a murder scene in nearly two years. Be a shame to spoil my record now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, it's good to see you again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded and felt myself smile. I was happy to see Bradley, but ... "We really need to start meeting when there aren't bodies on the ground." See light, joking, I could be cool. I was also delaying the final walk to what lay on the table. I could do semi-clever repartee all damn day if I just didn't have to see what was bleeding in the dining room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Why was this one getting to me so badly? No answer, but it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another agent joined us. He was tall, slender, skin actually dark enough to be called black. His hair was cut close to his head in a low, well-groomed wedge. He straightened his tie, and settled his coat in place with long-fingered hands that seemed to dance even in these small movements. I'm not one of those women who notices hands usually, but there was something about his that made me think poet, musician, as if he did other things with them besides shooting practice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Special Agent Franklin, this is Ted Forrester and Anita Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook hands with Edward, but didn't answer the Ted smile with one of his own. He turned serious eyes to me. His hand was enough longer than mine that shaking was a little awkward, but we managed. But it was somehow an unsatisfying handshake as if we still didn't have the measure of each other. Some men still use a handshake as a way of sizing you up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you been in the house, Ms. Blake?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just got here," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded as if it were important. "Bradford has painted a glowing picture of you." There was something in his voice that made me say ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I take it you don't share Bradford's opinion of me." I smiled when I said it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked and looked startled, then his shoulders relaxed just a touch, and a very small smile played across his lips. "Let's say I'm skeptical of civilians with no special training coming into a crime scene."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at the "no special training." Edward and I exchanged glances. The Ted face was slipping, letting some of his own natural cynicism leak into those blue eyes, that nearly boyish face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Civilians," he said softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't have badges," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That must be it," he said, voice still soft, and vaguely amused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin frowned at us. "Are we amusing you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradford stepped between us almost literally. "Let's let them look at the scene, then we'll decide things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin's frown deepened. "I don't like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your objection has been noted, Franklin," Bradford said, and there was a tone in his voice that said he'd had enough of the younger man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin must have heard it too, because he smoothed his perfect tie once more and led the way towards the dining room. Bradford followed him. Edward looked at me, asking a question with his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm coming," I said. Once I'd tried being more macho than the police. Nothing pleased me. I was heap-big-vampire-slayer. But lately, I just didn't give a crap. I didn't want to do this anymore. It was almost a shock to realize that I really didn't want to be here, I'd seen too many horrors in too short a space of years. I was burning out, or maybe I'd already burned out and hadn't realized it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Panic tightened my stomach into a hard knot. I had to get it under control.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to separate myself from the task ahead, or I was going to lose it. I tried to take a few calming breaths, but the smell came thick on my tongue. I swallowed, wished I hadn't, and stared at the tips of my shoes. I stared at the ends of my Nikes as they touched the fringe of the dining room rug until the knot in my gut eased, and I felt calm. There was still a soft flutter in my chest, but it was the best I could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agent Franklin said, "Ms. Blake, are you all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised my eyes and saw what lay on the table.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_34" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36477940" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36477942" class="calibre7"></a>32 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I LET OUT a low, "Wow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Bradford said, "wow is good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The table was pale natural pine, a pale, almost white wood. It matched the walls and the rest of the decor and made a dramatic showpiece for the thing on the table. Thing, it, no other pronouns would do. Distance, distance, mustn't think that this was once a human being.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At first all I could see was the blood and pieces of meat. It was like a jigsaw puzzle with pieces missing. The first thing I was sure of was the neck. I could see the broken edge of the spine sticking up above the flesh of the neck. I looked around for the head, but none of the blood-covered lumps was the right size. But there was a leg nearly perfectly whole, only ripped away from the hips, but it was intact. It had not been disjointed. Once I saw that, I found ahand lying on its back, fingers cupped as if cradling something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I bent closer, hands in my pockets because I'd forgotten my own surgical gloves back in St. Louis. How unprofessional of me. I leaned over the hand and I wasn't smelling the stink anymore. I wasn't thinking oh, my, God, how awful. The world narrowed down to a nickel-sized lump cupped in the hand. I saw what was there. The hand had long, carefully groomed fingernails, some broken off, as if she'd struggled. She. I looked to the ring finger and found a wedding band set that looked heavy and expensive, though to be sure I'd have to move the hand and I wasn't ready for that yet. I registered all the information as if from a great distance because I'd found a clue. I concentrated on that like it was a life line, and maybe it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's something in her hand. It may be only a piece of cloth, but ... " I bent so low over it that my breath caressed the skin and brought a scent up from it to me. Musty, an animal smell. My breath did one other thing. It moved the edge of the thing in her hand. The one tiny edge wasn't as blood-logged, and it moved as I blew across the hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I straightened. "I think it's a feather." I looked around the room trying to see where it could have come from. Except for the antler chandelier nothing else in the room seemed made of animals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradford and Franklin looked at each other. "What?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What made you say her?" Franklin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The nails, the wedding ring set." I glanced up at the rest of the body. The only other clue that this had been a woman was maybe the size of the neck dainty. "She was small, about my size, maybe a little smaller." I heard myself say it and felt nothing. I felt empty like a shell thrown up on the sand, empty and echoing. It felt a little bit like being in shock, and I knew that later I'd pay for it. Either I'd have screaming hysterics once I had some privacy, or I'd broken something in myself that might never come back, might never fix.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides the fact that it's female, what else do you see?" Franklin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't like being tested, but somehow I just didn't have the energy to bitch about it. "The other vics were disjointed down to their finger bones. This one isn't. When I first heard that survivors were being carefully skinned then mutilated, and that the dead were all torn apart, I thought we might dealing with a pair of killers. One very organized and in charge, the other disorganized and following. But the bodies weren't torn up. They were very carefully dissected. It was organized, very thought out. But this ... " I motioned at the thing on the table. "This was not organized. Either our organized killer is beginning to dissolve and become less coherent, or we have two killers like I originally thought. If we have two killers, then the organized one in charge has lost control over his follower. This murder was not well planned. That means mistakes, which will help us. But it may also mean that anyone that crosses paths with this thing is dead. Higher body count from here on out, more frequent kills maybe, maybe not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not bad, Ms. Blake. I even agree with you on most of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Agent Franklin." I wanted to ask what parts didn't he agree with, but was pretty sure where we disagreed. "You still think this is a human serial killer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at the remains like lumpy red paint tossed across the table. The bloodstains had spread until I was standing in the edge of it. The cops hated to have you tracking blood everywhere. I stepped back, and the stain spread out towards me. I took another step back. My foot crunched in something. I knelt and found salt on the floor. Someone had gotten messy during lunch. I stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is fresh kill, Agent Franklin, real fresh. How long would it take a person, even two people, to reduce another human being to this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His long hands played over his tie again. I wondered if he knew he did that when he was nervous. If he didn't, I'd play poker with him any day. "I really couldn't give an estimate, not and be accurate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine. Do you really think a person is strong enough to tear someone apart like this quickly enough to have the blood this fresh? The damn thing's bleeding like it's still alive, it's so damn fresh. I don't think a human being could do this much damage this quickly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are entitled to your opinion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Look, Franklin, it was logical for you to assume the killer, or killers, were human. It usually is human in your line of work. I'm assuming you're with the Investigative Unit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great. See, you hunt people. That's what you do. They are monsters but not real monsters. I don't hunt people. I hunt monsters. That's just about all I do. I don't think I've ever been called into a case where the perp was human, or at least where magic wasn't involved."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your point," he said, very stiff, eyes angry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My point is that if they had thought this was a monster to begin with, they'd have sent it over to Bradford's new unit. But they didn't, did they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes were a little less angry, more uncertain. "No, they didn't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone thought it was human, so why shouldn't you assume the same thing? If they'd dreamt that it was non-human, they wouldn't have sent it to you, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I suppose so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great. Then let's work together, not at cross purposes. If we split our manpower between looking for people and looking for monsters, it will cost time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if you're wrong, Ms. Blake, if it is a human being doing these terrible things and we stop investigating down that avenue it could cost more lives." He shook his head. "It's not my initial report I'm standing by, Ms. Blake. It's the chance that it is a human perpetrator. We will continue to treat this as a normal investigation." He looked at Bradford. "That is my final recommendation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned to Edward. "And you, Mr. Forrester, are you going to dazzle me with your profiling abilities?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you offer to this investigation then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When we find it, I'll kill it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin shook his head. "We are not judge, jury, and executioner, Mr. Forrester. We are the FBI."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at him, and most of Ted's good ol' boy charm seemed to have seeped out of his eyes, leaving them cold and uncomfortable to meet. "I have two men with me out in the car, one of them is an expert on this type of crime. If this was done by a person, then he'll be able to tell us how it was done." His voice had gone bland, smooth, and empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who is this expert?" Franklin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why is he still out in the car?" Bradford said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Otto Jefferies, and because Lieutenant Marks wouldn't let him in," Edward answered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By the way," I said, "thanks for getting me back on the case, Bradley."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley smiled. "Don't thank me. Help us solve the damn thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who is Otto Jefferies?" Franklin asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a retired government worker," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How does a retired government worker have expertise on this type of killing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at him until Franklin began to fidget, smoothing his hands down not just his tie but his suit coat. He even checked his cuffs, though to make the movement really effective you needed cufflinks. Buttons just didn't do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you are implying something by your so pointed gaze, but my question stands. What land of government worker would have this kind of expertise?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin may have been nervous but he was also stubborn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call the state department," Edward said. "They'll answer your questions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want you to answer my questions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward gave a small shrug. "Sorry, if I told you the truth, I'd have to kill you." He said the last with a good ol' boy smile, and an awe-shucks shine in his eyes. Which probably meant he was serious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bring your men in," Bradley said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I must protest involving more civilians in this case," Franklin said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Duly noted." Bradley looked at Edward. "Bring them in, Mr. Forrester. I'm agent in charge on site." Edward went for the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For now," Franklin said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley looked up at the taller man. "I think you need to be elsewhere, Franklin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where would I be of better use than overseeing the crime scene?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anywhere that is away from me," Bradley said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin started to say something, then looked at both of us in turn, and finally at Bradley. "I won't forget this, Agent Bradford."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nor will I, Agent Franklin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Franklin turned abruptly and walked out, hands sliding over his clothes When he was out of earshot, I said, "He doesn't seem to like you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Making a new division for preternatural crimes wasn't a popular move with everyone. Until now the Investigative Division has been handling them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, and I thought the FBI was above such petty disputes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley laughed. "God, don't I wish."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is a really, really fresh scene, Bradley. I don't mean to tell you your job, but shouldn't we be searching the area for the creature?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We did a ground search, turned up nothing. We've still got the helicopter up. We also sent off for geology maps of the ranch in case there's a cave we missed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would a geology survey cover man-made ruins?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This area of the country is supposed to be lousy with ruins. Just because nothing's visible from above ground doesn't mean there won't be something buried. A room, or even a kiva."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's a kiva?" Bradley asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A sacred underground room for ceremonial magic. It's one of the few things that most of the southwestern tribes, or pueblos, have in common."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley smiled. "Don't tell me you're also an expert on Native American religious practices, too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Nope. I had a brief overview in my comparative religion class in college, but I didn't take Native American as one of my electives. Knowing that kiva do exist and their general use pretty much exhausts my knowledge of the southwestern tribes. Now if you need to know details about the Sioux sun worshipping rituals, those I remember."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll check with the surveying company and see if they mark man-made structures."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The locals called in some tracking dogs. The dogs wouldn't come in the house. They refused to track."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Were they bloodhounds?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley nodded. "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bloodhounds are a very friendly breed. They are not attack dogs. Sometimes on the preternatural bad stuff they refuse the trail. You need some trollhunds."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Troll-what?" Bradley asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trollhunds. They were originally bred to hunt the Greater European Forest Trolls. When the trolls went extinct, the breed almost died out. They're still a rare breed, but they are the best you can find for tracking preternatural bad guys. Unlike the Bloodhound they will attack and kill what they trail."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you know so much about dogs?" Bradley said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My dad's a vet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had reentered with Olaf and Bernardo at his back. He'd heard the last. "Your dad, a doggie doctor. I didn't know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was looking intently at me, and I realized that Edward didn't really know much more about me then I did about him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are there any trollhunds in this area?" Bradley asked it of Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No. If there were I'd know it. I'd have used them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You knew about troll-whatsits, too?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "If you're a varmint hunter, so should you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo frowned at the criticism, then shrugged. "I do more bodyguard work than critter killing these days." He was looking at everyone, everything but the table and contents.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe you should go back to guarding other people's bodies," Edward said. I don't know what I'd missed, but Edward was angry with him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at him. "Maybe I should."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one is stopping you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn you, ... Ted," and Bernardo walked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Olaf, as if for a clue to what had just happened, but Olaf had eyes only for the remains. His face was transformed. It took me a few seconds to realize what the expression on his face was, because it was wrong. It did not match what was happening. He stared down at the remains of that woman with enough raw lust in his eyes to burn down the house. It was a look that should have been saved for privacy, to be shared between your beloved and yourself. It was not a look for public consumption, when you were looking at the bleeding remains of a woman you did not know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Staring into Olaf's face, I was cold, cold all the way down to my Nikes. Fear, but not of the monster, or rather not of that monster. If you had given me a choice between whatever was doing these killings or Olaf, right that moment I wouldn't have known who to pick. It was sort of like choosing between the tiger and the tiger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe I was standing too close, I don't know. He just suddenly turned his head and looked full at me. And just like I'd known in the car what Bernardo was thinking, I knew that Olaf was looking for a star in his own little fantasy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held my hands up, shaking my head, and backed away from him. "Don't even go there, ... Otto." I was beginning to really hate all these aliases.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She was almost exactly your height." His voice had a soft, almost dreamy quality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Drawing a gun and shooting him was probably overkill, but I certainly didn't have to stand there and help his imagination. I turned to Bradley, "Someone said there were other bodies. Let's go see." Five minutes ago, you'd have had to drag me into the next chamber of horrors. Now I grabbed Bradley's arm and half pulled him, half let him lead me deeper into the house. I could feel Olaf's gaze against my back like a hand, hot and close. I didn't look back. Nothing ahead of me could be worse than watching Olaf paw through the woman's remains, knowing that he was thinking of me while he did it.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_35" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36478389" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36478392" class="calibre7"></a>33 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">BRADLEY LED ME to a door that had been half-torn out of its hinges. Something big had pushed through here. Bradley had to use both hands to get the door to one side. It seemed to have settled into the carpet, wedging itself. He jerked back, and I jumped, pulse in my throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Damn splinters." He held up the palm of his gloved hand and there was a small crimson spot on the plastic. He jerked the glove off. The splinter seemed to have come off with the glove, but it was bleeding freely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some splinter," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Dammit." Bradley looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You better let somebody look at it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, but didn't turn to go. "Don't be insulted, but not everyone is happy with me forcing you back on this case. I can't leave you alone in here with evidence. If there were ever questions raised, it would be hard to explain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never pocketed evidence from a crime scene in my life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Anita, but I can't take the chance. Will you follow me out to the ambulance?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was having to cup one hand under the other to catch the blood so it didn't reach the carpet. I frowned, but nodded. "Fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to say something, then turned and walked back to the living room. We were about a fourth of the way through the room when Edward asked, "Otto wants to open the table cloth and see what's inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll send the photographer and Agent Franklin in to oversee it." Bradley kept going for the door having to hurry a little to keep his own blood from contaminating the scene.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither Edward nor Olaf nor the uniform that had magically appeared to watch them fondle the evidence, asked how he'd hurt his hand. Maybe no one cared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I followed Bradley across the gravel turn-around to the ambulance. There I were still too many people mulling around outside. Shouldn't they be out searching for the creature? It wasn't my job to tell them their job, but this was the freshest crime scene yet, and there just didn't seem to be enough frantic activity to suit me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley sat down at the end of the ambulance and let the techs treat his wound. Because it was a wound. Splinter, my ass. He'd stabbed himself. I tried to be a good girl and just stand there, but I think my impatience showed, because Bradley started talking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We did send people out to search when we arrived, and we arrived damn quick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't say anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, then grimaced as the EMT did something to his hand that hurt. "Walk far enough away from the house to give a 360 look. Then come back and tell me what you see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. He motioned me off with his good hand. I shrugged and started walking. The heat was like a weight across my shoulders, but without humidity it just wasn't as bad. The gravel crunched under my feet, louder than it should have been. I walked in the opposite direction from the horse corral. The horses were still running in their endless chase like a maniac merry-go-round. I threaded my way through the cars, marked and unmarked. The fire truck had driven away. I wasn't sure why it had been here in the first place. Though sometimes when you call 911, you get more emergency vehicles than you need, especially if the caller panics and isn't specific enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped beside the silent revolving lights of a car. Who had called the police? Did we actually have a witness? If we did, why hadn't anyone mentioned it? If we didn't, then who had called for help?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked until the hot dry wind rustling through the clumps of grass was louder than the electric squawk of radios. I stopped and turned back towards the house. The cars were small enough that I could have covered one of them with my hand. I'd probably walked farther out than I needed to go. Far enough out that if I yelled for help, they might not hear me. Not bright. I should walk further in, but I needed to be clear of it for awhile. I needed to be out in the wind alone. I compromised. I drew the Browning and put off the safety, pointing the barrel at the ground, one-handed. Now I could enjoy the solitude and still be safe. Though, truthfully, I wasn't sure if what we were chasing gave a damn about bullets, silver or otherwise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bradley had said to look. I looked. The ranch lay in a large round valley or maybe a plateau, since we'd had to drive up some hills to get here. Whichever, the land stretched flat and smooth for miles to the rim of distant hills. Of course, I'd been surprised by distances here, so maybe the hills were really mountains, and the land stretched for a very long way in every direction. There were no trees. There was almost no vegetation above thigh height to me. Whatever had taken that door out had been big, bigger than a man, though not by much. I turned in a slow circle, scanning the ground, and there was nowhere for something that large to hide. They'd walked this ground when they first arrived, full of confidence that the creature couldn't have gotten far. They marched out, and out, and out, and found nothing. The helicopter buzzed overhead, high enough that it didn't disturb the wind, but low enough that I was pretty sure it was looking at me. They were looking for anything unusual, and I was standing out here by myself, unusual enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The helicopter circled a few times, then buzzed off to search somewhere-else. I looked out at the empty land. There was nowhere to hide. Where had it gone? Where could it have gone?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Underground, maybe, or it flew away. If it flew away, I couldn't help them find it, but if it went underground ... Caves, or an old well, maybe. I'd suggest it to Bradley, and probably be told that they'd checked it. But hey, I was here to offer suggestions, wasn't I?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard someone behind me and whirled. I had the gun halfway up when I recognized Detective Ramirez. He had his hands up and to each side, away from his gun. I let out the breath I'd been holding and holstered the gun "Sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's okay," he said. He was wearing another white dress shirt with the sleeves rolled back over dark, strong forearms. The tie was a different color but it still hung loose like a necklace, and the top two buttons of his shirt were open so that you could see the smooth hollow of his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No it's not. I'm not usually this jumpy." I hugged myself, not because I was cold. Far from it. But because I badly wanted someone to hold me. I wanted to be comforted. Edward had many uses. Comfort was not one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez came up beside me. He didn't try and touch me, just stood very close and looked out over the land where I was looking. He spoke still staring out in the distance. "The case getting to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah, I don't know why."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a sharp laugh and turned to me, face halfway between astonishment and humor. "You don't know why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "No, I don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, smiling, but his eyes were gentle. "Anita, this is an awful case. I've never seen anything this bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen things as bad as the vivisected victims, the ones that died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face sobered. "You've seen things that bad before?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the mutilations?" he asked. His face was very serious now, His smooth nearly black-brown eyes watched my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I've never seen anything like the survivors." I laughed, but it wasn't a happy sound. "If survivor is the word for them. What kind of life are they going to have, if they live?" I hugged myself tighter, staring at the ground, trying not to think.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been having nightmares," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him. Police don't admit things like that often, especially not to civilian consultants that they've just met. We looked at each other, and his eyes were so gentle, so genuine. Unless he was a much better actor than I thought he was, Ramirez was letting me see the real him. I appreciated it, but didn't know how to say it out loud. You don't verbalize something like that. The best you can do is return the favor. The trouble was, I wasn't sure what the real me was anymore. I didn't know what to put in my eyes. I didn't know what to let him see. I finally stopped trying to pick and choose, and think I settled for confused, bordering on scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched my shoulder lightly. When I didn't say anything, he moved into me, wrapping his arms across my back, holding me against him. I stayed stiff in his arms for a second or two, but didn't pull away. I relaxed against him in inches, until my head rested in the curve of his neck, my arms tentatively, around his waist. Hewhispered, "It will be all right, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head against his shoulder. "I don't think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tried to see my face but I was standing too close, at too awkward an angle. I pulled back so he could see my face, and suddenly I felt awkward standing there with my arms around a stranger. I pulled away, and he let me go, only keeping the fingers of one hand grasped in his. He gave my hand a little shake. "Talk to me, Anita, please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been doing cases like this for about five years. When I'm not looking at the messily dead, I'm hunting vampires, rogue shapeshifters, you name it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His was holding my hand solidly now, wrapped in the warmth of his skin. I didn't pull away. I needed something human to hold onto. I tried to put into words what I'd been thinking for awhile now. "A lot of cops never use their guns, not in thirty years. I've lost count of how many people I've killed." His hand tightened on mine, but he didn't interrupt. "When I started out, I thought vampires were monsters. I really believed it. But lately I'm not so sure. And regardless of what they are, they look very human. I could get a call tomorrow that would send me down to the morgue to put a stake through the heart of a body that looks every bit as human as you and me. Once I've got a court order of execution, I am legally sanctioned to shoot and kill the Vampire or vampires in question, and anyone that stands in my way. That includes human servants or people with just a bite on them. One bite, two bites, they can be healed, cured. But I've killed them to save myself, to save others."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You did what you had to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Maybe, maybe, but that doesn't really matter anymore. It doesn't matter whether I'm right to do it, or not. Just because it's a righteous kill doesn't mean it doesn't affect you. I use to think that if I was right, it would he enough, but it's not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew me a little closer with his hand. "What are you saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "I need a vacation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed then, and it was a good laugh, open and joyous, nothing special about it but his own astonishment. I'd heard better laughs but none when I needed it more. "A vacation, just a vacation?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "I don't see myself taking up flower arranging, Detective Ramirez."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hernando," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Hernando. This is part of who I am." I realized we were still holding hands, and I drew away from him. He let me, no protest. "Maybe if I take a break, I'll be able to do it again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What if a vacation isn't enough?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll cross that bridge when I come to it." It wasn't just the brutal day in and day out of the job. My reaction to Bernardo's body and letting a perfect stranger comfort me were so unlike me. I was missing the guys, but it was more than that. When I left Richard, I left the pack, all my werewolf friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I left Jean-Claude, I lost all the vamps, and strangely one or two of them were friends. You can be friends with a vampire as long as you remember that they are monsters and not human beings. How you can do both at the same time, I can't really explain, but I manage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hadn't just cut myself off from the men in my life for six months. I'd cut myself off from my friends. Even Ronnie, Veronica Sims, one of my few human friends had a new hot romance. She was dating Richard's best friend which made socializing awkward. Catherine, my lawyer and friend, had only been married two years, and I didn't like to interfere with her and Bob.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're thinking something very serious," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked and looked at him. "Just realizing how isolated I am even back home. Here, I am so ... " I shook my head without finishing it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "You're only isolated if you want to be, Anita. I've offered to show you the local sights."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Thanks, really. Under other circumstances, I'd say, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's stopping you?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The case for one. If I start dating one of the local cops, then my credibility goes down the tubes, and I'm not too high on some lists already."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What else?" He had a very gentle face, soft, as if he would be very gentle in everything he did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got two men waiting back home. Waiting to see who I'm going to choose, or if I'm dumping both of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes widened. "Two. I'm impressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Don't be. My personal life is a mess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry to hear that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't believe I just told you all that. It isn't like me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm a good listener."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"May I escort you back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled at the old-fashioned phrasing. "Can you answer some questions first?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ask." He sat down on the ground in his dark brown pants, lifting the pant legs so they wouldn't bunch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat down beside him. "Who called the police?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A guest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where is he or she?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hospital. Severe shock brought on by trauma."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No physical injuries?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who were the mutilation vics this time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The wife's brother and two nephews, all over twenty. They lived and worked on the ranch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the other guests? Where were they?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He closed his eyes, as if visualizing the page. "Most of them were off on a planned outing, an overnight camping trip into the mountains. But the rest borrowed the ranch cars that are kept for the guests' use and left."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me guess," I said. "They just felt restless, jittery, had to get out of the house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "Just like the neighbors around all the other houses."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a spell, Ramirez," I said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't make me ask you again to use my first name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled and looked away from the teasing look in his eyes. "Hernando, this is either a spell or some sort of ability the creature possesses to cause fear, dread, in the ones it doesn't want to kill or hurt. But I'm betting on a spell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because it's too selective to be a natural anxiety like a vampire's ability to hypnotize with its eyes. A vamp can bespell one person or a room full of people, but it can't do an entire street except for one house. It's too exact. You need to be able to organize your magic for this, and that means a spell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked one of the rough-looking blades of grass, running it between his fingers. "So we're looking for a witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know something about wiccan and other flavors of witchcraft, and I don't know any way a lone wiccan, or even a coven could do this. I'm not saying there isn't a human spell worker involved somewhere, but there is definitely something otherworldly, nonhuman, at work here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We got some blood traces off the broken door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Great. I wish someone would tell me when we find a clue. Everyone, including Ted, is playing it so close to the chest, I've spent most of my time going over ground that someone else has already figured out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ask me and I'll tell you anything you want to know." He tossed the grass blade to the ground. "But we better be getting back before you get a worse reputation than just dating me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't argue. Put any woman in an area run mostly by men and rumors will fly. Unless you make it very clear that you are off limits, there is also a certain competitiveness that sets in. Some men are either trying to run you out of town or get into your pants. They don't seem to know any other way to deal with a woman. If you're not a sexual object, you're a threat. Always makes me wonder what kind of childhoods they had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hernando stood brushing grass and dirt off the back of his pants. He seemed to have had a dandy childhood, or at least he'd turned out well. Congrats to his parents. Someday he'd bring home a nice girl and have nice children in a nice house with yard work on the weekends, and every Sunday dinner at one set of grandparents or another. A nice life if you can get it, and he still got to solve murders. Talk about having it all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What did I have? What did I really have? I was too young for a mid-life crisis, and too old for an attack of conscience. We started walking back towards the cars. I was hugging my arms again, and had to force myself to stop. I lowered my arms to my sides and walked along beside Ramirez ... ah, Hernando, like nothing was wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks said that one of the first cops on the scene had his throat nearly bitten out. How did that happen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't here for the first rush. The lieutenant waited to call me in." There was a trace of harshness in his voice. He was gentle, but not if you pushed him. "But I heard that the three living victims attacked the cops. They had to subdue them with batons. They just kept trying to take pieces out of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why would they do that? How would they do it? I mean you skin most people and rip off pieces, they aren't going to feel like fighting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I helped pick up some of the earlier survivors, and they didn't fight. They just lay there and moaned. They were hurt and they acted hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have they ever traced down Thad Bromwell, the son of the first scene I saw?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hernando's eyes widened. "Marks didn't call you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He is such a shithead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I agreed. "What? Did they find the body?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's alive. He was away on a camping trip with friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's alive," I said. Then whose soul had I seen hovering in the bedroom? I didn't say it out loud because I'd forgotten to mention the soul to the police. Marks had been ready to chase me out of town. If I'd started talking about souls floating near the ceiling, he'd have gotten matches and a stake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But someone had died in that room, and the soul was still confused about where to go. Most of the time if the soul hovers, it hovers over the body, the remains. Only three people lived in the house, two of them mutilated, and the boy somewhere else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had an idea. "These new mutilation victims, they kept fighting, kept trying to take bites out of the officers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure about the bites, not just hitting, but like they were trying to feed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know about feeding, but it was all bite wounds." He was looking at me strangely. "You've thought of something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I may have. I have to see the other body, the one behind the door first, but then I think it's time to go back to the hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started walking again, and he grabbed my arm, turned me to face him, There was fierceness in his eyes, an intensity that trembled down his arm. "You've only been here a couple of days. I've been dealing with this for weeks. What do you know that I don't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at his hand until he let me go, but I told him. He was having nightmares about this shit, and I hadn't gotten to that point yet. "I'm an animator. I raise zombies for a living. My specialty is the dead. One thing that the living dead have in common with one other from zombie, to ghoul, to vampire, is that they must feed off the living to sustain themselves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Zombies don't eat people," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If a zombie is raised and the animator that raised it can't control it, then it can go wild. It becomes a flesh-eating zombie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought that was just stories."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No, I've seen it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying that maybe there are no survivors. Maybe there are just dead and the living dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He actually went pale. I touched his elbow to steady him, but he stood straight. "I'm all right. I'm all right." He looked at me. "What do you do with a flesh-eating zombie?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Once it's gone amok, there isn't anything anyone can do except destroy it. The only way to do that is fire. Napalm is good, but any fire will do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll never let us roast these people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not unless we can prove what I'm saying is true."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you prove it?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure yet, but I'll talk to Doctor Evans and we'll come up with something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why would the earlier vics be docile and these new ones be vicious?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, unless the spell or the monster is changing, maybe growing stronger. I just don't know, Hernando. If I'm right about there being no survivors, then I've had my brilliant idea for the day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, face very serious. He stared at the ground. "Jesus, if they are all dead, then that means that this thing we're after is making more of itself?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd be surprised if it was ever human but maybe. I don't know. I do know that if it is growing stronger and the skinned ones are growing more violent,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I then the creature may be controlling them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other. "I'll call the hospital and get more men down there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call the Santa Fe hospital, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded and broke into a half-run across the gravel, moving through the cars like he had a purpose. The other cops were watching him, as if wondering what the rush was. I hadn't asked Hernando if they'd checked for underground hiding places. Shit. I went to find Bradley and ask him. Then I'd go back into the house one last time, see the last body, and then ... off to the hospital to answer the age-old question: what is life and when is death a sure thing?</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_36" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36479018" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36479021" class="calibre7"></a>34 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE MAN'S FACE stared up at me, eyes wide, glazed, unseeing. His head was still attached to his spine, but the chest had been split open as though two great hands had dug into his rib cage and pulled. The heart was missing. The lungs had been ripped, probably when the rib cage gave. The stomach had been punctured, giving a sour smell to the smaller room. The liver and intestines lay in a wet heap to one side of the body as if they had all spilled out at the same time. The lower intestine still curled down inside the lower end of the body cavity. By smell alone I was pretty sure that the intestines hadn't been pierced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat back on my heels beside the body. Blood had splattered the lower half of the man's face, drops of it scattering across the rest of his face and into his graying hair. Violent, very violent, and very quick. I stared into his sightless eyes and felt nothing. I was back to being numb and I was not complaining. I think if I'd seen this body first, then I'd have been horrified, but the remains in the dining room had just used me up for the day. This was awful, but there were worse things, and those things were in the next room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it wasn't the body that was interesting. It was the room. There was a circle of salt around the body. A book lay within the circle covered so thickly in blood that I couldn't read the pages it was opened to. They'd taken all the pictures and videos they were going to in this room so I used borrowed gloves to raise the book up. It was bound with embossed leather, but there was no title. The middle half of the book had soaked so much blood up that the pages were sticking together. I didn't try and pry them apart. The police and the Feds had technicians for delicate work. I was careful not to close the book and lose the place the man was probably reading from. For all I knew the book had been on the desk that the man shoved against the door, and it had simply fallen to the floor, opening on its own. But to think that meant we had no clue, so we'd all pretend we were sure that the man had deliberately opened the book. In the middle of being chased by a monster that had just butchered his wife, he went for this book, opened it, started to read. Why?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The book was hand-written and I read enough to know that it was a book of shadows. It was the spell book, sort of, of a practicing witch. One that followed an older or more orthodox tradition than the neo-pagan movement Gardian or Alexandrian, maybe. Though again I couldn't be sure. I'd had one semester in college on comparative witchcraft, though now I'm sure they called it comparative wiccan. Of the wiccan practitioners I knew personally, none of them practiced anything this traditional.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put the book carefully back where'd I'd found it and stood. The bookshelves against the near wall were full of books on psychic research, the preternatural, mythology, folklore, and wicca. I had some of the same books at home, so the books alone weren't proof of much. But the clincher was the altar. It was an antique wooden chest with a silk cloth over the top. There were silver candlesticks with partially burned candles in them. The candles had runes carved into them. Other than the fact that they were runes, I couldn't read them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a round mirror with no frame sitting flat between the candles. There was a small bowl of dried herbs to one side, a larger bowl of water, and a small carved box tight shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that what I think it is?" Bradley asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"An altar. He was a practitioner. I think that book is his book of shadows, his spell book for lack of a better term."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's salt in the floor of the dining room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not unusual," Bradley said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but a salt circle is. I think he was somewhere further back in the house. He heard his wife screaming or heard the monsters. Something alerted him. He didn't come running with a gun, Bradley. He came running with a handful of salt. Maybe he had something else in his hands or on his person, some charm or amulet. I don't see it, but that doesn't mean it's not here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying he threw salt at this thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why, for god's sake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Salt and flame are two of our oldest purifying agents. I use salt to bind a zombie back into its grave. You can throw it on fairies, fetches, a whole host of critters, and it will make them hesitate, maybe not much more."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So he threw salt and maybe some charm at the creature, then what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that's why the monster stopped, and why the tablecloth full of trophies is still sitting by the table."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't the monster go back and get the trophies after he killed the man?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Maybe he finished the spell before he died. Maybe he drove it from the house. I'd like to get a real wiccan in here to look over the scene."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wiccan, you mean witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but most of them prefer the term wiccan."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Politically correct," Bradley said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What could a real wiccan tell us that you can't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She might know what spell he used. If the spell drove the thing from the house, then we might be able to use a version of the same spell to trap or even destroy it. Something this man did drove the creature out of this house before it was ready to go. He forced it to leave behind its goody bag and to leave without gutting his body. It's the first weakness we've seen in this thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Franklin won't like bringing in a witch. Neither will the locals. If I force everyone to bring this wiccan in, and it doesn't work or she talks to the media, then the next time you see me I won't be an FBI Agent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Aren't you supposed to try every angle to solve this crime? Isn't that your job?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The FBI doesn't use witches, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "How the hell did you get me in then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forrester had already brought you in on the case. All I had to do was stand up to Marks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And Franklin," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "I outrank Franklin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then why is he so snotty?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It seems to be a natural talent of his."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want to get you fired, Bradley." I went to the overturned desk and started opening the drawers. There was a gun cabinet in the living room. Most people who had a cabinet full of them kept one for personal protection.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you looking for?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened the larger bottom drawer, and there it was. "Come here, Bradley."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He came to peer into the drawer. The gun was a 9 mm Smith and Wesson. It lay on the side of the drawer where it had fallen when the desk tipped over. Bradley stared down at the gun. "Maybe it's not loaded. Maybe he had the ammo locked in the living room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I touch it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted it, and just by the weight I was pretty sure it was loaded, but it wasn't a gun I was familiar with, so I popped the clip and showed it to Bradley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Full," he said, voice soft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Full." I slid the clip back inside the gun, hitting it sharply with the palm of my hand to make it click. "He had a loaded 9 mm in his desk, but he grabbed salt and his book of shadows. He didn't waste time grabbing for the gun. He either knew what the thing was, or he sensed something about it and knew the gun wouldn't work, and that the spell would." I raised the gun up so that Bradley looked at it, the barrel pointed at the ceiling. "The spell worked, Bradley, We need to know what it was, and the only way to know that is to get a witch in here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't you take the book and just show her pictures?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What if the position of the book is important? What if there are clues to the spell in the circle itself? I don't practice this kind of ritual magic, Bradley. For all I know if you get someone in here, they may be able to sense something that I can't. Do you really want to take the chance that pictures and just seeing the book in their own home will be just as good as seeing it here like this?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're asking me to risk my career."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am asking you to risk your career," I said, "but I'm also asking you to not risk any more innocent lives. Do you really want to see this done to another couple, another family?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you be so sure that this is the key?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure, but it's the closest thing we've seen to a break in this case. I'd hate to lose it because of career jitters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not just that, Anita. If we use anything more exotic than psychics and we fail, then the entire unit could be disbanded."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I placed the gun in his hand. He stared at it. "I trust you to do the right thing, Bradley. That's why you're one of the good guys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "And to think I blackmailed Marks to get you back on the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You knew I was a pain in the ass when you fought to get me back on the case. It's one of my many charms."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That earned me a weak smile. He was still holding the gun flat across his hand. His fingers tightened around it. "You know any witches in the area?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I grinned at him. "No, but I bet Ted does." I shook my head. "I've never hugged an FBI agent, but I'm tempted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made him smile, but his eyes stayed cautious, unhappy. I was asking a lot from him. I touched his arm. "I wouldn't ask you to bring in a witch if I didn't think it was our best shot. I wouldn't ask just on a whim."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave me a long look. "I know. You are one of the least whimsical people I've ever met."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would say you should see me when I'm not neck deep in corpses, but it doesn't really matter. I don't get much lighter than this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've checked the cases you've helped the St. Louis PD solve, Anita. Gruesome stuff. How old are you now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at the question then answered it. "Twenty-six."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you been helping the police?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About four years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Bureau switches its agents off the serial killer shit about every two years. Whether they want to transfer or not. Then after a break, they can come back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think I need a break?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everyone burns out eventually, Anita, even you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, I'm thinking about a vacation when I get home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "That's good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him. "Do I look like I need a break?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen it before in other agents' eyes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seen what?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like your eyes are a cup, and every horror you see is another drop added. Your eyes are full of the things you've seen, the things you've clone. Get out while there's still some room for things that don't bleed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is damn poetic for an FBI agent."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One friend stayed with it until he had a heart attack."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think I'm a little young for that," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Another friend ate his gun."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other. "I'm not the suicidal type."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I also don't want to see you in jail."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes widened. "Whoa. I do not know what you're talking about."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The state department confirmed Otto Jefferies is a retired government worker, but they couldn't access the rest of his file at the present time. I've got a friend at the state department with a level two secret clearance. He couldn't access Otto Jefferies' files either. He's a total black out, which means he'sa spook of some kind. You do not want to get involved with the spooks, Anita. If they try to recruit you, say no. Don't try to find out who Otto really is, or what he did. Don't get nosy or you'll end up in a hole somewhere. Just work with him, leave him alone, and move on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sound like you're talking from personal experience," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I'm not going to talk about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You brought it up," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you just enough to get your attention, I hope. Just trust me on this. Stay the fuck away from these people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "It's okay, Bradley. I don't like ... Otto. And he hates women, so don't worry. I don't think it would occur to him to try and recruit me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good." He put the gun back in the desk drawer and closed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides," I said, "what would the top secret set want with me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and it was a look that I wasn't used to getting. The look said, I was being naive. "Anita, you can raise the dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can think of a half a dozen uses for that one talent alone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Prisoner dies in interrogation. Doesn't matter. Raise him up again. A world leader is assassinated. We need a few days to get our troops ready, raise the leader for a few days. Give us time to control the panic, or stop the revolution."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Zombies are not alive, Bradley. They couldn't pass for a country's leader."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"From a distance, for two or three days, don't even try and say you couldn't pull that off."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't do it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even if it meant that hundreds of lives could be saved, or hundreds of Americans could be evacuated in safety."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "I ... I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No matter how good the cause seems at the beginning, Anita, eventually it won't be. Eventually, when you're so far in you can't see daylight, they'll ask things of you that you won't want to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was hugging myself again, which irritated me. No one had approached me to do anything on an international level. Olaf thought I was good for only one thing and that did not include helping the government. But it did make me wonder how Edward had met him. Edward was spooky, but was he a spook?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at Bradley's so serious face. "I'll be careful." Then I had a thought. "Did someone approach you about me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was thinking about offering you a job with us." I raised eyebrows at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed. "Yeah, after looking through your file, it was decided that you're too independent, too much a wild card. It was decided that you not thrive in a bureaucratic setting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got that right, but I am flattered you thought of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face went back to serious, and there were lines in his face that I hadn't seen before. It made him look forty plus. Most of the time he didn't. "Your file got flagged, Anita. It got moved up the line. I don't know where to or who asked for it, but there is government work out there for the independent wild card if they have specialized enough skills."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth, closed it, and finally said, "I'd say you were joking but you're not, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I wish I was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had said that he wouldn't have brought Olaf in if he'd known I was coming. It made it sound like Olaf had been invited in, not volunteered, but I'd ask Edward. I'd make sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you for telling me, Bradley. I don't know much about this stuff but I know you're taking a chance telling me at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I had to tell you, Anita. You see it was me that pulled your file in the first place. I was the one that pushed to get you invited in. I brought you to someone's attention. For that I am heartily sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's okay, Bradley. You didn't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small shake of his head, and the look on his face was bitter. "But I should have."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know what to say to that. It turned out I didn't have to say anything. Bradley walked out of the room. I waited a second or two, then followed him out. But I couldn't shake the unease. He'd meant to scare me, and he'd succeeded. It was all Big Brother watching and paranoia. He already had me wondering if Olaf had invited himself, or even if Edward could have been asked to recruit me. It wouldn't surprise me that Edward worked for the government, at least part time. He took money from anyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would have seemed silly if I hadn't seen the look on Bradley's face. If he hadn't told me about my file. He said file, like everyone had a file. Maybe they did. But someone had requested my file. I had a sudden image of my life, my crimes, all printed in neat type crossing one shadowy desk after another until it reached, where? Or would the question be who?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blake, Anita Blake. It even sounded funny. Of course, the federal government has never been known for its sense of humor.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_37" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36479525" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36479528" class="calibre7"></a>35 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">EDWARD LET ME drive his Hummer to the hospital. He stayed behind to wait for the witch. She was Donna's friend so he'd play Ted and hold her hand through the crime scene. It would be her very first crime scene. Talk about being thrown in at the deep end to sink or swim. Even I'd had a gentler introduction to police work than this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf stayed to commune with the bodies. Fine with me. I did not want to be in a car, or any small confined space with Olaf without Edward along to chaperone. I think the police and the Feds would have gladly given him to me for the ride, though. All he'd really done was confirm my supposition that the killer would not have willingly left his trophies behind, though Olaf knew less about magic than I did. He didn't know why the killer left. I was the only one with a scenario for that, and even I would be relieved if the wicca practitioner seconded my opinion. If she didn't, then we were truly out of guesses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact, almost no one wanted to go with me. Franklin thought I was nuts. What did I mean, the survivors weren't survivors, but the living dead? Bradley wasn't willing to leave Franklin as the ranking agent on site. The geology maps were on the way, and I don't think he wanted Franklin in charge of the search. Marks wouldn't leave the scene to the Feds, and he also thought I was nuts. Ramirez and one uniform followed me in an unmarked car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't really think they'd find the monster. There had been no track. No tracks meant either it could fly or it dematerialized. Either way they weren't going to find it, not on foot, not with maps. So I felt free to go to the hospital.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another reason to go into Albuquerque was that Edward had found me a name. A man who was known as a brujo, a witch. Donna had only given "Ted" the name on the condition it would not be used to harm the man. She'd only been given the name on the strict understanding that no harm would come to him. The one who gave up the name didn't want the brujo to come back and hurt her. He would work evil spells for money, as well as personal vengeance. If you could prove in court that he performed real magic for nefarious purpose, it was an automatic death sentence. His name was Nicandro Baco, and he was supposed to be a necromancer. If he were, he'd be the first one, other than me, that I'd ever met. The name came with one other warning. Be careful of him. He was much more dangerous than he looked. Just what I needed -- a necromancer with an attitude. Oh, wait, I was a necromancer with an attitude. If he got shitty with me, we'd see who was the bigger fish. Was that a chip on my shoulder or overconfidence? We'd see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, and Bernardo went with me. He sat in the passenger seat slumped down until the seatbelt I'd insisted he wear cut across his neck. His handsome face was set in a scowl, arms crossed over his chest. I think he'd have crossed his legs if he'd had room. Words like <em class="calibre9">closed-off, brooding, </em>came to mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shadows stretched across the road, though there were no trees or buildings to cast them. It was like the shadows just spilled out of the earth itself to lie across the road like a promise of the night to come. If you went by the watch on my wrist, it was early evening. If you went by the level of daylight, it was late afternoon. We had about three hours of daylight left. I drove through the gathering shadows with a feeling of urgency pressing against me. I wanted to be at the hospital before dark. I didn't know why, and I didn't question it. We were being followed by a police car. Surely, they could fix the ticket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was frightening how quickly and smoothly the car went over eighty without me noticing it. There was something about the roads and the way they spilled out and out across the empty landscape that made lower speeds seem like crawling. I kept it at a solid eighty, and Ramirez kept up with me. He seemed to be the only one who believed me. Maybe he felt the urgency, too. The silence in the car wasn't exactly companionable, but it wasn't uncomfortable either. Besides, I had enough problems without playing crying shoulder for one of Edward's sociopathic friends.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo broke the silence. "I saw you and that detective getting it on there in the grass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. He was watching me with hostile eyes. I think he was trying to pick a fight, though I didn't know why. "We were not 'getting it on'," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Looked pretty cozy to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jealous?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face hardened, thinning into angry lines. "So you do sleep around. Just not with us bad guys."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "It was a comforting hug, not that it's any of your business."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't think you were the comforting hug type."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So this case is getting to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hear that," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. His face was turned away, only a thin rim of profile showing through his hair like the moon just before it goes dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned back to the road. If he didn't want eye contact, fine with me. "I thought you were avoiding the pictures and forensic stuff," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been here two weeks longer than you have. I've seen the pictures. I've seen the bodies. I don't need to see it all again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What exactly did you and Edward quarrel about today?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Quarrel," he said and gave a low chuckle. "Yeah, you could say we quarreled."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know why the hell I'm here. Tell me what or who to shoot, and I'll do it. I'll even guard bodies if the price is right. But there's nothing to shoot at. Nothing but dead bodies. I don't know shit about magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were a licensed bounty hunter that specialized in preternatural critters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was with Edward when he cleaned out a nest of lycanthropes in Arizona. Fifteen of them. We mowed them down with machine guns and grenades." He had an almost wistful tone to his voice. Ah, the good ol' days. "Before that I'd killed two rogue lycanthropes, but afterwards I got a lot of calls for this shit. I took the ones that were basically just hits. The only difference was that the vic wasn't human. Those I could handle, but I am not a detective. Call me in when the kill is in sight, and I'll be there, but not this. This fucking waiting around, looking for clues. Who the hell looks for clues? We're assassins, not Sherlock Holmes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shifted in his seat, and struggled to sit up straighter, arms still holding himself tight. He did the headshake to get the hair back away from his face. The headshake is a very feminine gesture. A man has to be muy macho for it not to be. Bernardo managed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe he assumed that since you helped him out with the shapeshifters that you'd be useful with this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He was wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Then go home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at him. I could see most of his profile, and it was a nice one. "You owe him a favor, too?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mind me asking what sort of favor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Same as you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You killed one of his other backups?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, and had to run his hands through his hair to slide it back from his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Want to talk about it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" He looked at me, and his face, for one of the few times, wasn't teasing, but serious, even solemn. He looked less handsome without the smile and glow in his eyes, but he also seemed more real. Being real will get me into trouble faster than any amount of charm. "Do you want to talk about how you killed Harley?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then why did you ask?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You seem uptight. I thought it might help to talk, or is that just a girl thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, and it almost reached his eyes. "I think it's a girl thing because I don't want to talk about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, let's talk about something else."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" He was staring out the far window now, one shoulder pressed against the glass. The road went down between two hills, and the world was suddenly dark gray. We were literally running out of daylight. But this last attack had most definitely been a daylight attack. So why was I so worried about the coming night? Maybe it was just years of hunting vampires, where darkness meant that we humans no longer had any advantage. I hoped it was just old habits, but the fluttering in my stomach didn't think that was it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have you known Edward?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"About six years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me then. "What's wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've known him for five. I was hoping you'd known him longer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned at me. "Wanting to pump me for information, eh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned in the seatbelt until most of his body was facing me, one leg drawn up into the seat. "Let me pump you, and you can pump me all you want." His voice had dropped a notch or two. His head was to one side, the hair sweeping across the seat like black fur.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "You're horny, and I'm available. That isn't very flattering, Bernardo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved back in his seat, sweeping his hair back to his side of the seat. "Now that is a girl thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Complicating things, needing the sex to be about something more than sex."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I know a guy or two that make it just as complicated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't sound happy with him or them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did Edward call you before Olaf or after?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After, but you're changing the subject."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not. Edward is an expert on people. He knows who to call for any given situation, for any kill. Olaf makes sense. I make sense. You don't make sense. He knows that this isn't your type of crime."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You lost me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward encouraged me to sleep with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me, shocked, I think. Nice to know he could be. "Edward match making. We are talking about the same Edward, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe Donna has changed him," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing changes Edward. He's a mountain. He's just there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "True, but he wasn't encouraging me to pick out curtains with you. He said, and I quote, 'What you need is a nice uncomplicated fuck.' "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo's eyebrows went up into his hair. "Edward said that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, he did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was looking at me now. I could feel his gaze on me even while watching the road. It wasn't sexual now. It was intense. I had his attention. "Are you saying that Edward brought me on to tempt you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Maybe. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe it's just a coincidence. But he's not happy with my choice of lovers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"First, there are no coincidences when it comes to Edward. Second, who could you possibly be sleeping with that would bother Edward? He wouldn't care if you were doing your dog."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I ignored the last comment, because I couldn't think of a comeback for it. Though notice I didn't disagree. Usually, Edward just wanted to know if you could shoot. Anything else was not important. "I'll answer your question, if you answer mine first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Try me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You may look like the cover boy for the Native American GQ, but there's no sense of you coming from a different culture?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too white for you?" and his voice was angry. I'd touched the chip on his shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, my mother's family is Mexican American, and you have a sense of their culture when you interact with them. My father's family is German, and they'll say things, do things that are sort of European or have a foreign flavor to them. You don't seem to have any specific culture or background. You talk like generic middle America, like television or something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and he was angry now. "My mother was white. My father was Indian. I'm told he died before I was born. She gave me up at birth. No one wanted a little mixed baby, so I went from one foster home to another. When I was eighteen, I joined the army. They found out I could shoot. I killed things for my country for a few years. Then I went freelance. And here I am." His voice had grown increasingly bitter until it almost hurt to hear it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Saying I was sorry would have been insulting. Saying I understood would have been a lie. Thanks for answering the question seemed wrong, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing to say?" he asked. "Shocked? Sorry for me? Give me a little pity sex."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him then. "It someone has sex with you, it isn't out of pity, and you damn well know it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you don't want to have sex with me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not because of your ethnicity, or lack thereof, or your background. I've got two guys waiting for me at home. Two is one too many. Three would be ridiculous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why doesn't Edward like them?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"One's a werewolf and the other is a vampire." My words were bland, but I watched his face long enough to see the reaction. He gaped at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He finally closed his mouth, and said, "You're the Executioner, scourge of the undead. How can you be doing a vampire?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure I can answer that question, even to myself. But currently, I'm not doing him at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you think the werewolf was human? Was he trying to pass?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At first, but not for long. I knew what he was when I took him to my bed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let out a low whistle. "Edward hates the monsters. But I didn't think he'd give a damn if one of his backups slept with them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He cares. I don't know why, but he does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So he thought what? That one night with me would change your religion? Make you swear off the monsters?" He was staring at me now, studying my face. "I've heard that shapeshifters can change the shape of their bodies at will. Is that true?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some of them can," I said. We were in the outskirts of Albuquerque. Strip malls and fast food restaurants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can your boyfriend?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can he change the shape of all his body, at will?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the blush roll up my neck into my face and couldn't stop it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo laughed. "I guess he can."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No comment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still laughing softly to himself, a very masculine chuckle. "Is your vampire an old one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Four hundred years and counting," I said. We'd left the strip malls behind and turned into a residential area. We were coming up to the first landmark on the directions Edward had given me. We'd used up nearly an hour of daylight. I almost drove past the turnoff to Nicandro Baco's place, but if I was right, if the thing we were dealing with was another type of undead from any that I'd ever heard of, then another necromancer might be nice to have around. For all I knew, this type of undead was a regional specialty, and Baco would know more than I did. I turned, checking the rearview to see that Ramirez was still behind me. We were actually all going the speed limit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you read the directions to me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't answer, just picked the piece of paper up off the dashboard, and began reading off street names. "You're safe on the directions for a little bit. Let's get back to our little talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "Do we have to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me get this straight," Bernardo said. "You've been shacking up with a shapeshifter that has such fine control of his body that he can make any one part of it ... bigger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or smaller," I said. I was counting streetlights, under my breath. Didn't want to miss the turn. We had time to see this guy and get to the hospital before dark, but not if we got badly lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No man makes things smaller during sex. I don't care what he is, he's still male."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. I was not going to discuss Richard's size with Bernardo. The only person I had discussed it with had been Ronnie, and that had been over much giggling, while she shared embarrassing facts about her boyfrieind Louie. It has been my experience that women tell more intimate details to their friends than men do. Men may brag more, but women will talk the nitty gritty and share the experience more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So, where was I?" Bernardo said. "Ah, you're doing this shapeshifter that has such fine control of his body that he can make any part bigger or smaller at will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I squirmed in the seat, but finally nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo smiled happily. "And you're doing a vampire that has been having sex for over four hundred years." He suddenly sounded faux-British. "Can one assume that he is well-skilled by now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blush that had been fading came back with a burn. I'd almost have welcomed darkness to hide behind. "Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit, girlfriend, I may be good, but I'm not that good. I am just a poor mortal boy. I can't compete with the lord of the undead and the wolfman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were in a section of town that seemed nearly deserted. Gas station with bars on the windows and graffiti spread across everything like a contagious disease. The storefront across from it had boarded up windows and more graffiti. The afternoon was still thick with reflected sunlight, but somehow the light didn't quite reach the street, as if there was something here that kept it at bay. The skin on my back crept so hard, I jumped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. My mouth was suddenly dry. I knew we had arrived before he called out, "There it is, Los Duendos, the dwarves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The air was thick and oppressive with the weight of magic. Death magic. Either they had just killed something to gain power for a spell or they were actively working with the dead right at this very moment. Since the sun was still up, that was a trick. Most animators couldn't raise the dead until after dark. Theoretically, I am powerful enough to raise the dead at high noon, but I don't. I was told once that the only reason I couldn't do it was that I believed I couldn't do it. But Nicandro Baco didn't seem to share my doubts. Maybe I wouldn't be the biggest fish after all. Now I got an attack of the doubts. Too late to get Edward down here for backup. If Baco got a whiff of police, he'd either run, be uncooperative, or try to hurt us. His power breathed along my body, and I was still sitting in the car. What was he going to be like in person? Bad. How bad? As the old saying goes, only one way to find out.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_38" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36480070" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36480072" class="calibre7"></a>36 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I'D PULLED INTO a deserted parking lot about two blocks down and around the corner from the bar. Ramirez had pulled in beside me, and he and the uniform, Officer Rigby, walked over to us. Rigby was medium height, well built, and moved like he worked out. He had an easy confidence, and a ready smile that went all the way to his eyes. He was entirely too comfortable in his own skin, as if nothing really bad had ever touched him. He lacked entirely that air that most policemen have of having been ridden hard and put up wet. He looked older than I was, but his eyes were younger, and I resented that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez had spent his drive time checking out Nicandro Baco, alias Nicky Baco. He was suspected of murders, but witnesses had a strange way of disappearing or forgetting what they'd seen. He was associated with a local biker gang, ah, club. Biker gangs now preferred the more politically correct term of club, according to Ramirez. The local "club" was called Los Lobos. "Not to be confused with the music group," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd blinked at him. Then I got the joke. "Oh, yeah, Los Lobos, the music group."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me. "Are you all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. Even two blocks away I could feel a touch of Baco's magic. I was betting if someone took the time, they'd find spells, charms, wards, set up here and there in the surrounding area. I didn't think he was aware of me yet. I think the only reason I'd sensed him so strongly was he was in the middle of a spell. The charms were scattered around the neighborhood to give off a certain unease. He might have literally driven the other businesses out of business. Illegal, as well as unethical. Of course, why he'd want to destroy the entire economy of the area surrounding his bar was a mystery to me. I'd worry about it later. Murder and mayhem first. Possible real estate scam later. Some days you just have to prioritize.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Lobos are small and local, but they've got a bad rep," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How bad?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Drug running, murder, murder for hire, assault, assault with a deadly, attempted murder, rape, kidnapping."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo said, "Kidnapping?" As if the other crimes were to be expected but not the last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez looked at him, and his eyes went from friendly to cool. He didn't like Bernardo for some reason. "We think they abducted a teenage girl, but nobody ever surfaced, and the only witness just saw her being dragged into a van that looked like one that their leader, Roland Sanchez, owned at the time. But a lot of people own gray vans."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you had a lot of disappearing teenage girls?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our share, but no, we haven't noticed a pattern of young women being abducted by the gang. I'm not saying they won't do it, but they're not making a habit of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glad to hear it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez smiled. "You're armed, and ... " He handed me a slender cellphone. "Press this button and it'll call this phone." He held up a matching phone. "Rigby and I will come running with backup."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes flicked to Rigby, who actually tipped his hat at me. "At your service, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ma'am? Either he was five years younger than he looked, or he used ma'am for all women. I turned from his peaceful eyes to Ramirez. His eyes were kind but they weren't peaceful. He'd seen too much of life for true tranquility. I liked his eyes better. "You're not going to try and argue me out of just Bernardo and I walking into the bar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We suspect Baco of using magic to kill people. That is an automatic death sentence. If he gets a whiff of police, then he'll clam up and start asking for a lawyer. If you want information from him, you'll have to play ordinary citizen. Now, if you planned to go in there alone without Bernardo or some man with you, then I'd argue."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "I can take care of myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "In the world that this gang runs in, women do not exist except through men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My frown deepened. "You've lost me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All women are either someone's mother, daughter, wife, sister, girlfriend, lover. They would not know what the hell to do with you, Anita. Go in as Bernardo's girlfriend." He had his hand up, stopping me from interrupting before I could even open my mouth and try. "Trust me on this. You need to have some sort of status that they can grasp quickly and easily. Flashing your animator's license is too close to a badge. No woman in her right mind would just wander in there for a drink. You have to be something." He glanced at Bernardo not like he was happy. "I'd go in with you as your boyfriend, but like it or not, I look like a cop, or so I've been told."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. I wasn't sure what it was about most policemen, but after a while they really did look like cops, even off duty sometimes. It was partially the clothes, partially some indefinable air of authority or bad attitude or something. Whatever "it" was, Ramirez had it. Rigby was in uniform, and I wouldn't have taken him as backup anyway. He made me nervous with his air of contentment. Policemen should never be that well pleased with themselves. It means they haven't had much experience yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Bernardo's smirking face. "Agreed, under protest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," Ramirez said, but he was looking at Bernardo, too, like he didn't like the look on his face. He held a finger up near the taller man's face. "You get out of line in there with Anita, and I will personally make you sorry for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo's eyes drifted from amused to cool. It reminded me of the way Edward's eyes lost emotion until they were empty and somehow harsh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped between them, enough to get both of them looking at me. "I can take care of myself when it comes to Bernardo, Detective Ramirez. Thanks anyway." I'd used his title to remind Bernardo who and what he was. Even Edward treaded soft around the cops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez's face had closed down, empty. "Suit yourself, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I realized that he thought I'd used his title because I was angry with him. Shit. Why was I always ass deep in male egos in the middle of any given crisis?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's okay, Hernando. I just like to remind everyone that I'm a big girl." I touched his arm lightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and his eyes softened. "Okay." That was male short hand for apology and apology accepted. Though truthfully if one of the parties involved hadn't been female, the short hand would have been shorter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped away from both of them and changed the subject. "Amazing how many bad guys and monsters will talk to me and not the police."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, face still serious. "Amazing. That's one word for it." The look he gave me was so studied, so searching, that I wondered if he'd been checking me out as well as Baco.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't ask. I didn't really want to know. But he was right about Baco. If he was what people said, then he wouldn't want the police anywhere near his homes or his work area. They were not kidding about the automatic death penalty. The last execution in this country of a spell caster had been two months ago. It had been in California, which is not a death penalty state for any other crime.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd tried and convicted a sorcerer, or would that be sorceress, of trafficking with the demonic. She'd used a demon to kill her sister so she'd inherit the parents' estate. They suspected she'd also killed her parents, but they couldn't prove that. And who cared? They could only kill her once. I'd read some of the trial transcript. She'd been guilty. I had no doubt on that point. But it had been three months from arrest, to conviction, to the carrying out of the sentence. It was unheard of in the American justice system. Hell, it usually takes longer than that to get a hearing date, let alone a full-blown trial. But even California had learned its lesson a few years back. They'd arrested a sorcerer for very similar crimes. They'd tried to give the sorcerer the usual wait for a trial because some congressman or other was arguing that the death penalty shouldn't be allowed even in cases of magical assassination.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That sorcerer had called a greater demon in his cell. It killed every guard on the cellblock, and some of the prisoners. He'd finally been tracked down with the help of a coven of white wiccans. The death total had been forty-two, forty-three, something like that. He was killed during the capture attempt. He took thirty slugs, which meant people had emptied their clips into his body once it went down. For none of the police to get caught in the crossfire, they must have been standing over him, pointing down. Overkill, you bet, but I didn't blame them. They never did find all the body parts of the guards at the prison.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">New Mexico was a death penalty state. I was betting that they would be able to beat California's three months turn-around from arrest to completion of sentence. I mean, after all, in this state they might actually put you to death for a good old-fashioned murder. Add magic to it, and they'd be scattering your ashes to the wind faster than you could say Beelzebub.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The actual method of execution is the same for everyone. America does not allow burning at the stake for any crime. But after you're dead, they burn the body to ash if you were convicted of a crime involving magic. Then they scatter the ashes, usually into running water. Very traditional.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are parts of Europe where it's still legal to burn a "witch" at the stake. There's more than one reason that I don't travel outside the country much.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, are you still with us?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked. "Sorry, just thinking about the last execution in California. I don't blame Baco for being worried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez shook his head. "Me, either. Be very careful. These are bad people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita knows about bad people," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two men looked at each other, and again I got that hint that Ramirez didn't like him. Bernardo seemed to be teasing him. Did they know each other?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I decided to ask. "Do you guys know each other?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both shook their heads. "Why?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys seem to have some sort of personal shit going on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo smiled then, and Ramirez looked uncomfortable. "It's not personal with me," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rigby turned away, coughing. If I hadn't known better, I'd have said he was covering a laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez ignored him, all attention for Bernardo. "I know Anita knows how to handle herself around the bad guys, but a knife blade in the back doesn't care how good you are. The Lobos pride themselves on using blades instead of guns."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guns are for sissies," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the black suit jacket on over the navy blue polo shirt. If I buttoned two buttons, the jacket hid the Firestar in front and still left me plenty of room to reach for it, and the Browning. In fact the slender cell phone swinging in the right side pocket was more noticeable than the guns. "I just love taking a gun to a knife fight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo had thrown a black short-sleeved dress shirt over his white T-shirt. It fanned in back and covered the Beretta 10 mil on his hip. "Me, too," he said and smiled. It was a fierce smile, and I realized that this may have been the first time in weeks that he was going up against something flesh and blood and killable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going in for information, not to do the OK Corral. You do understand that?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're the boss," he said, but I didn't like the way his eyes looked. They were anticipatory, eager.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd felt paranoid this morning when I slipped the knife in its spine sheath. Now I moved my head a little back and forth feeling the handle against my neck. It was comforting. I almost always carried the wrist sheaths and their matching knives, but the spine sheath was optional. One minute you're paranoid and packing too much hardware, the next you're scared, and under-armed. Life's like that, or my life's like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know what los duendos are?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo said it meant the dwarves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "But around here it's folklore. They're small beings that live in caves and steal things. But they're supposed to be angels that got left suspended between Heaven and Hell during Lucifer's revolt. So many angels were leaving Heaven that God slammed the gates shut and los duendos got trapped outside of Heaven. They were suspended in limbo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't they just go to Hell?" Bernardo asked, It was a good question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez shrugged. "The story doesn't say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Rigby standing behind Ramirez. He was standing so easy, ready, prepared like a grown-up Boy Scout. He didn't seem worried about anything, It made me nervous. We were about to go into a bar that was thick with bikers, bad guys. There was a necromancer inside so powerful that it made my skin crawl from blocks away. The rest of us looked confident, but it was confidence born of having been there and done that and survived. Rigby's confidence struck me as false, not false confidence, but based on a false assumption. I couldn't know for sure without asking, but I was betting Rigby had never really been in any situation where he thought he might not come out the other side. There was a softness to him despite the lean muscles. I'd take a few less muscles and more depth to the eyes any day. I hoped that Ramirez didn't have to come in with Rigby as his only backup. But I didn't say it out loud. Everyone loses their cherry sometime, somewhere. If things went wrong, tonight might be Rigby's night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you tell us that little story for a reason, Hernando? I mean you don't think that Baco or this biker gang are los Duendos?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No, I just thought you might want to know. It says something about Baco to name his bar after fallen angels."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened the driver's side door of the Hummer. Bernardo took the hint and went for the passenger side door. "Not fallen angels, Hernando, just caught in limbo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hernando leaned into the open window of the car. "But they're not in Heaven anymore, are they?" With that last cryptic comment he stepped back and let me raise the window. He and Rigby watched us drive off. They looked sort of forlorn standing there in the abandoned, broken parking lot. Or maybe it was just me feeling forlorn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Bernardo. "Don't kill anyone, okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slid back in his seat, snuggling against the leather. He looked more relaxed than I'd seen him in hours. "If they try to kill us?" I sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we defend ourselves," I said. "See, I knew you'd see things my way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't start the fight," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me with eager brown eyes. "Can I finish it?" I looked back at the road searching for a parking space. Whatever spell Baco had been working was over. The atmosphere was a little easier to breathe. But there was still something in the air like close lightning waiting to strike. "Yeah, we can finish it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started humming under his breath. I think it was the theme from "The Magnificent Seven." To quote an overused movie line, I had a bad feeling about this.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_39" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36480435" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36480437" class="calibre7"></a>37 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">BY THE TIME I found a parking space, Bernardo and I had a plan. I was an out of town necromancer wanting to talk shop with one of the only other necromancers I'd ever heard of. If it hadn't been so damn close to the truth, it would have been a lousy cover story. Even being the truth, almost, it sounded weak. But we didn't have all day, and besides, I don't think being sneaky was a strong suit for either of us. We were both more comfortable with the bust-the-door-down-and-start-shooting school, than the concoct-a-good-cover-story-and-infiltrate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo reached his hand out for me just before we crossed the street, I frowned at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waggled his hand at me. "Come on, Anita, play fair." He was holding his right hand out to me. I stared at the offered hand for a heartbeat, but finally took it. His fingers slid around my hand a little slower, and a little more proprietarily than necessary, but I could live with it. Lucky for us that I was right-handed, and Bernardo was left-handed. We could hold hands and not compromise either of our gun hands. Usually, I was the only one armed when I was cuddling, so it was only my gun hand we had to worry about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've dated men that I couldn't walk hand in hand with, like an awkward rhythm between us. Bernardo was not one of those men. He slowed his pace to let me catch up to his longer legs, until he realized I was a step ahead of him, tugging on his hand. I have a lot of tall friends. No one ever complains that I can't keep up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door to the bar was black and blended so well with the building's facade that you almost missed it. Bernardo opened the door for me, and I let him. It might blow our cover to argue over who got to hold the door for who. Though if he had been my real boyfriend, we'd have had the discussion. Ah, well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The minute I stepped inside the bar, no, the second I stepped inside the bar, I knew we were not going to blend in. So many things had already gone wrong. We were not so much overdressed as wrongly dressed. If Bernardo had ditched the black dress shirt and just worn the white T-shirt, and if it hadn't looked fresh out of the box, then he might have mingled. I was <em class="calibre9">so </em>the only suit jacket in the room. But even the polo shirt and jeans seemed a little much beside what some of the women were wearing. Can you say, short-shorts?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A girl near us, and I meant girl -- if she was eighteen, I'd eat something icky -- looked at me with hostile eyes. She had long brown hair that swung past her shoulders. The hair was clean and shiny even in the dim light. Her makeup was light but expertly applied. She should have been deciding who to take to prom. Instead, she was wearing a black leather bra with metal studs on it and matching shorts that looked like they'd been painted over her narrow hips. A pair of those clunky platform high-heels completed the look. Those platform shoes had been ugly in the seventies and eighties, and they were still ugly two decades later, even if they were back in style.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was hanging all over a guy that had to be thirty years or more her senior. His hair and ragged beard were gray. At first glance you'd think he was fat, but he was fat the way an offensive lineman was fat, flesh with muscle under it. His eyes were hidden behind small round sunglasses, even though the bar was cast in permanent twilight. He sat at the table closest to the door, big hands resting on the wood. He was totally at rest, but you still got a sense of how very large he was, how physically imposing. The girl was slender and shorter than I was. I hoped she was his daughter, but doubted it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood, and a wave of energy moved off of him in a curling, almost visible roil of power. It was suddenly hard to breathe, and it wasn't the cigarette smoke rolling like a low fog through the room. I'd come in expecting to meet a necromancer. I had not expected a werewolf. I couldn't be a hundred percent sure of the type of animal, but call it a hunch -- los lobos -- had to be werewolves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked out over that room full of people, and felt their power raise like invisible hackles. Bernardo put his right hand on my shoulder and drew me towards the bar, slowly. It took almost all the restraint I had not to reach for one of the guns. They had not offered us violence. They probably always did this show to unwanted tourists. Almost anyone would get the message and leave. Leaving actually sounded like a really good idea. Unfortunately, we had business, and a really good threat display was not reason enough to stop us. Pity. Because they would not like the fact that we didn't leave. What if this afternoon's little display wasn't the norm? What if they were trying to chase us away because something illegal was going down? Worse and worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The long wooden bar had cleared out as we moved towards it. Fine with me. I didn't want to be outflanked. The bartender was a woman, surprise, and a dwarf, ah, little person. I couldn't see over the bar, but she had to have something she was standing on. She had short, thick hair, dark, shot through with strands of white. Her face was the typical rough square, but her eyes were as hard as any I've ever seen. Her face was heavily lined not with age, but with wear and tear. One eyebrow was bisected by a heavy white scar. All she needed was a sign above her head that said, "I've had a hard life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want?" she asked. Her tone matched the rest of her, harsh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I half expected Bernardo to answer, but his attention was all for the room and the growing air of hostility. "We're looking for Nicky Baco," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes never flickered. "Never heard of him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. Her answer had been automatic. She didn't even have to think about it. I could have asked to see anyone in the room and the answer would have been the same. I lowered my voice, though I knew most of the things in the room would hear even the barest whisper. "I'm a necromancer. I heard that Baco is one, too. I've met a lot of zombie raisers, but never another necromancer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shook her head. "Don't know what you're talking about." She started to rub the top of the bar with a stained rag. She wasn't even looking at me now, as if I'd become something totally without interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd stall for a while, then they'd get impatient and try to kick us out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unless we were willing to start shooting people, they'll succeed. When in doubt, tell the truth. Not my usual ploy, but hey, I'll try anything once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm Anita Blake," and that was all I got out before her gaze snapped upward, and she really looked at me for the first time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Prove it," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to reach inside the jacket for my ID. I heard the gun click underneath the bar, as she pulled the hammer back. Just from the sound I'd say it was an old fashioned shotgun, sawed-off or it wouldn't have fit under the bar</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Slowly," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught Bernardo's movement out of the corner of my eye. Turning towards us, maybe going for a gun. "It's okay, Bernardo. It's under control."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't think he believed me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "Please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't say please often. Bernardo hesitated but finally turned back to watch the gathering werewolves. He hissed, "Hurry up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did what the lady with the shotgun pointed at my chest said, I moved very, very slowly, and handed her my ID.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lay it on the bar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I laid it on the bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hands flat on the bar. Lean into it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bar top was sticky, but I kept my hands on it and leaned into it, in a sort of push-up position. She could have just asked me to assume the position It was a leg width away from it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Him, too," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo had heard her. "No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something passed through her eyes that would have made Edward proud. I knew she'd do it. "Either do what she says or get the fuck out of here," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved so he could watch the room at large, and see me and the lady behind the bar. He was beside the outer door. One quick move and he could be out in the afternoon sunlight. He didn't go for the door. He looked at me. His eyes flicked to the woman behind the bar. I think he saw in her face what I'd seen because he sighed enough that his shoulders slumped. He shook his head, but he moved towards the long bar. He moved stiffly, as if each small movement pained him. His posture, his face, all screamed that he didn't like doing this, but he leaned beside me against the bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Legs further apart," she said. "Lean into it like you want to see that pretty face in the polish."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard Bernardo take a hissing breath, but he spread his legs and leaned close enough to see the varnish on the scarred bar. "Can I just say now that this is a bad idea?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman opened the ID on the bar top, one hand still hidden under the bar. They had the shotgun attached underneath the bar somehow. I wondered what other surprises they had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you want to see Nicky?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hadn't told me to stop leaning, so I didn't. "I told the truth. I want to talk to another necromancer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you tell me who you were up front?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I work with the cops sometimes. I thought it might make you nervous." I had to roll my eyes up to see her face. I was rewarded with a smile. It looked almost awkward on her harsh features, but it was a start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you want to talk to another necromancer?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let the truth spill out of my mouth without concentrating on the fact that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I planned to stop before I'd told all of it. I mean Nicky Baco was a necromancer, and if necromancy was involved in the killings ... So only part of the truth until I knew whether he was a bad guy. "I've got a little problem that involves the dead. I wanted a second opinion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laughed then, a harsh sound like the caw of a crow. I jumped, and I swear I could feel the werewolves behind me flinch. If I hadn't known better, I'd have said they were just a little afraid of this small woman. I know I was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nicky'll love that. The famous Anita Blake coming to consult him. Oh, he will just fucking love this." She motioned with her head. "Who's he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is Bernardo, he's ... a friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her eyes hardened. "How good a friend?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Close, very close," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She leaned across the bar, putting her face next to mine, her hand still under the bar on the shotgun. "I should kill you. I can feel it. You'll hurt Nicky." I looked into her eyes from inches away. I expected to see anger or even hatred, but there was nothing. It was the very emptiness that clued me in. If she pulled the trigger on me, it wouldn't be the first time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My pulse was suddenly thudding in my throat. Blown away by a psychotic dwarf bartender, how ironic. I kept my voice low and even the way you talk to jumpers on ledges, and people with guns pointed at you. "I don't plan to hurt Nicky. I honestly just want to consult with him, one necromancer to another."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She just kept looking at me, not even blinking. She raised up slowly. "If you move, I'll kill you. If he moves, I'll kill you." The way she said it promised that whatever was about to happen, was something we weren't going to like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned her gaze to Bernardo and leaned down so that her head was sideways looking at him, her ear almost pressed to the bar. "Did you hear me, boyfriend?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I heard you," he said, and his voice was low and calm, too. He'd seen it, too. She wanted an excuse to kill me. I'd never met her before, so it couldn't be personal. But personal or not, I'd be just as dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't let outsiders bring guns into our house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No disrespect intended," I said. "I always go armed. Nothing personal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She leaned back down next to Bernardo's face. "How 'bout you? You always go armed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said. He frowned, then went back to staring at the bar. Lucky he'd worn a hair barrette today or his lovely hair would have been covered in sticky gunk. My hands felt like they were becoming permanently glued to the wood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not in here you don't," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the big man in front who searched us. Somehow I'd known it would be. His power beat against my back like a nearly solid wall of power. Shit. He patted me down like he'd done it before. He found the knives at my wrist and back, as well as the guns. He also found the cell phone but placed it on the bar in front of me instead of taking it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You could see the effort it took for Bernardo to let the man touch him, pat him down, take his gun. He also took a knife out of one of Bernardo's boot's. Anything was an improvement over the last crime scene, but the day really wasn't going well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can we stand up now?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not yet," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo gave me a look that said plainly if he died, he was coming back to haunt me because it was all my fault.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept my voice calm, tried to make sense. "You know I'm Anita Blake. You know why I'm here. What else do you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Harpo, check the man's wallet. Find out who he is," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo? The big man, the vibrating mountain of mystical energy was named Harpo. I said none of this out loud. I really am getting smarter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo took out Bernardo's wallet. He'd stuffed Bernardo's ten mil down the side of his pants and my Browning on the other side. I didn't see the Firestar or the knives. Maybe he'd stuffed them in his pockets. "The driver's license says, Bernardo Spotted-Horse, but there ain't no credit cards, no pictures, no nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman's eyes had gone back to pitiless. "You say he's a close friend?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said. I was beginning to get scared again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He your lover?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If she hadn't had a shotgun pointed at me, I'd have told her to go to hell, but she did, so I answered. "Yeah." I was trusting that Ramirez knew what he was talking about, that I needed to belong to a man. I hoped the lie was the right answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Prove it," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at her. "Excuse me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," she mimicked, and that brought low rumbling laughter from the rest of the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is he circumcised?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hesitated. I couldn't help it. The question caught me too far off guard. I swallowed, and said, "Yes." I had a fifty-fifty chance, and being American and under forty I had a better than even chance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, but it left her eyes like empty glass. "You can stand up now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fought the urge to wipe my hands on my pants. Didn't want to insult her cleanliness, but I also wanted desperately to wash my hands. I moved closer to Bernardo, as if I wanted a hug. I even put my left arm around his waist, though I wondered if I was getting his nice white shirt dirty. His arm slid over my shoulders, but I'd really just wanted out of the line of fire of the damned shotgun. I was betting it was on a stationary mount and not a swiveling one. I hoped I was right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her hands were back in plain sight. A good sign. "Drop your pants, Bernardo," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt him tense beside me. We both looked at her. I started to say excuse me again, but Bernardo said, "Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd have asked her to repeat it, just to make sure I'd understood her. He just asked why, as if this had happened to him before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we can see if you're circumcised."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved my hand out from behind Bernardo's back, standing close together but not entangled in each other's arms. We might be in for a fight after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I said he was. Isn't that enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. You see, you're right. You do work with the cops a lot. You alone might have been okay to see Nicky, but him, we don't know anything about him. If he's your lover, then fine, but if he's not, then maybe he's a cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo laughed, and the sound startled all of us, I think. "Now that is a new one. Me being mistaken for a cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you, if you're not a cop?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes I'm a bodyguard. Sometimes I'm someone you need to guard the body against. Depends on who's paying better." His voice sounded very sure of itself, very matter of fact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe you are, and maybe you're not. Drop the pants, and we'll see."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started unbuckling his belt. I moved away from him, though not too far. Didn't want to get back in front of the shotgun again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong? You've seen him without his pants before," she said. I was beginning to think she didn't believe me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not in a crowd, I haven't," I said. I let the righteous indignation blaze in my voice. It got more laughter from the crowd.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The women were starting to chant, "Take it off, take it all off," and worse. The girl that had been hanging on Harpo was just behind him, watching the show with glittering excited eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo didn't complain or blush. He just undid his pants and pushed them to about mid thigh, and stood there. My look away was automatic. The women screamed, and whistled. One voice yelled, "Big daddy, yes!" The men joined in. The men were congratulating him and speculating on how we did it without hurting me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to look. I just couldn't help myself. I had to know if I'd guessed right, find frankly I just had to look. Embarrassing but true. It took me a few seconds to register that he was circumcised because what I saw first was sheer size. He was well, well endowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was blushing, and I couldn't help that. But I knew if I just stood there and gaped that the lies would all be for nothing. I tried to act as if it were Richard or Jean-Claude standing there. What would I have done? I'd have covered them up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved to stand in front of him, though was careful not to touch. I admit though that I couldn't seem to look anywhere else. Richard was impressive. Bernardo had passed impressive and gone over to scary. I shielded him from view with my body, putting my hands on either side of his waist to steady myself. I was blushing so hard, I was dizzy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at her, still shielding him from the room. "Good enough?" I asked. Even my voice sounded strangled with discomfort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give him a kiss," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at her. "Let him put his pants up and I will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shook her head. "I didn't say kiss his lips."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I blushed any harder, my head was going to explode. I turned around so I couldn't see him anymore. "We are so not doing this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you'll do anything we want," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't know what I would have said to that because a man's voice sounded "Enough games, Paulina. Give them back their weapons, and let them go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We all turned. Coming from the dim back of the room was another dwarf, little person. He was maybe half a head taller than the bartender, Paulina, and he was more obviously Hispanic and younger. His hair was a rich black, his skin tanned and unlined. He looked twenty-something, but the aura of power that spread outward from him like an overwhelming perfume felt older.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am Nicandro Baco, Nicky to my friends." The crowd parted for him like a curtain being drawn back. He held his hand out to me, and I took it, but he didn't shake hands. He raised my hand to his lips and kissed it. But he kept his eyes rolled up to see my face as he did it, and something about the way his eyes looked, his mouth on my skin, reminded me of much more intimate places for a man's mouth to be. I took my hand back as soon as I could and still be polite.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Baco, thank you for seeing me." It sounded so businesslike, as if Bernardo wasn't standing behind us with his pants around his thighs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get dressed," he said. He barely glanced at Bernardo. But I heard him pulling up his pants, struggling to get everything back in place, though frankly I was surprised his jeans could fit over everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you here, Ms. Blake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I really did want to talk to another necromancer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It sounds like you've changed your mind," he said. He watched me minutely, studying my face. When I moved a hand to touch my hair, his eyes tracked it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The grandstanding has taken up all my time. I've got an appointment with the police that I can't really miss." I'd added the police part on purpose because I had a feeling that Baco had known exactly what was happening out here They hadn't really hurt us, just embarrassed us or me. He came in just in the nick of time. Yeah, right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like the two policemen that are waiting outside for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the knowledge flinch across my face, not much of a reaction, but it was enough. "Do you blame us for backup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying you are afraid of us?" That brought a low rumble through the room, as if they had all drawn a breath together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would be a fool if I wasn't," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cocked his head to one side in an almost bird-like movement. "And you are not a fool, are you, Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I try not to be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He motioned to the woman still standing behind the bar. "Paulina does not like you. Do you know why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn to shake my head. "Nope."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's my wife."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must have still looked blank. "Sorry, I don't understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She knows I have a weakness for women with power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "She doesn't have to worry. I'm sort of taken."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "No more lies, Anita. You and he are not lovers." He took my hand again and gazed up at me with those black eyes. I realized for the first time that he considered himself a ladies man. And that his wife had reason to worry, not about me, but about other women. It was there in his eyes, the way he stroked my hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drew my hand away from him and moved back to stand with Bernardo. I actually reached out my hand, and he took it. Both our hands were sticky from the bar, but I clutched at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Baco was half a body-length shorter than I was, but he made me nervous. Part of it was the push of his magic like a thick curtain filling the room. But part of it was the way any man can make you nervous. I didn't like how blatant he was, with us unarmed. I glanced at Paulina, and her harsh face was stricken. Was it a game he played with her? Tormenting her? Who knew, but I wanted out of here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I need to be somewhere before dark. If you don't want to talk to me, fine. We'll go." I started moving backwards, using my body to push Bernardo behind me towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Without your weapons?" Baco made it a question, his voice lilting upward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo and I froze. We were close enough to the door that we could have made a rush for it, probably made it, but ... "Our weapons would be nice," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All you had to do was ask," Baco said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "May we have our weapons back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Harpo, give them back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo never questioned it, just gave us back the guns, the knives. Then he stepped back to join the rest of the silent watchers. The guns and wrist knives were easy to slide into place. The knife in its spine sheath was another matter. I had to use my left hand to feel for the sheath, then feel the blade's tip at the mouth of the sheath. I'd gotten in the habit of closing my eyes so that all I concentrated on was touch. It actually took only a few seconds now to put it away. The real trick was not chopping off a hunk of my hair as the blade slid home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I opened my eyes, Baco was looking at me. "So nice to see a woman who doesn't rely exclusively on sight. Touch is such an important sense for intimate occasions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe being armed again made me brave, or maybe I was just tired of the tension level. "Men who turn everything into a sexual come on are such bores."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Distaste, anger filled his face, turning his charming eyes to black mirrors, like the eyes of a doll. "Too good to fuck a dwarf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "It's not your height that's the problem, Baco. Where I come from, you don't do shit like this in front of your wife."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed then, and it sparkled through his eyes, his face. "The sacrament of marriage? You're offended for my wife's sake? You are a funny girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, me and Barbara Streisand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The humor faded a little from his face. I don't think he got the joke. Strangely, it was the young girl in her short-shorts that met my eyes. I think she got the joke. If she liked early Streisand movies, maybe she wasn't a completely lost soul.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo touched my shoulder, and I jumped. "We're leaving now, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I'm with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never asked your questions," Baco said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you felt it?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face was suddenly serious. "There is something new here. It is like us. It deals in death. I have felt it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Between Santa Fe and Albuquerque though it began closer to Santa Fe</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's moving closer to Albuquerque, to you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For the first time he looked uncertain, not quite afraid, but not happy either. "It knows that I am here. I have felt that, too." He stared up at me and now there was no teasing in his eyes. "It knows that you are here, too Anita. It knows you are here, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "We might be able to help each other, Nicky. I've seen the bodies. I've seen what this thing does. Trust me, Nicky. You don't want to go out that way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you propose?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That we pool our resources and see if we can stop this thing before it gets here, to you. And that we stop playing games. No more teasing. No more power plays."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just business between us?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "We don't have time for anything else, Baco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Come back later tonight, and I will do what I can to help you. Though the police will not want you to share information with me. I am a very bad man, you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "You're a bad man, Nicky, but not a stupid one. You need me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As you need me, Anita," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two necromancers are better than one," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, face solemn. "Come back tonight when you are finished with your police business. I will be waiting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It may be late," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is already later than you think, Anita. Pray, if you are the praying sort, that it is not too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita?" Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going." I let Bernardo back us out the door, his hand on my shoulder guiding me backwards. I got to watch the room, trusting him to make sure nothing was coming up behind us through the door. The werewolves just watched us, not happy, but willing to take orders. Baco had to be their vargamor, their resident witch. I'd just never met a pack that feared its vargamor before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Paulina's face that stayed with me. She was staring at Baco, and the hatred on her face was raw. I knew in that instant that once she had loved him, really loved him, because only true love could twist to such hatred. I'd looked into Paulina's eyes across the barrel of a gun. I think Nicky Baco had more problems than just monsters in the desert. If I were him, I'd be sleeping with a gun.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_40" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36481220" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36481222" class="calibre7"></a>38 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">WE ARRIVED AT THE hospital with the world wrapped in a heavy blue dusk. A twilight so solid it was like cloth, something you could wrap around your hands or wear like a dress. I'd called ahead using Ramirez' cell phone. How do you prove that someone is really dead? I'd seen the "survivors." They drew breath. I assumed they had a heart beat or the doctors would have mentioned it. Their eyes looked at you and seemed to be aware. They reacted to pain. They were alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what if they weren't? What if they were only vessels for a power that made Nicky Baco and I look like backstreet charlatans? There might have been a spell to prove it, but you couldn't take the results of a spell to court and get permission to burn the bodies. And that was what I wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally came up with brain waves. I was betting that the higher functions of the brain weren't working. It was the only thing I could think of that might show that something was wrong with the survivors other than not having skin and missing body parts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unfortunately, Doctor Evans and company had done monitored brain wave activity long ago. They all had higher brain functions. So much for my brilliant idea. Doctor Evans had wanted to talk in the doctor's lounge, but I'd insisted we talk closer to the survivors' room than that. We talked in low tones in the hallway. He wouldn't let me talk in front of the survivors about the fact that they might be dead. Because if I was wrong, it might cause them distress. He had a point. But I didn't think I was wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The survivors already at the hospital had become agitated and violent, snapping at the hospital staff like dogs on chains. No one had been hurt, but the timing coincided with the last murders. Why had the skinned ones been more violent? Was it the spell used to banish whatever it was from the home? Had that upped the ante somehow? Maybe frightened the creature that we were on to it? I didn't know. I just didn't know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All I did know was that I could feel the darkness pressing like a hand about to crush us all. It was a heaviness in the air like before a thunderstorm, but worse, closer, harder to breathe through. Something bad was coming, and it was tied to the darkness. I wasn't able to convince Doctor Evans that his patients were dead, but my urgency must have been persuasive because he did give permission for the two officers that were already at the hospital to guard inside the room instead of out. The only proof I had that there were cops inside the room was a hat lying on one of the chairs outside the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted to go into the room myself, but by the time I got suited up in gown and mask it would be full dark. It was that close, like a trembling line. So I stood in the hall and pretended that I was okay with it, because there was nothing else I could do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Since Officer Rigby and Bernardo were new, they got the standard lecture about not shooting inside an oxygen atmosphere. It would be bad, though it wouldn't explode, which is what I thought it would have done. It would be the flash fire to end all flash fires, turning the room into a lower circle of hell for the few moments it took to use up all the oxygen or fuel in the room. But it wouldn't explode in a shower of glass and plaster. Nothing too dramatic, just deadly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rigby asked, "And if they try to eat us, what are we supposed to do? Spit on them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," Evans said. "All I can tell you is what you shouldn't do, and you shouldn't fire a gun into a room full of oxygen."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo drew a knife from somewhere. He hadn't bent down near his boot, which meant it was a different knife, and one the werewolf in the bar had missed. He held the blade up to the light, letting it gleam. "You cut them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darkness fell like a lead curtain, almost clanging in my head like the roll of thunder. I waited for the door to the room to open. I waited for the screaming to start because that's what I was expecting. Nothing happened. Then pressure that had been building for hours vanished. It was as if something swallowed it up. I was just suddenly standing in the hallway feeling light empty, better. I didn't understand the change, and I don't like what I don't understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We all waited for a few tense heartbeats, then I couldn't stand it. I spilled a knife into my own hand and reached for the door. The door swung outward. I jumped back. The male nurse that I'd been introduced to earlier paused the door staring at the naked blade in my hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He never took his eyes off me, but he talked to Evans. "Doctor, the patients are quiet, quieter than they've been all day. The police officers are wanting know if they can step out of the room for a while."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The survivors are quieter than they've been all day?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben the nurse nodded. "Yes, ma'am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took two steps back from the door, and let out the tension in my body in a long breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, Ms. Blake?" Evans asked. "Can the officers come out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged and looked at Ramirez. "Ask him. He's ranking officer on sit. But truthfully, I guess so. Whatever I've been feeling seemed to fade when darkness fell. I don't understand it." I slid the knife back into its sheath. "I guess there's not going to be a fight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You sound disappointed," Bernardo said. His knife had vanished to wherever he'd gotten it from.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Not disappointed, just confused. I felt a great deal of power building for hours, and it just vanished. That much power doesn't just vanish. It went somewhere. Apparently, not into the survivors, but it's off somewhere tonight doing something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Any ideas what it's doing and where?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Not really."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned to the doctor. "Tell the men they can come outside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben the nurse looked to Doctor Evans for confirmation. Evans nodded. The nurse ducked back inside, the door closing slowly behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Evans turned to me. "Well, Ms. Blake, looks like you hurried over here for nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "I thought we'd be ass deep in man-eating corpses by now." I smiled. "It's nice to be wrong once in a while."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We all smiled at each other. The tension spilled out of all of us. Bernardo gave that nervous laugh you sometimes give when the emergency is over, or the bullet passed you by.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm very glad you were wrong, this time, Ms. Blake," Evans said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, too," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, three," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm happy, too," Ramirez said, "but it is disappointing to find out you're not perfect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't know I'm not perfect after forty-eight hours of working with me on a police investigation, then you are not paying attention."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm paying attention," Ramirez, said, "close attention." There was a weight to his gaze, an intensity to his words that made me want to squirm. In trying not to squirm I caught Bernardo's eyes. He was smiling at me, enjoying my discomfort. Glad someone was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you were wrong about this, you may be wrong about them being dead," Evans said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You admit you may be wrong, just like that?" Evans seemed surprised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is magic, not math, Doctor Evans. There are very few hard and fast rules. There are even fewer rules the way I do it. Sometimes I think two and two is going to add up to five, and I'm right. Sometimes all you get is four. If it lowers the body count, I don't mind being wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened, and two men came out dressed in Albuquerque uniforms. They'd headed for the door as soon as Ben the nurse told them they could go. I didn't blame them one bit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their eyes looked haunted. The tallest one was blond and built all of squares. Broad shoulders, thick waist, heavy legs, not fat, just solid, strong. His partner was shorter and almost completely bald except for a ring of brown curls low on his head. Apparently, it was his hat sitting in the chair by the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Evans said, "Excuse me." He moved past them into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The short one said, "He can have it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blond looked at me, eyes narrowing, not friendly. "Well, if it isn't the wicked witch of the Midwest. I hear we have you to thank for us sitting in there for the last hour."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't recognize him, but apparently he knew me on sight. "I suggested it, yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blond moved closer, using his size to intimidate me, or he tried. Size just isn't as impressive as most men think it is. "Maybe Marks was right about you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah hah. He must have been one of the officers on site when Marks kicked me out. I felt Ramirez start to move up, probably to step between us. I put my hand on his shoulder. "It's all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez didn't move back the step he'd taken, but at least he didn't move forward. It was probably the best I would get out of him. But it meant that I was sandwiched between the two men. The blond's eyes flicked to Ramirez behind me. The look on his face was enough. He wanted a fight and didn't really care who it was with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was glaring at Ramirez now, and I could almost feel the testosterone rising on every side. Enough testosterone to get the officer in trouble, maybe suspended when all he needed was to blow off some steam. He was trying to cleanse himself of the horrors in that room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Both his partner and Bernardo were staying back. I didn't know what the partner was doing, but Bernardo was enjoying the show.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You must have been one of the officers that helped Marks throw me out," I said. I was looking way up at the man, and he was looking over me at Ramirez.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took him a second to blink and look at me. He frowned at me, and it was a good frown. I bet it made a lot of bad guys run like hell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His partner came up behind him. "Yeah, Jarman and I were both there." The partner sounded calm, and I think worried about his partner. Good partners look after more than just your physical health.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you are?" I asked. I asked it like his partner, Jarman, wasn't about to pick a fight with everyone in the hallway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He introduced himself like everything was normal, too. "Jakes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Jarman and Jakes?" I made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, smiling. "J and J at your service."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the tension easing in the big man in front of me. Hard to stay pissed when you're being ignored, and everyone else is behaving themselves. I pressed my back into Ramirez, trying to urge him to back off. He took the hint stepping back a little.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Officer Rigby came bounding down the hallway. He'd gone to the car to get something less explosive than his gun. What he was carrying was a Tazer gun. It would send a charge of 30,000 to 60,000 volts through a suspect. Theoretically, it could put someone down for the count without the danger of killing him. Unless you get very unlucky, like the perp has a pacemaker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez was shaking his head. "What the hell is that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rigby looked at the Tazer. "I can't use my gun so I'll use this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Rigby," Jarman said, "a Tazer makes a spark."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rigby looked puzzled. "So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the spark when we fire a gun will set off the oxygen in the room, so will the spark from a Tazer," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Go back to the car and find something else," Jarman said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes and I had moved to one side, watching Ramirez and Jarman ream the rookie. No one was mad anymore, derisive, condescending, but not mad. When Rigby had disappeared through the doors at the far end of the hall, Jarman turned to Ramirez. "Is Rigby all Marks gave you for backup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded, then shrugged. "He'll learn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And get someone killed doing it," Jarman said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes held his hand out low, palm up. He was smiling. I gave him a low five. I was smiling, too, but not because his partner hadn't belted a detective. I was just happy that I'd been wrong. I'd had my fill of corpses for the day. Hell, for the year.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo was leaning against the opposite wall. He seemed puzzled by my interaction with the cops. I doubt it ever occurred to Bernardo to make friends with them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two uniforms had batons stuck in their utility belts. Ramirez looked unarmed except for his gun. "Where's your baton, Hernando?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oooh, Hernando," Jakes said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, Hernando," Jarman said, rolling the name off his tongue, "where's your baton?" That they were willing to give Ramirez shit meant that under normal conditions he and Jarman got along. There is a different flavor to teasing when it's hostile. Rigby's teasing was close to hostile, not quite, as if they weren't sure if he were really one of them yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez took a short metal rod out of his hip pocket. He made a small movement with his wrist, and the rod telescoped into a solid piece of metal about two feet long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"An asp," I said. "I didn't notice you carrying one when we met. I'm usually pretty aware of weapons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flicked the rod back into its compact size. "An asp is pretty small when it's put away. How do you know I wasn't carrying one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth, then closed it, and looked at him. He was grinning at me. I debated on whether to rise to the bait, or let it pass. Hell, this was the most fun I'd had all day. "Are you implying that I was staring at your butt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How else would you know I didn't have something about the size of a pen in my back pocket?" His eyes were sparkling like dark jewels, shiny with humor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Just checking for weapons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what they all say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman said, "Wanna check me for weapons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ilooked at him. "I can see your weapon from here, Jarman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He puffed his chest out a little, managing to strut without moving his feet an inch. "When you're my size, it's hard to miss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at every man in turn and had to really fight the urge to linger on Bernardo. I was willing to bet that his "weapon" was the biggest in the hallway. "Oh, I don't know, Jarman. You know what they say. It's not size that matters. It's talent." Again, I had to fight the urge to stare at Bernardo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman smiled happily. "Trust me, baby. I've got the talent and the size."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Easy to brag when you know you'll never have to prove it," I said, and yes, I was baiting him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman swept his hat off and gave me a look. I think it was supposed to be a come hither look. His scary frown was better than his sexy look, but hey, I bet he got a lot more opportunity to practice scary than sexy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's find some privacy, babe, and I will prove it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, smiling. "And what would your wife say about you taking me out for a test drive. Nice wedding band, by the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed, a good-natured rumble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes answered for him. "His wife would feed him his dick on a stick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman nodded, still chuckling. "Yeah, my Bren has a temper, that she does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said it like it was a good thing, a thing he valued. He looked at me. "My Bren would have kicked Marks in the balls, not kissed him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought about it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you hit him?" Ramirez asked. The humor still sparkled in his eyes but his face was more serious. I think he wanted a real answer, not a joke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He was expecting me to hit him. Maybe even wanted me to hit him. He could have pressed assault charges, gotten me behind bars for awhile."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I expected one of the three men to say Marks wouldn't do that, but no one did. I looked from one suddenly serious face to another. "No one going to defend the lieutenant's honor? Protest that he wouldn't do such a dastardly thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman said, "Nope."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes said, "Dastardly. You talk real pretty for a devil-worshipping assassin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I blinked at him. "Pass that by me again, slowly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes nodded. "According to the lieutenant, you're suspected in the disappearances of several citizens, as well as dancing naked in the moonlight with the devil himself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks didn't say that last part."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes grinned. "Can't blame a man for wishful thinking." He wiggled his eyebrows at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I laughed. They laughed. A good time being had by all. Except Bernardo who leaned against the wall apart from the general goodwill. He was watching me as if he'd never really seen me before. I'd surprised him in some way</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks tried to get you arrested for magical malfeasance, so the rumor mill says," Jarman said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him. Magical malfeasance could carry a death sentence. I stared at Ramirez. "Did you know he was trying to do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez touched my arm. We moved down the hallway to the distant rumble of masculine laughter. The two officers were probably still giving each other good-natured shit. From the caliber of the laughter, if it was about me it was probably something I didn't want to hear. There is always a line to the teasing that must be carefully avoided. I wanted to be a female one of the guys, not get a reputation for being a slut. A thin line to walk sometimes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Probably best to be out of earshot, but I didn't want to be alone with Ramirez right now. It bothered me that he hadn't told me what Marks had said about me. He was a virtual stranger. He didn't owe me anything, but it made me think less of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An African-American nurse walked past us and went into the room. Since all I'd seen were her eyes the first time, I couldn't be sure if she was the same nurse I'd glimpsed earlier in the room. She was small, about the right size, but in full surgical scrubs, who knew?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men had fallen silent as she walked past. As soon as the door closed safely behind her, the laughter sounded again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez looked at me with that honest face, a line of concern between his eyebrows like a tiny wrinkle of discontent. He looked even younger when he frowned. "Doesn't that bother you?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced back at the two officers. They were still smiling. "Jakes and Jarman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean the teasing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I kissed Marks in front of all of them, I sort of invited a little teasing. Besides, I sort of started it, or rather you did." I shrugged. "It blows off steam, and we all need that right now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most women don't see it that way," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not most women. But frankly, one reason a lot of women don't stand for any teasing is that some men don't know when teasing crosses the line to harassment. If I had to work day in and day out with them, I might be more careful. But I don't, so I can afford to push the line a little."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is your line, Anita?" He was standing just a little too close for comfort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll let everyone know when they've reached it. Don't worry." I stepped back from him, giving myself the distance I wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're mad at me." He sounded surprised. I half smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Believe me, Detective, when I'm mad at you, you'll know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Detective. Not even Ramirez. Now I know you're upset. What did I do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, studying that open, honest fact. "Why didn't you tell me what Marks said about me? What he was telling the other cops about me? It would carry a death sentence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No way was Marks going to push that through, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You still should have told me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked puzzled for a moment, then shrugged. "I didn't know I was supposed to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned. "I guess not." But I wasn't happy with his answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched my arm again, every so lightly. "I didn't believe that Marks could get you arrested. I was right. Isn't that enough?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let his hand fall away from me. "What good would it have done to tell you? You'd have worried for nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't need my feelings protected. I need to feel that I can trust you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't trust me because I didn't tell you everything that Marks said?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not as much as I trusted you before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first hint of anger hardened his eyes. "And you told me everything that happened in Los Duendos? You didn't hold anything back about your interview with Nicky Baco?" His eyes weren't kind now. They were cool and searching, cop eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down once, then fought to maintain eye contact when what I desperately wanted to do was duck my head and say, aw shucks, you caught me. Push me into a corner, and I usually get angry. But somehow looking into his deep brown eyes, I couldn't pull up much moral indignation. Maybe it was having no moral high ground to stand on. Yeah, that might be it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't kill anybody, if that's what you're implying." It was one of my usual comments with less than my usual force.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's not what I'm implying and you know it, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something familiar, almost intimate, about the conversation. We'd known each other for two days, and yet we interacted as if we'd known each other much longer. It was unnerving. I didn't usually bond this quickly with people or monsters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But if it had been my longtime police friend Sergeant Rudolph Storr himself standing in front of me, I'd have lied. If Nicky Baco got a whiff of cops, he'd back off, and he'd never trust me again. People like Baco don't give second chances when it comes to the police.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Baco knew you and Rigby were outside the bar, Hernando. He has the entire area wired with magical ... " I waffled my hand back and forth, seeking the right word " ... wards, spells. He knows what happens in his streets. If I go back in with police as backup, no matter how distant, he won't help us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you so sure he can help?" Ramirez asked. "He may just be stringing you along, trying to find out what you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's scared, Hernando. Baco is scared. Call it a feeling, but I don't think much frightens him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've just told me you're withholding information from an ongoing murder investigation."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you wire me up or insist on sending someone under cover with me we'll lose Baco. You know I'm right on this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We may lose Baco, but you're not right," he said, and the anger was back. A frustrated anger that I'd seen before in other men that I'd known longer and in more intimate ways. That anger that I can't just be a good girl and play by their rules, and be what they want me to be. It made me tired to hear that thread in Ramirez's voice after only two days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The most important thing to me right this second is stopping these murders. That is my goal. That is my only goal." I thought about what I'd said and added, "And staying alive. But other than that I don't have any other agenda. Stop the bad guys. Stay alive. It makes things simple, Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You told me earlier that you wanted your life to change, to be more than blood and horror. If you want that to change, you are going to have to complicate your life, Anita. And you are going to have to start trusting people, really trusting them again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Thanks for using my moment of weakness against me. Now I remember why I don't confide in strangers." I was finally angry myself. It felt good. It felt familiar. If I could just stay angry, I could stop being so damned confused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed my arm, and the grip wasn't gentle this time. It didn't hurt, but I could feel the press of his fingers in my flesh. For the first time since I'd met him, he let me see the hardness underneath. That core of harshness that you either have or acquire if you stay with the cops. Without that core to protect yourself, you may stay on the job, but you won't thrive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "What next, rubber hoses and bright lights?" It was meant to be a joke, but my voice wasn't light when I said it. We were both angry now. Underneath all those smiles and mild manners was a temper. We'd see whose was worse, his or mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spoke low and carefully, the way I do sometimes when to do anything else will start me yelling. "I could just tell Marks about the meeting. Tell him you're holding out on us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine," I said, "do it. Marks will probably have him arrested, search his bar. He might even find enough magical paraphernalia to get him jailed on suspicion of magical malfeasance. And what will that get us, Detective? Baco in jail, and a few days from now more people dead. More bodies gutted." I leaned into his angry face and whispered, "How will your dreams be then, Hernando?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let me go so abruptly that I stumbled. "You really are a bitch, aren't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "If the situation warrants it, you bet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, rubbing his hands up and down his arms. "If I hold out on this and it goes wrong, it could be my career."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just say you didn't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "Too many people know I was your police escort." He managed to make the last two words heavy with irony. "You've got another meeting planned with him, haven't you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to keep the surprise off my face, but a blank face was just as bad. It was like when you were asked if you were sleeping with someone, and you refused to answer. Not answering was as good as a yes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stalked from one side of the hallway to the other. "Dammit, Anita, I can't sit on this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I realized he meant it. I stood in his path, so he had to stop pacing and look at me. "You can't tell Marks. He'll screw it up. If he thinks I'm dancing with the devil, he'll have hysterics when he meets Nicky Baco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The anger was beginning to leak from his eyes. "When's the meeting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Promise first that you won't tell Marks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's in charge of the investigation. If I don't tell him and he finds out, I might as well hand in my badge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He doesn't seem very popular around here," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's still my superior."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's your boss," I said. "He is in no way your superior."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That earned me a smile. "Flattery will get you nowhere with me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not flattery, Hernando. It's the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was finally quiet, standing there looking at me. His expression was almost his normal one, or what I thought was normal for him. For all I knew he dissected puppies in his spare time. All right, I didn't believe that, but I didn't really know him. We were strangers, and I was having to remind myself of that. I kept wanting to treat him like a friend or better. What was the matter with me?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When is the meeting, Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I won't tell you, then what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shadow of that hardness seeped into his eyes. "Then I tell Marks you're withholding evidence."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if I tell you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I'll go with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I promise not to show up looking like a cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him from shined shoes to short, clean hair. "In what alternate reality would you <em class="calibre9">not</em> look like a cop?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard the door open behind us, but neither of us turned. We were too busy making major eye contact.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarman yelled, "Ramirez!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tone in that one word that whirled us both around. Doctor Evans was leaning against the wall, holding his wrist upright. Blood gleamed like a scarlet bracelet around his arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez and I started running at the same time down that short space of hallway as if we had farther to go and less time to get there. Jarman and Jakes were disappearing through the door. Bernardo hesitated at the door, holding it open long enough for the screams to cut through the hospital silence. Low and wordless and panicked, and I knew without knowing that it was a man screaming. I was almost at the door, almost to Bernardo, Ramirez pacing me like a shadow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo said, "This is a bad idea." But he went through the door, a heartbeat before we reached it. God, I hated being right all the time.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_41" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36482189" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36482192" class="calibre7"></a>39 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE WHITE STERILE ROOM had been a quiet corner of hell. Now it was a loud, chaotic corner of hell. A skinless hand snatched at me. I slashed at it with the big blade that I'd pulled from the spine sheath. The hand bled and jerked back. They could feel pain. They bled. Good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the blade raised for a neck blow as the corpse came at me again. Ramirez blocked my arms. "They're civilians!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, then back at that raw thing that was held to the bed only by one last wrist restraint. It launched at me again, slashing the air with its bloody hand, screaming wordlessly, butchered tongue flopping like a worm in the lipless ruin of its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just stay out of reach," he said and pulled me past it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had time to say, "They're corpses, Ramirez, just corpses."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held up the asp. "Don't kill them." He moved into the fight, though it wasn't a fight yet. Most of the corpses were still restrained to the beds. They struggled, screaming, wailing, jerking their ruined flesh to bloodier ruin against the restraints, bodies bucking as they thrashed to free themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ben the nurse was beating at the head of one patient. It had sunk teeth into his arm so deeply that he couldn't free himself. Jarman was with him, beating the thing's head with his baton from far back like you'd hit a baseball. You could hear the soft, melon-like thunk even over the screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes and Bernardo were at the last bed near the windows. The African-American nurse was held in the embrace of a corpse that still had one hand and one ankle attached to the bed. Its head was buried into her chest. Blood plastered her gown to her body like someone had spilled a can of red paint down her. Where the thing was gnawing shouldn't have been a killing spot, but there was too much blood. It had reached something vital.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes was beating at the thing's head so hard that he was rising on tiptoe, his body almost leaving the ground with each blow. The corpse's head was bleeding, cracking, but it wasn't letting go. Its head was buried into her chest like a monstrous child, feeding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo was stabbing the corpse in the back over and over. The blade came free in a spray of blood, but it didn't matter. The one by the door had reacted to pain, but once they started feeding, they were just meat. You couldn't hurt meat, and you sure as hell couldn't kill it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked between the beds with the corpses screaming, bodies writhing, and all the eyes looked the same. It was as if there was only one personality looking out of every pair of eyes. Their master, whatever that was, watched me walk between the beds, watching me go to the far bed, away from Ramirez, and his cautions. He still didn't understand what was about to happen when they all freed themselves. We had to be out of this room before that happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved in beside Bernardo, moving him back a step. I wiggled the blade underneath the thing's jaw. I took a deep breath, centered myself the way you do in martial arts class just before you break something big and permanent-looking, I pictured the blade coming out the top of the skull, and that's what I tried for. I tried to shove it through its head. The blade went through the soft tissue under the jaw with a sharp, wet, movement, then the tip hit the bone at the roof of the mouth, and kept going. The blade didn't come out of the top of its head, but I felt it shove into the strange emptiness of the sinus cavities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reared back from the woman, its jaws trying to open around the gleam of the blade. It clawed at its mouth with the one free hand, letting the nurse fall back onto the bed. We got our first glimpse of the wound. There was a hole in the middle of her chest. Broken ribs jutted outward like the broken sides of a frame. The hole was just the size for a human face to shove deep. I stared down into that dark, wet hole, and half her heart was gone, eaten away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, God!" Jakes said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing in the bed had freed its other hand. It was tugging at the hilt of the blade, trying to pull it free. Jakes, Bernardo, and I exchanged a look between us. One look, no words, and we turned towards the rest of the room with one goal in mind: get to the door any way we could. There was nothing human in this room but us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up and found Ramirez and Jarman at the far door with the male nurse sagging between them. Great. I yelled, "Run!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We tried. I sensed movement and turned in time for the corpse to hit me full on and send us both crashing to the floor. I stabbed for the jaw, trying to pin its teeth like I had the other one, but it moved and I only got the throat. Blood splashed across my face in a hot liquid rush. It blinded me for a second. I could feel it moving over my body, legs straddling my waist. I kept my hand pushed into raw shoulder, holding it back, while it strained over me. I wiped the blood out of my eyes with the back of my hand that held the knife. It snapped at me like a dog, and I screamed. I cut its cheek so deep the blade scraped on teeth. It screamed and sank its teeth into my hand. I screamed as it shook its head like a dog with a bone. My hand opened, and the knife fell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It came at me, mouth open, pale blue eyes so impossibly wide. It went for my throat. There was no time to try for the last knife. I went for its eyes. I plunged my thumbs into its eyes, and its own momentum pushed them deeper than I could have gotten them. I felt the eyeballs rupture, exploding in warm fluid and thicker things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It screamed, whipping its head back and forth, hands clawing at its face. Bernardo was suddenly there, pulling it backwards, throwing it one-armed across the room to skid into the wall. Amazing what you can do when you're terrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was on my knees, drawing the last knife. Bernardo dragged me to my feet, and we were almost to the door. Rigby was there with an ax, hacking at the corpses. Hands and less identifiable bits littered the ground around him. Ramirez shoved his asp into one's mouth, so hard the dull tip showed through the back of its throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jakes was dragging Jarman by his wrists, leaving a thick red trail behind him. Jarman's body was wedged in the door. Rigby's ax had chopped two of the corpses into enough pieces that they were down. Two of the corpses were still held to the bed with one last restraint. Ramirez was wrestling with the one that was trying to swallow his asp. A corpse threw itself at Rigby, and the ax sliced air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard the scrambling behind me before Bernardo yelled, "Behind ... "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was on the way down to the floor with the thing riding my back, before I heard Bernardo yell, " ... you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tucked my head, trying to protect my neck. Teeth bit through my shirt, drawing blood, but having trouble gnawing through the strap of the shoulder holster and spine sheath. It dug its teeth into my flesh, but the leather strap acted like a sort of armor. I drove the knife back into its thigh, once, twice. It didn't care.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, there was a wash of air, and a heavy blow, blood spilled across my hair, shoulders, and back, in a scalding wash. I scrambled out from under the corpse and found it was headless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rigby stood over it with the bloody ax and a wild look in his eyes. "Go, get out. I'll cover your back." His voice was high-pitched, fear dripping from it, but he stood his ground and started moving us all towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the corpses was on Bernardo's back, but it wasn't trying to eat him. It pounded his head twice into the floor, hard. It looked up at me. There was something in its eyes that hadn't been in any of the others. It was afraid. Afraid of us. Afraid of being stopped. Afraid, just maybe, of dying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It scrambled through the open glass doors and brushed past Jakes, as if it had somewhere to go and something else to do. And I knew it had to be stopped, knew if it escaped that it would be very bad. But I put a hand under Bernardo's arm and started dragging him for the door. Ramirez took his other arm and it was suddenly easy to drag him through that glass door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sudden rush in the room behind us. Rigby stumbled back against the button that closed the door. It slid closed with Ramirez beating on it. I saw Rigby swing the ax, then a corpse came in from both sides. Ramirez reached for the button to open the door, but either Rigby's weight had jammed it or something else had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez screamed, "Rigby!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a gigantic whoosh of air as if a giant had drawn a breath, and the room filled with fire. Flames licked the glass like orange-gold water through the glass of an aquarium. I could feel the heat beating against the glass. Fire alarms went off with a high-pitched scream. I threw myself to the floor on top of Bernardo, covering my face, waiting for that tremendous heat to crack the glass and spill over all of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it wasn't heat that spilled over me. It was coolness, water. I raised my head to the sprinklers that were filling the room. The glass was blackened, and smoke and steam curled against the glass like fog as the water killed the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez reached for the button, and the doors opened in a sound of rushing water. The alarm was louder now, and I realized that it was two different alarms now, mixing together in one nerve-jangling screech. Ramirez stepped into the room, and I heard his voice over the maddening noise. "Madre de Dios."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood with the water pounding me, soaking my hair, clothing. I didn't follow him into the room. Rigby was beyond any help I could give him. We still had one more corpse on the run. I laid my fingertips on Bernardo's neck just under the jaw. Thescreech of the fire alarms seemed to make it hard to feel his pulse, but it was there, strong and sure. He was down for the count, but he was alive. Jakes was kneeling beside Jarman, tears streaming down his face. He was trying to stop a wound in Jarman's neck with his bare hands. The pool of blood that had spilled to either side of Jarman's head was being washed away by the sprinklers. His eyes were fixed and staring, unblinking as the water poured down on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shit. I should have grabbed Jakes and said, "He's dead. Jarman is dead." But I couldn't do it. I got to my feet. "Ramirez."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still staring into the room at whatever was left of Rigby.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ramirez!" I yelled it, and he turned, but his eyes were unfocused as if he wasn't really seeing me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got one more corpse to catch. We can't let it get away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me with dull eyes. I needed some help here. I took those few steps to stand in the doorway by him, and I slapped him hard enough that my hand stung with the blow. Harder than I'd meant to hit him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His head whipped back, and I braced for him to hit me back, but he didn't. He stood there, hands in tight fists, shaking with the urge, eyes blazing with a rage that was just looking for someone to rain all over. It wasn't me hitting him. It was everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he didn't slap me back, I said, "The bad thing went that way." I pointed at the door. "We need to go after it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to talk very rapidly in Spanish. I couldn't understand the majority of it, but the anger came through just fine. I caught one word that I did know. He called me a bruja. It meant witch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fuck this," I opened the door, having to edge around Jarman's body. The sprinklers were on in the hallway, too. Evans was still sitting with his back to the wall. He'd pulled his mask down, as if he couldn't get enough air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where did it go?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Down the fire stairs, end of the hall." He had to raise his voice over the sound of fire alarms, but his voice was dull, distant. Maybe later if I was good, I could go into shock, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't hear the door open behind me, but Ramirez yelled, "Anita!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I half-turned as I ran for the door. "I'm taking the stairs, you take the elevators."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He yelled, "Anita!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned, and he tossed one of the cell phones to me. I caught it one-handed awkwardly against my chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I get to ground and haven't found it, I'll call," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded, jamming the phone into my back pocket, running for the door. I found it. I had the Browning out now. There was no oxygen-filled room now. We'd see if bullets worked as well as knives. I pushed the heavy fire door with my whole body, until it was flat against the wall, and I knew the thing wasn't behind the door. Then I hesitated on the concrete landing. The sprinklers were going in here, too, like waterfalls down the concrete steps. The fire alarms filled the space with high-pitched echoes. I looked up at the rising stairs, then down. I had no idea which way it had gone. It could have gotten off on any floor above or below me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dammit, I needed to find this thing. I wasn't sure why it felt so urgent that it not get away, but I'd been right about the coming dark and the corpses. I'd trust my judgment. They were just animated corpses, just a kind I'd never seen before. But they were dead, and I was a necromancer. Technically, I could control any form of the walking dead. I could sometimes sense a vampire when it was near. I took a breath and centered myself in a solid line, drew my power in, flung it out, searching, my back to the door, the water pouring down on me, the scream of the fire alarms so piercing it was hard to think. I sent that "magic" outward, up the stairs, down the stairs like an invisible line of fog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked upright. I'd felt something like a pull on the end of a fishing line. Down, it had gone down. If I was wrong, there was nothing I could do about it. But I didn't think I was wrong. I started running down the wet cement steps, one hand on the banister to catch myself when I slipped, the other with the gun pointed upward. There was a woman crumpled outside the next landing, lying across the door, motionless, but breathing. I turned her face to the side so she wouldn't be drowned in the sprinklers, and kept going. Down, it was going down, and it wasn't taking time to feed. It was running, running away from us, running away from me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got to my feet, sliding on the wet steps, only my death grip on the slippery metal banister catching me before I fell. I lost my connection to the creature when I slipped. I just couldn't hold the concentration and do everything else. The sprinklers stopped abruptly, but the fire alarms went on and on, more piercing without the water to muffle it. I pushed to my feet and started running again. Very distant, far down below, there was a scream. I vaulted the next turn of banister, sliding down the wet metal, almost going head first over the next turn of railing. I was going as fast as I could, faster than was safe. I ran and slid and stumbled down the stairs, and all the time the growing sense that I was going to be too late. That no matter how fast I ran, I wouldn't get there in time.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_42" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36482504" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36482506" class="calibre7"></a>40 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I COULDN'T REGAIN the link with the thing without stopping and concentrating. I made the decision to keep chasing, and hoped I didn't miss it as I ran past the doors. Besides, on the 19th floor there was a huddled group of water-soaked patients with a nurse. They all pointed wordlessly down. At 17 there was a man with a bouquet of flowers with a bloody lip that babbled at me and pointed down. The door opened on 14, and nurse in a pink smock rushed out and ran into me. She screamed, jerking back against the wall, staring at me with huge eyes. She had a baby in each arm, in those little blankets. One even had its little pink knit hat still in place. Both babies were screaming, their high cat-like wails competing with the fire alarm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nurse just stared at me, unable to speak or afraid to. Maybe it was the gun, or maybe not all the blood had washed away in the sprinklers. I raised my voice above the noise, "Is it on this floor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She just nodded. She was mumbling something over and over. I had to lean into her to understand it. "It's in the nursery. It's in the nursery. It's in the nursery."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't think my adrenaline could get any higher. I was wrong. I could suddenly feel the blood rushing through my body, feel my heart like a painful thing in my chest. I opened the door, scanning the hallway with the Browning. Nothing moved. The corridor stretched long and empty with too many closed doors for comfort. The fire alarm was still screaming, making my skin tight with the noise. But even over the screech of the alarm I could hear the babies</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... crying ... screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped the phone out of my pocket, hit the button he'd told me to hit earlier, and started jogging down the hallway towards the sounds. Ramirez answered it in the middle of the first ring. "Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm on maternity. It's the 14th floor. A nurse says the thing is in the nursery." I was at the first corner. I threw myself against the far wall, but didn't really stop. I'm usually more cautious around corners, but the crying was getting closer, more piteous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm on my way," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hit the button that cut us off, but still had it in my hand when I came around the next corner. There was a body pushed through a pane of wired safety glass. I could tell it was a man, but that was about all. The face looked like hamburger. I stepped on a stethoscope on the floor below him. Doctor or nurse. I didn't check for a pulse. If he was alive, I didn't know how to help him. If he was dead, it didn't matter. One last door, then a long expanse of window. But I didn't need to see the long window to know it was the nursery. I could hear the babies crying. Even over the fire alarm the sound of those panicked cries made my heart flutter, made me want to run and help them. A hard wiring response that I hadn't even known I had made me reach for the door. I still had the phone in my left, and made one attempt to shove it in my pocket. The bite on my left hand made me awkward. The phone slipped, and I let it fall to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The handle turned, but the door stopped just inches open. I put my shoulder into it, and realized it was a body, an adult body. I backed off and hit it again, moving it by painful inches. There was a woman screaming, not just the babies. I couldn't open the door. Dammit!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the window crashed outward in a spray of glass and a body. A woman hit the ground and lay there sprawled and bleeding. I left the wedged door and went for the window. There were shards of glass like small swords on the bottom of the break. But I'd taken falls in Judo higher than this. I'd practiced falling for years. I glanced in to check one thing. The herd of little plastic cribs was pushed to either side. I had room. I took a running leap at it and threw myself over the broken glass, rolling as I fell. I only had one free hand to slap the floor with and take the impact of the fall, but I wanted the gun in my hand ready to fire. I hit the floor, and the force of my blow, the jump, whatever, was still there, still rolling me. I used it to come to my feet before I even knew what was in the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't so much see what was happening as take pictures of isolated things. I registered the overturned cribs: a tiny, tiny baby lying on the floor like a broken doll, the center of its body eaten away, like the center sucked out of a piece of candy; cribs still standing upright splattered with blood, some with tiny twisted bodies inside, some empty except for the blood; then in the far corner was the monster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It held a tiny blanket-wrapped bundle. Tiny fists waving in the air. I couldn't hear it crying. I couldn't hear anything. There was nothing but sight, and that skinless face bending over the baby. My first bullet took it through the forehead, the second through the face as its head was thrown back by the impact of the first shot. It raised the struggling baby up in front of its face, and our eyes locked over the tiny form. It looked at me. The bullet holes in its face filled in like soft clay. I fired into its stomach because that's what I could hit without endangering the baby. It jerked back, but it threw itself to the floor. It didn't fall. I hadn't really hurt it. It took cover behind a row of tiny cribs. They were all on thin-legged wheels. I dropped to a crouch and sighted through that forest of thin metal legs, and saw it crouching, bringing the baby to its mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no clear shot. I fired anyway, shooting into the wall beside it. It flinched, scuttling away, but didn't drop the baby. I fired through the legs of the wheeled cribs, keeping it moving. Where was Ramirez?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stood and ran straight at me. I fired into its body. It shuddered but kept coming. The baby was naked except for a little diaper now, but it was alive. The thing threw the baby at me. It wasn't even a decision. I just caught cradling it to my chest, both hands compromised. The monster smashed into me. The momentum took us all back through the window I'd come through. We landed with the monster on bottom as if we'd flipped in midair. My gun barrel was pressed into its stomach, and I started pulling the trigger with my right hand before I even started cradling the baby tight with my left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The creature jerked like a broken-backed snake. I got to my knees beside it, firing until the gun clicked empty. I dropped the Browning and went for the Firestar. I had it almost pointed when it hit me with the back of one hand, and the blow sent me crashing into the wall. I'd tried to protect the baby from the impact and had taken more of it than was good for me. I was stunned for a second, and it grabbed me by the hair, turning me towards it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I fired into its chest and stomach. Each bullet made the body jerk, and somewhere around the sixth or seventh shot, it let go of my hair. A bullet later and the Firestar clicked empty. It stood over me, and that lipless mouth smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fire alarm stopped. The sudden silence was almost frightening. I could hear my heart pounding in my head. The baby in my arms was suddenly piercingly loud, more frantic sounding. The thing tensed, and I knew a second before it came that it was going to rush me. I used that second to try and put the baby on a clear piece of floor. I was half-turned when it picked me up and flung me into the opposite wall. I didn't have the baby to worry about anymore. I slapped my hands and arms into the wall taking as much of the impact as I could. When it closed the distance, I wasn't stunned. It grabbed one upper arm, and I struggled to keep it from grabbing the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew how to grapple, but not with something that was slick and skinless. There was nothing to grab onto. It picked me up by my shirt, the other hand under my thigh, and dead lifted me like a barbell. I hit the wall as though it had tried to throw me through it. I tried to protect myself, but I slid to the floor, stunned, unable to breathe or think for a space of heartbeats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It knelt beside me, tearing my shirt out of my pants, baring my stomach and my bra. It put a hand under my back and lifted me almost gently, bowing my back, raising me up, and lowering its face towards my bare flesh, as if it meant to kiss me. I heard a voice in my head. It whispered, "I hunger." Everything seemed distant, dreamlike, and I knew that I was close to passing out. I raised my hand and almost didn't feel like it was mine. But I moved it. I caressed that slick, fleshless face. And it rolled those strange lidless eyes up at me as it lowered its mouth to feed. My thumb slid along the flesh, feeling, feeling for the eye. It didn't stop me. It bit into my upper stomach, as my thumb slid into its eye. We both screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It reared back, dropping me to the floor. It was a short fall, and I was on my knees, edging away from it when the first bullet whirled it around. Ramirez came down the hallway from the direction of the fire stairs, firing in a two-handed stance as he advanced down the hall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The body jerked, but the wounds were closing faster and faster, as if the more we shot it, the better the flesh was at healing the damage. I expected the thing to attack Ramirez or me, or escape, but it didn't. It leaped into the broken window of the nursery. And I knew what it meant to do. It wasn't trying to escape. It was trying to take as many lives as it could before we destroyed it. Its master was feeding off the deaths.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez went to the door that I'd tried earlier. I left him banging against it with his shoulder. I pulled myself up to the window. It was tearing the blanket off of another baby, like unwrapping a present. I didn't know where my guns were. I had nothing left to throw at it. It turned in silhouette, and the baby was grabbing for the air with tiny matchstick arms. The monster's mouth widened showing a mouth already red with blood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez had gotten the door open enough to slip inside. He shot at its legs and lower body, afraid to try a head shot so close to the baby. The monster ignored him, and everything slowed down to a crystalline crawl. The face lowered, mouth wide to take that tiny heart. I screamed, and I put all my rage, all my helplessness into that shout. I pulled that power that let me raise the dead, I pulled it around me like a shining thing and flung it outward. I could actually see it in my mind like a thin white rope of fog. I threw my aura, my essence around the thing. I was a necromancer, and all this fucking thing was, was a corpse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I screamed, "Stop!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It froze in mid-motion, the baby almost at its mouth. I felt the power that animated it. I felt it inside that dead shell. Its master's power was like a dark flame inside it. I had a hand outstretched as if I needed it to point my power. I opened my hand and flared that white rope over the corpse. I covered it in my aura like growing a new body. I closed my aura like a fist around the thing and severed it from the power that made it move. The corpse shuddered, then collapsed instantly like a puppet whose strings had been cut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt its master. I felt him like a cold wind across my skin. I felt him coming for me, following the line of my own aura towards me, like a string through amaze. I tried to pull it back, tried to fold it into myself again, but I'd never tried anything like this before, and I wasn't fast enough. Your aura is your magical shield, your armor. When I lashed out at the corpse, I'd opened myself to anything and everything. I thought I'd understood the risks, but I was wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The master's power lashed out at me like fire following a trail of gasoline, and when it hit, there was a moment where I threw back my head, and I couldn't breathe. I felt my heart flutter and stop. I felt my body fall to the floor, but it didn't hurt, as if I were already numb. My vision went gray, then black, and there was a voice in the blackness. "I have many servants. That you stopped this one is nothing to me. I will feed through others. You die in vain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to form words to answer that voice and found that I could. "Fuck you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt his anger, his outrage that I could defy him,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to laugh at him, at his impotence, but there wasn't enough left of me to laugh. The darkness became something thicker. I passed beyond the master's voice, beyond my own, then there was ... nothing.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_43" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36482722" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36482724" class="calibre7"></a>41 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE FIRST HINT I had that I wasn't dead was pain. The second was light. My chest was burning. I jerked back to consciousness, gasping for air, trying to pull the burning things off of me. I blinked up into a burning white light, then voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold her down!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Weight on my arms and legs, hands holding me down. I tried to struggle, but couldn't feel my body enough to be sure I was moving at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"BP sixty over eighty and dropping fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw shapes, blurred with light moving around me. A sharp jab in my arm, a needle. A man's face swam into view, blond, wire-framed glasses. His face slid back out of sight into a white-rimmed fog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gray spots slid like greasy streamers across my vision, and I felt myself sinking backwards, downwards, outwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man's voice, "We're losing her!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Darkness rolled over me taking the pain, and the light. A woman's voice floated through the dark, "Let me try." Then silence in the dark. There was no alien voice this time. There was nothing but the floating dark and me. Then there was just the dark.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_44" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36482772" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36482774" class="calibre7"></a>42 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I WOKE UP SMELLING sage incense. Sage for cleansing and ridding you of negativity, or so my teacher Marianne was fond of telling me when I complained about the smell. Sage incense always gave me a headache. Was I in Tennessee with Marianne? I didn't remember going there. I opened my eyes to see where I was, and it was a hospital room. If you wake up in enough of them, you recognize the signs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lay there blinking into the light, happy to be awake. Happy to be alive. A woman came to stand by the bed. She was smiling. She had shoulder-length black hair, cut blunt around a strong face. Her eyes seemed too small for the rest of her face, but those eyes stared down at me like she knew things I didn't, and they were good things or at least important ones. She was wearing something long and flowing, violet with a hint of red in the pattern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to talk, cleared my throat. The woman got a glass from the small bedside table, her many necklaces clinking as she moved. She bent the straw so I could drink. One of the necklaces was a pentagram.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not a nurse," I said. My voice still sounded rough. She offered the water again, and I took it. I tried again, and this time my voice sounded more like me. "You're not a nurse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, and the smile turned an ordinary face into something lovely, just as the burning intelligence in her eyes made her striking. "What was your first clue?" She had a soft rolling accent that I couldn't place; Mexican, Spanish, but not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're too well dressed for one thing, and the pentagram." I tried to point at the necklace, but my arm was taped to a board with an IV running into my skin. The hand was bandaged, and I remembered the corpse biting me. I finished the gesture with my right hand, which seemed unharmed. My left arm seemed to have a sign over it that said cut here, bite here, whatever here. I moved the fingers of my left hand to see if I could. I could. It didn't even really hurt, just tight, as if the skin needed to stretch a little.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman was watching me with those eyes of hers. "I am Leonora Evans. I believe you've met my husband."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're Doctor Evans' wife?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He mentioned you were a witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded, again. "I arrived at the hospital in the ... how do you say, nick of time, for you." Her accent thickened when she said, how do you say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down in the chair beside the bed, and I wondered how long she'd been sitting there, watching me. "They restarted your heart, but they couldn't keep life in your body."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, and the beginnings of a headache was starting behind my eyes. "Can you put out the incense? Sage always gives me a headache."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She didn't question it, just got up and moved to one of those little folding tables on wheels that they have in hospitals. There was incense stuck in a small brazier, a long wooden wand, a small knife, and two candles burning. It was an altar, her altar, or a portable version of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take this wrong, but why are you here and a nurse isn't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She spoke with her back to me as she quenched the incense. "Because if the creature that attacked you tried to kill you a second time, the nurse would probably not even notice it was happening until it was too late." She came and sat back down by the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at her. "I think the nurse would notice if a flesh-eating corpse came into the room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled and it was patient, even condescending. "You and I both know that as horrible as its servants are, the true danger is in the master."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes widened. I couldn't help it. Fear thudded in my throat. "How did you ... know that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I touched his power when I helped cast him out of you. I heard his voice, felt his presence. He was willing you to die, Anita, draining you of life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I swallowed, my pulse still too fast. "I'd like a nurse now, please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're afraid of me?" She smiled when she said it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to say no, but then ... "Yeah, but it's not personal. Let's just say after my brush with death, I'm not sure who to trust, magically speaking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying I saved you because this master allowed me to save you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She frowned for the first time. "Trust me on this, Anita. It was not easy to save you. I had to encircle you with protection, and some of that protection was my own power, my own essence. If I had not been strong enough, if the names I called on for aid had not been strong enough, I would have died with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at her and wanted to believe her, but ... "Thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sighed, settling the skirt of her dress with fingers aglitter with rings. "Very well, I will fetch you a familiar face, but then we must talk. Your friend Ted told me of the marks that bind you to the werewolf and the vampire."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something must have shown on my face because she said, "I needed to know in order to help you. I'd saved your life by the time he arrived here, but I was trying to fix your aura, and I couldn't." She passed a hand just above my body and I felt that trail of warmth that was her power caressing over mine. She hesitated over my chest, over my heart. "There is a hole here as if there is a piece of yourself missing." Her hands slid further down my body and hesitated low on my stomach, or high on my abdomen depending on how you looked at it. "Here is another hole. They are both chakra points, important energy points for your body. Bad places to have no ability to shield from magical attack."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart was back to beating faster than it should have. "They are closed. I've worked for the last six months to close them up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Leonora shook her head, taking her hands gently back from me. "If I understand what your friend told me of this triumvirate of power you are a part of, then these spaces are like electrical sockets in the wall of your aura, your body. The two creatures have the plugs that fit their respective sockets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They aren't creatures," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted painted a very unflattering picture of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned. It sounded like something Edward would do. "Ted doesn't like the fact that I'm ... intimate with monsters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are lovers with both then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I mean ... " I tried to think of a quick version. "I was sleeping with them at separate times. I mean for a little while I was ... dating them both at the same time, but it didn't work out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why did it not work?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We were invading each other's dreams. Thinking each other's thoughts. Every time we had sex, it was worse, as if the sex was tying the knots tighter and tighter," I stopped talking, not because I was finished, but because the words weren't enough. I started over. "One night the three of us were alone, just talking, trying to work things out. A thought popped into my head, and it wasn't mine, or I didn't think it was mine, but I didn't know whose thought it was." I looked up at her, trying to will her to understand the moment of sheer terror that had been for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded, as if she did, but her next words said she'd missed the point. "That frightened you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said, making the word two syllables so she'd catch the sarcasm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The lack of control," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The lack of individual privacy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why did you take on these marks?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They would have died if I hadn't done it. We might all have died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you did it to save your own life." She sat there, hands crossed in her lap, perfectly at ease while she probed my psychic wounds. I hate people who are at peace with themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I couldn't lose them both. I might have survived losing one, but not both, not if I could save them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The marks gave you all enough power to overcome your enemies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the thought of sharing your life with them is so terrifying, then why did their deaths loom so large?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth, closed it, tried again. "I loved them, I guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Past tense, loved, not love?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly tired. "I don't know anymore. I just don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you love someone, then your freedom is curtailed. If you love someone, you give up much of your privacy. If you love someone, then you are no longer merely one person but half of couple. To think or behave any other way is to risk losing that love."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not like having to share the bathroom, or argue over which side of the bed you get to sleep on. They're trying to share my mind, my soul."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really believe that last about your soul?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I settled into the pillow, and closed my eyes. "I don't know. I guess not, but it ... " I opened my eyes. "Thank you for saving my life. If I can ever return the favor, I will, but I don't owe you an explanation of my personal life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're quite right." She straightened her shoulders as if pulling herself back, and suddenly she seemed less intrusive, more businesslike. "Let's return to my analogy of the holes being like light sockets, and the men being the plugs that fit them. What you did was spackle over the holes, cover them with plaster. When the master attacked you, his power tore off the plaster and reopened the holes. You cannot close these holes with your own aura. I cannot imagine the amount of effort it took to put patches over them. Ted said you were learning ritual from a witch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "She's more psychic than witch. It's not a religion, just natural ability."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Leonora nodded. "Did she approve of you closing the holes the way you did?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told her I wanted to learn how to shield myself from them, and she helped me do that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did she tell you it was a temporary repair?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at her. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your hostility flares every time we approach the fact that you have given these two men in effect the keys to your soul. You cannot block them permanently, and by trying to you weaken yourself, and probably them as well."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll all just have to live with it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You almost didn't live with it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had my attention now. "Are you saying that the reason the master was able to almost kill me was the weakness in my aura?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He would have hurt you badly, even without them, but I believe the holes made you unable to resist him, especially with them freshly opened as they were. Think of them, perhaps, as wounds, freshly opened wounds that any preternatural infection can enter you through."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about what she was saying. I believed it. "What can I do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The holes are meant to be filled by only one thing, the auras of the men you loved. Your auras must now be like jigsaw puzzles with pieces missing, and only the three of you together are a whole now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't accept that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shrugged. "Accept it or not, but it is still the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not ready to give up the fight just yet. Thanks anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stood, frowning. "Do as you will, but remember that if you come up against other preternatural powers, then you will not be able to protect yourself from them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've been like this for a year. I think I can manage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you that arrogant, orjust that determined not to talk about it any more?" She looked down at me as if she expected an answer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave her the only one I had. "I don't want to talk about it anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "Then I will get your friend, and I'm sure the doctor will want to speak with you." She turned and walked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room was very quiet, full of that hush that hospitals are so fond of. I looked at her makeshift altar and wondered what she'd had to do to save me. Of course, I only had her word for that. The moment I thought it, I was sorry. Why was I so distrustful of her? Because she was a witch, the way Marks hated me because I was a necromancer? Or was it just that I didn't like the truth she was telling me? That I couldn't shield myself from magical critters until the holes in my "aura" had been filled in. It had taken me most of the last six months to fill up those holes. Six months of effort, and they were raw again. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But if they were open, why didn't I sense Jean-Claude and Richard? If the marks were truly unshielded again, then why wasn't there a burst of closeness? I needed to call my teacher Marianne. I trusted her to tell me the truth. She'd warned me that simply blocking off the marks was only temporary. But she helped me do it because she felt I needed some time to adjust, to accept. I wasn't sure I had another six months of meditative prayer, psychic visualization, and celibacy in me. It had taken all that and power, energy. Hers and mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, Marianne had taught me other things, and one of those meant I could check myself. I could run my hand down my own aura and see if the holes were there. The trouble was I needed my left hand for that, and it was wrapped in bandages, strapped to a hoard with a tube in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now that I was alone and not being pestered with hard questions, I began to feel my body. It hurt. Every time I moved my back, it hurt. Some of it was the dull ache of bruises, but there were two spots that had the sharp bite of things that had bled. I tried to remember how I could have cut my back. The glass in the window when the corpse took us back through it, that had to be it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My face ached in a line from jaw to forehead. I remembered the corpse hitting me backhand. It had been almost casual, but it had knocked me half-senseless. Just once I'd like to meet a type of walking dead that wasn't stronger than a living person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted the loose neck of my hospital gown and found little round pads stuck to my chest. I glanced at the heart monitor beside the bed, giving that reassuring sound that said my heart was still working. I had a sudden memory of the moment when my heart had stopped, when the master had willed it to stop. I was suddenly cold, and it wasn't the overly ambitious air conditioner. I'd come very close to dying yesterday ... today? I didn't know what day it was. Only the sunshine pressing against the drawn blinds let me know it was day and not night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were red patches on the skin of my upper body like bad sunburns. I touched one, gently. It hurt. How the hell had I gotten burns? I lifted the gown until it made a cave and I could see down the line of my body, at least until mid-thigh where the weight of the covers hid me from view. There was abandage just below my rib cage. I remembered the thing's mouth opening over my skin while he cradled me, gently. The moment when he bit down ... I pushed the memory away. Later, much, much later. I checked my left shoulder, but the scrape marks from teeth had already scabbed over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Scabbed over? How long had I been out?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man came into the room. He seemed familiar, but I knew I did not know him. He was tall with blond hair and silver-framed glasses. "I'm Doctor Cunningham, and I am very glad to see you awake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Me, too," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled and started checking me over. He used a penlight and made me follow the light, his finger, and kept staring into my eyes so long, he had me worried. "Did I have a concussion?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said. "Why? Does your head hurt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A little but I think it's from the sage incense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked embarrassed. "I am sorry about that, Ms. Blake, but she seemed to think all this was very important, and frankly I don't know why you almost died to begin with, or why you didn't just keep on dying, I let her do what she wanted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought my heart stopped," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tucked his stethoscope into his ears and pressed it to my chest. "Technically, yes." He stopped talking, listening to my heart. He asked me to breathe deeply a couple of times, then made some notes on the chart at the foot of my bed. "Yes, your heart did stop, but I don't know why it stopped. None of your injuries were that serious, or for that matter, that kind of injury," He shook his head and came back to stand by me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did I get the burns on my chest?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We used the defibrillator to start your heart. It can leave mild burns,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long have I been here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Two days. This is your third day with us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took a deep breath and tried not to panic. I'd lost two days. "Have there been any more murders?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile wilted on his face, leaving his, eyes even more serious than they had been. "You mean the mutilation murders?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, no new bodies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let out the breath. "Good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was frowning now. "No more questions about your health? Just about the murders?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said you don't know why I almost died, or why I didn't go ahead and die. I assume that means Leonora Evans saved me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked even more uncomfortable. "All I know is that once we allowed her to lay hands on you, your blood pressure started to go back up, your heart rhythm steadied out." He shook his head. "I simply don't know what happened, and if you knew how hard it is for a doctor, any doctor, to admit ignorance, you'd be much more impressed with me saying that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "Actually, I've been in the hospital before. I appreciate you telling me the truth and not trying to claim credit for my miraculous recovery."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Miraculous is a good word for it." He touched the one thin knife scar on my right forearm. "You have quite a collection of war injuries, Ms. Blake. I believe you have seen a lot of hospitals."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "You're what, twenty-two, twenty-three?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Twenty-six," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You look younger," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's being short," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said, "it isn't. But still to have these kinds of scars at twenty-six is not a good sign, Ms. Blake. I did my residency in a very bad section of a very big city. We used to get a lot of gang members. If they lived to see twenty-six, their bodies looked like yours. Knife scars ... " He leaned across the bed and raised the sleeve of the gown enough to touch the healed bullet wound on my upper arm. " ... bullet wounds. We even had a shapeshifter gang, so I've seen the claw marks and bites, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You must have been in New York," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked. "How did you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's illegal to purposefully give lycanthropy to a minor even with their permission, so the gang leaders were put under a death sentence. They sent in special forces along with New York's finest to wipe them out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "I left the city just before they did that. I'd treated a lot of those kids." His eyes were distant with remembering. "We had two of them shapechange during treatment. Then they wouldn't let them in the hospital anymore. If you wore their colors, you were left to die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most of them probably lived anyway, Doctor Cunningham. If the initial wound doesn't kill them immediately, they probably aren't going to die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you trying to comfort me?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at me. "Then I'll tell you what I told all of them. Get out. Get out of this line of work or you will not live to see forty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was actually wondering if I was going to make it to thirty," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was that a joke?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know the old saying, half in jest, all in seriousness?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can't say I've heard that one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Listen to yourself, Ms. Blake. Take it to heart and find something a little safer to be doing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I was a cop, you wouldn't be saying this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have never treated a policeman that had this many scars. The closest I've ever seen outside the gangs was a marine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you tell him to quit his job?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The war was over, Ms. Blake. Normal military duty just isn't that dangerous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, all serious. I looked back, blank-faced, giving him nothing. He sighed. "You'll do what you want to do, and it's none of my business anyway." He turned and walked towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I called after him. "I do appreciate the concern, Doctor. Honestly, I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, one hand on either side of his stethoscope like it was a towel. "You appreciate my concern, but you're going to ignore my advice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually, if I live through this case, I'm planning to take some time off. It's not the injury rate, doctor. It's the erosion of the ethics that's beginning to get to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tugged on the stethoscope. "Are you telling me that if I think you look bad, I should see the other guy?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gazed down, sort of taking it all in. "I execute people, Doctor Cunningham. There are no bodies to look at."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you mean you execute vampires?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Once upon a time, that's what I meant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We had another long moment of looking at each other, then he said, "Are you saying you kill humans?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm saying that there's not as much difference between vamps and humans as I used to tell myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A moral dilemma," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't envy you the problem, Ms. Blake, but try to stay out of the line of fire until you figure out the answer to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I always try and stay out of the line of fire, Doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Try harder," he said and walked out.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_45" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36483442" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36483444" class="calibre7"></a>43 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">EDWARD CAME IN the door before it had time to swing closed. He was wearing one of those short-sleeved shirts with little pockets on the front. If it had been tan, I'd have said he looked dressed for a safari, but the shirt was black. So were his freshly pressed jeans, the belt that encircled his narrow waist, down to the black-over belt buckle, so it wouldn't shine in the dark and give you away. The belt buckle matched the shoulder holster and gun that outlined his chest. There was a line of white undershirt at the open neck of the shirt, but other than that it was unrelieved blackness. It made his hair and eyes look even paler. It was the first time I'd seen him without the cowboy hat out of doors since I arrived.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you're dressed for my funeral, it's too casual. If it's just street clothes, then you must be scaring the tourists."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're alive. Good," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave him a look. "Very funny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wasn't being funny."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other. "Why so serious, Edward? I asked the doc, and he said there hadn't been any more murders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head and came to stand at the foot of the bed, near the makeshift altar. I ended up looking down the length of the bed at him, and it was awkward. I found the button controls with my right hand and raised the head of the bed slowly. I'd been in enough hospital beds to know where everything was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, there haven't been any more murders," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what's with the long face?" I was paying attention to my body while the bed raised, waiting for it to hurt. I ached all over, which you tend to do after being thrown into walls. My chest hurt, and it wasn't just the burns. I stopped when I was sitting up enough to see him without straining.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a very small smile. "You nearly die, and you ask what's wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at him. "I didn't know you cared."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"More than I should."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know what to say to that, but I tried. "Does this mean you won't kill me just for sport?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked, and the emotion was gone. Edward was standing there staring at me, his usual amused blankness showing on his face. "You know I only kill for money."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bullshit," I said. "I've seen you kill people when you weren't getting a paycheck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only when I'm with you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd tried to play it tough and guylike. He wasn't having any of it. I tried for honesty next. "You look tired, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If there haven't been any more murders, why do you look so beat?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo only got out of the hospital yesterday."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at him "How bad was he hurt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Broken arm, concussion. He'll heal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was still an air to him of strangeness, more than normal Edward strangeness, as if there was more to tell and he didn't want to tell it. "Drop the other shoe, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes narrowed. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me what's got you all bothered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I tried to see Nicky Baco without you or Bernardo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo tell you about the meet?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, your detective friend, Ramirez, told me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That surprised me. "Last time I talked to him, he was sort of insisting that he go along with me to meet Baco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He still wanted to come along, but Baco wouldn't see any of us. He insisted that you and Bernardo, or at least you, had to be there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not upset just because Nicky wouldn't dance with you," I said. "Just tell me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really need Baco, Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just answer the question." I knew Edward well enough to know he meant it. I answered his question or he wouldn't answer mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I need him. He's a necromancer, Edward, and whatever this thing is, it is just a form of necromancy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're a better necromancer than he is, stronger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe, but I don't know much about ritual necromancy. What I do is actually closer to voodoo than traditional necromancy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a dim smile, shaking his head. "And what exactly is traditional necromancy, and how are you so sure that Baco practices it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he was an animator, I'd have heard of him. There just aren't that many of us. So he doesn't raise zombies. But you and everyone else in the metaphysical community in and around Santa Fe say that Baco works with the dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I only know his reputation, Anita. I've never seen him do shit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine, but I've met him. He doesn't do vaudun, voodoo. I've seen that enough to know the trappings and the feel of it. So if he's not a zombie raiser or a vaudun priest, and people still call him a necromancer, then he must do ritual necromancy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which is?" Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To my knowledge it's raising the spirits of the dead for sort of divination purposes or to get questions answered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head. "Whatever Baco does, it has to be worse than raising a few ghosts. People are scared of him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice of you to mention that before I met him the first time,"' I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a deep breath, hands on hips, not looking at me. "I was careless."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "You're a lot of things, Edward. Careless isn't one of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded and looked up at me. "How about competitive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him, but said, "Competitive, I'll give you. But what does that have to do with Baco?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knew that his bar was the hangout for the local werewolves."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him, just stared at him. When I closed my mouth, I said, "You competitive shit. You let Bernardo and me walk in there unprepared. You could have gotten us killed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not even going to ask why I let you walk in blind?" he asked,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me take a wild guess. You wanted to see how I'd handle it cold, maybe how Bernardo would handle it, or maybe both."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fuck, Edward. This isn't a game."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No you don't. You've been keeping things from me from the moment I stepped off the plane. You keep testing my nerve to see if it's better than yours. It is so junior high, so damned ... " I struggled to find the right word " ... such a guy thing to do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry," he said, and his voice was soft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The apology stopped me, drained some of the righteous indignation. "I've never heard you apologize for anything, Edward, not to anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's been a long time since I said I was sorry to anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does this mean the games are over, and you'll quit trying to see who is the biggest, baddest person?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "That's what it means."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lay there and looked at him. "Is it just being with Donna, or is something else starting to open you up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't stop all this sentimental shit, I'll begin to think you're just a mere mortal like the rest of us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Speaking of immortals," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We weren't," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm changing the subject," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If this monster really is an Aztec boogey-man, then it is a hell of a coincidence that the Master of the City, who just happens to be an Aztec, doesn't know anything about it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We talked to her, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you think a vamp, even a master vamp, could do all the things we've been seeing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about it, but finally said, "Not just from vampiric powers, no, but if she were some kind of Aztec sorcerer in life, she might retain her powers after death. I just don't know that much about Aztec magic. It doesn't come up a lot. She was different from any vampire I've ever met. It could mean that she was a sorcerer in life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you need to see her again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what, ask her if she's involved in the murder and mutilation of some twenty people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned. "Something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Okay. When I get out of the hospital, a visit to vampire central goes up to the head of my list."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face went very blank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it, Edward?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really need Baco?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I sensed this thing the first night I arrived or first day. It sensed me right back, and it shielded itself. I haven't picked it up that strongly since, and I've driven past the spot where I felt it. Baco can sense it, too, and he's afraid of it. So yeah, I want to talk to him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't think he's behind it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've felt this thing's power. Baco is powerful, but he's not that powerful. Whatever this thing is, it's not human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed. "Fine." He said it like he'd made a decision. "Baco says you have to meet him before ten this morning or don't bother coming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I searched the room until I found the clock on the wall. It was eight. "Shit," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The doc says you need at least another twenty-four hours in here. Leonora Evans that if the monster tries for you again, you won't make it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You have a point to make," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I almost didn't tell you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was beginning to get pissed. "I don't need you to protect me, Edward. I thought you of all people knew better than that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure you're up to it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I almost just said yes, but I was so tired. It was a bone weariness that had nothing to do with lack of sleep. I was hurt, and it went beyond the bruises and cuts that I could feel. "No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blinked. "You must feel like shit to admit that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've felt better, but something's scaring Baco. If he says meet before ten this morning, we meet. Maybe the great bad thing is coming to get him at eleven today. Can't miss that, can we?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a bag of fresh clothes out in the hall for you. They cut your shoulder holster off of you in the emergency room, and the spine sheath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said, "that spine sheath was a custom job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "You can order a new one." He went to the door, stepped out a moment, then came back in with a small overnight bag. He came around to the side of the bed that Leonora's chair was on. The other side of the bed was a little too crowded with equipment for visitors to stand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened it and started laying out the clothes. His button-down black shirt didn't fit perfectly smoothly around his ribs. He laid out the clothes in neat piles: black jeans, black polo shirt, black socks, even the underwear and bra matched the theme. "What's with the funerary color scheme?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The dark blue polo shirt and jeans were trashed. All you had left was black, red, and purple for shirts. We need something dark today, authoritative."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are you in black, then?" I was watching the way the shirt lay when he moved. It wasn't a gun. I didn't think it was knives. What was under his shirt?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"White shows blood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's under your shirt, Edward?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled and unbuttoned the middle buttons. He had what looked like a modified belly band holster strapped across his upper body. But it wasn't a gun. It was metal pieces, too big to be ammo, and too oddly shaped on the end I could see. They looked like teeny-tiny metal darts ... "Are those some sort of itty-bitty throwing knife?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Bernardo said that if you took out an eye the flayed ones didn't like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I poked out eyes on them twice, and each time it seemed to hurt and disorient them. Truthfully, I didn't think Bernardo noticed what I was doing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled and started buttoning his shirt up. "You shouldn't underestimate him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could you really hit an eye throwing one of those things?" He slipped one out of its little holster and threw it into the wall in one flick of his hand. He pierced one of the tiny designs on the wallpaper across the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't hit shit with something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He retrieved it from the wall and replaced it on his chest, and walked back to me. "You can even have your very own flamethrower, if you want it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gee, and it isn't even Christmas."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Not Christmas, more like Easter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned up at him. "I don't get the Easter reference."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You came back from the dead, or didn't anyone tell you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Tell me what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your heart stopped three times. Ramirez kept it going with CPR until the doctors got to you. But they lost you twice. You were going down for the third time when Leonora Evans convinced them to let her try and save you with some of that good old time religion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart was suddenly beating too hard, and I could have sworn that the inside of my ribs hurt with each beat. "Are you trying to scare me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, just explaining the Easter reference. You know, Christ rose from the dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I get it, I get it." I was suddenly scared and angry. I am rarely one without being the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you still believe in it, I'd light a candle or two," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll think about it," I said, and my voice sounded defensive even to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was smiling again, and I was beginning to distrust his smile almost as much as the rest of him. "Or maybe you should talk to Leonora and ask her who she asked for help to get you back. Maybe it's not a church candle you need to light. Maybe you need to slaughter a few chickens."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wiccans do not kill things to raise power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. "Sorry, they don't teach comparative religion or metaphysics in assassin school."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've scared me, reminded me how hurt I am, and now you're yanking my chain, teasing me. Do you want me to get up out of this bed and meet Baco or not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face was all serious, the last of the humor draining away like ice melting down a hot plate. "I want you to do whatever you need to do, Anita. I thought I wanted to get this son of a bitch at any price." He touched my right hand where it lay on the sheet. He didn't hold it, just touched it, then pulled away. "I was wrong. Some things I'm not willing to pay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Before I could think of anything to say, he turned and left. I wasn't sure which was confusing me more: this case, or the new and more emotional Edward. I caught sight of the clock. Shit. I had an hour and forty minutes to get dressed, check out of the hospital against doctor's orders, and drive to Los Duendos. I was betting arguing with Doctor Cunningham was going to take longer than either of the other two.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_46" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36483980" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36483982" class="calibre7"></a>44 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I PRESSED THE BUTTON to slowly raise the bed. The closer I got to a sitting position, the more I hurt. My chest ached as if the muscles around my ribs had been overused. The cuts on my back did not like sitting up and would probably like walking even less. There was a certain tightness to the skin, like a shoe laced too tightly, that said I had stitches on my back. They would be a pain all their own when I insisted on moving. Nothing feels quite like stitches. I wondered how many I had in my back. It felt like a lot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I was in a sitting position, I waited for a few seconds listening to my body complain. I usually don't get this hurt until the end of a case. I hadn't even met the great-bad-thing face to face yet. It had nearly killed me from a nice supposedly safe distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let myself think about that for a few minutes. I'd almost died. Seems like I should get a few days of grace before having to crawl back into the trenches. But crime and tide wait for no woman, or something like that. I'll admit I thought about just staying put, just letting someone else be heroic for a change. But the moment I seriously thought it, I flashed on the nursery and those red-splashed cribs. I couldn't just lie here and trust that everyone would muddle through without me. I just couldn't do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had my gown halfway down my arms when I realized I couldn't just yank the sticky pads that connected me to the heart monitor. Just yanking them off would give the hospital staff just a little too much excitement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally pressed the nurse call button. I had to get unplugged from all the drips and machines.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nurse came almost immediately, which either meant the hospital had more nurses on staff than most hospitals could afford these days, or I was really hurt and they were paying extra attention to me. I was hoping for a surplus of nurses, but wasn't betting on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nurse was shorter than I am, very petite, with blond hair cut short and sort of bouncy. Her professional smile wilted when she saw me sitting up with the gown obviously coming off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing, Ms. Blake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Getting dressed," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shook her head. "I don't think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, I'd prefer help getting all the tubes and wires off me, but it is all coming off because I'm checking out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll get Doctor Cunningham." She turned and walked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do that," I said to the empty room. I got a death grip on the little wires that attached to the sticky pads and pulled. It felt like I'd pulled a foot worth of skin off with them, a sharp, grinding ache, like it would hurt to touch the skin. The high pitched scream of the machine let people know my heart was no longer going pitty-pat on the other end of the wires. The sound reminded me uncomfortably of the fire alarm, though it was much less obnoxious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pads had left large circular welts on my skin, but they were not nearly as big as they felt. The fact that the welts hurt enough to rise above all the other aches and pains lets you know how raw my skin felt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Cunningham came through the door while I was still working on the tape that bound my hand to the IV board. He turned the screaming heart monitor off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you think you're doing?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Getting dressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like hell you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at his enraged face and just didn't have any anger to throw back at him. I was too tired and too hurt to waste energy on anything but the process of getting up and getting out of this bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have to go, Doctor." I kept picking at the tape and wasn't making much progress. I needed a knife. "Where are my weapons?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ignored the question, and asked one of his own. "Where could you possibly need to go badly enough to climb out of this bed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I need to get back to work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The police can handle things for a few days, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are people who will talk to me that won't talk to the police." I'd gotten an edge of tape up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then your friends in the hallway can talk to them." Doctor Cunningham got points for realizing that Edward and company were the kind of men that people who avoided the police might talk to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This particular person won't talk to anyone but me." I finally stopped picking at the tape. "Can you please get this off of me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a breath, to argue, I think, but what he said was, "I'll help you check out if you let me show you something first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must have looked as suspicious as I felt, but I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be right back," and he left the room. Everyone seemed to be doing that today. He was gone long enough that Edward came in to see what the hold up was. I lifted the taped arm, and he produced a switchblade from his pocket. The blade cut through the tape like paper. Edward always did take good care of his tools.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was still left with having to peel the tape off my arm, and the IV itself had to come out, mustn't forget that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you want it fast, I'll do it," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded, and he ripped the tape off my arm along with the IV. "Ow!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Sissy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sociopath."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Doctor Cunningham came in carrying a large hand mirror. His gaze flicked to Edward and my now free arm. It was not a friendly look. "If you'll step back for a moment, Mr. Forrester?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're the doctor," Edward said, moving back to the foot of the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice of you to remember that," Doctor Cunningham said. He held the mirror in front of my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked startled, eyes too wide and so dark they looked black. I'm naturally pale, but my skin was ghost-white, ethereal like flexible ivory. It was what made my eyes look even darker than normal, or maybe it was the bruise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd known my face hurt, and I'd even known why. Being hit hard enough to slam into a wall should leave a mark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bruise went up to the edge of my cheek, just under the eye, and catty-corner down to my jaw line just under the ear. My skin was a rainbow of purple-black with a core of red skin with darker red scattered across it. It was one of those really deep bruises that probably hadn't even shown much of a mark for the first day, but it would go through all the color changes once it started. I had shades of green, yellow, and brown to look forward to. If I hadn't had three vampire marks on me, I'd have had at least a broken jaw, or maybe a broken neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were moments when I'd give almost anything to be free of the marks, but staring at the bruise, knowing that I healed faster than normal for a human and it still looked this bad, was not one of them. I was grateful to be alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said a brief silent prayer while I stared at my face. "Thank you, dear God, for me not being dead." Aloud, I said, "Nasty," and handed the mirror to the doctor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned; obviously it wasn't the reaction he'd wanted. "You've got over forty stitches in your back."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes went wide before I could stop them. "Gee, that's a record even for me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This isn't a joke, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It might as well be funny, doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you start moving around, you're going to rip the stitches open. Right now, if you're careful, the scars won't be bad, but if you start moving around, you'll scar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "It'll have plenty of company, doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood there, shaking his head slowly, face set in harsh lines. "Nothing I can say is going to make any difference, is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a fool," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I stay in here until I'm healed, what am I going to say to myself when I'm staring down at the next round of bodies?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Saving the world is not your job, Ms. Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not that ambitious," I said. "I'm just trying to save a few lives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you truly believe that only you can solve this case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but I know that I am the only one that ... this man will talk to." I'd almost said Nicky Baco, but I didn't want Doctor Cunningham calling the police and telling them where we were going. Not that he would do that, but better safe than sorry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you that I'd check you out if you looked at your injuries. I keep my word."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I appreciate that in a person, Doctor Cunningham. Thank you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't thank me, Ms. Blake. Don't thank me." He moved towards the door, giving both the makeshift altar and Edward a medium-wide berth, as if both made him uncomfortable. At the door he turned. "I'll send a nurse in to help you dress because you will need the help." He walked out before I could say thank you again. Probably just as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stayed until the nurse arrived. It was a different nurse, tall, light brunette, if that wasn't an oxymoron. Her gaze stayed on my bruised face longer than was politic, and when she helped me slip out of the gown, she gave a low hiss at my back. It was unprofessional and sort of unnurselike. They were usually blankly cheerful to the point of nausea when you were hurt or blunt. Anything to cover that what had happened to you bothered them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll never be able to wear a bra over the stitches in your back," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. I hated to go without a bra. It always made me feel underdressed no matter what else I was wearing. "Let's just get the shirt on."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held it and helped me slip it over my head. Putting my arms up to go through the sleeves made the pain in my back sharp and immediate, as if the skin would pull apart if I moved too quickly. I wondered if that would have been the analogy that I'd chosen if Doctor Cunningham hadn't warned me about the stitches pulling apart. I'd have shrugged if I hadn't been sure it would hurt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I normally work in the nursery," the nurse said as she helped me straighten the shirt, buttoning the first two buttons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at her, not sure what to say. But I didn't need to worry. She knew exactly what to say. "They called me in after you destroyed the monster. For the ... cleanup." She helped me sit on the edge of the bed. I sat there for a few seconds with my legs dangling off the edge, letting my body adjust to the fact that we were getting dressed, we were going to stand ... in just a second.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry you had to see it," I said, because I had to say something, I wasn't even comfortable with her saying I'd "destroyed" the monster. It made it sound entirely too heroic, and what it had felt like was desperate. Desperation is the true mother of invention, at least for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She started to help me into the black panties, but I took them from her hands. If I couldn't even put on my own underwear, I was in serious trouble. And if I was truly that hurt, I needed to know it. It would cut down on my urge to be heroic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to simply bend at the waist, but it just wasn't that easy. I lowered myself downward a little bit at a time, and I was still nowhere near low enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me start them up your legs, so you don't have to bend all the way down," the nurse said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally let her, and even pulling them only part way up my body turned my back into one great big hurt. I leaned against the bed when they were on, and didn't even argue when she bent down to put on my socks. She never argued that I was too hurt to be leaving. It was too obvious to argue about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd worked with Vicki for two years. It was Meg's first job." Her eyes were dry, wide, and I noticed the dark circles under them like purplish smudges, as if she hadn't slept much in the last three days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I remembered the body that had blocked the door into the nursery, and the nurse that had been thrown through the window. Vicki and Meg, though I'd probably never know which had been which, not that it mattered. They were dead and didn't care, and the nurse helping me slip into a pair of black jeans looked too fragile for questions. My job was to listen, and make encouraging noises where needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped the jeans over my butt without help, buttoned them and zipped them all by myself. Things were looking up. I'd tried tucking the shirt into my pants out of habit, but that required more back movement than I thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, untucked, my braless state would be alittle less noticeable. I was really too well endowed to go without, but my modesty wasn't worth the pain, not today.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Every time I close my eyes, I see the babies." She was kneeling with one of my shoes in her hands, when she looked up. "I keep thinking I should be dreaming about my friends, but I only see the babies, their little bodies, and they cry. Every time I close my eyes, I hear the babies screaming. I wasn't there, and I hear them, every night." The tears were finally there, sliding soundlessly down her face as if she didn't know she was crying. She slid the shoe on my foot and looked down, paying attention to what she was doing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"See a councilor or a priest or whoever you trust," I said. "You'll need help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She got my other shoe off the bed, and gazed up at me, the tears drying in tracks down her pale cheeks. "I heard that there's some sort of witch making these corpses, causing them to attack people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not a witch," I said. "What's behind all this isn't human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She slipped the shoe on me, frowning. "Is it immortal like a vampire?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't do my usual lecture about how vamps aren't immortal, only hard to kill. She didn't need that particular lecture. "I don't know yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She laced my shoe solid, but not too tight, as if she did this regularly. She looked up at me with those strange empty eyes of hers, tear tracks still visible on her face. "If it's not immortal, kill it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her face held that absolute trust that is usually reserved for small children or people that are not quite all there. There was no questioning in her shocked eyes, no doubt in that pale face. I answered that trust. Reality could wait until she was ready for it. I said what she needed to hear. "If it can die, I'll kill it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said it because she needed to hear it. I said it because after what I'd seen it do, that was the plan. Maybe it had been the plan all along. Knowing Edward it probably had been. He said solve the case when what he usually meant was kill them, kill them all. As a plan, I'd heard worse. As a way of life, it lacked a certain romance. As a way to stay alive, it was just about perfect. As a way to keep your soul intact, it sucked. But I was willing to trade a piece of my soul to stop this thing. And that was perhaps my biggest problem. I was always willing to compromise my soul if it would take out the great evil. But there always seemed to be another great evil coming down the road. No matter how many times I saved the day and took out the monster, there was always another monster, and there always would be. The monster supply was unlimited. I was not. The parts of myself that I was using up to slay the monsters was finite, and once I used it all up, there would be no going back. I'd be Edward in drag. I could save the world and lose myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And staring down into the woman's face, watching that perfect faith fill her lost eyes, I wasn't sure the bargain was a good one, but I was sure of one thing. I couldn't say no. I couldn't let the monsters win, not even if it meant becoming one of them. God forgive me if it was arrogance. God protect me if it wasn't. I got up out of bed and went in search of monsters.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_47" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36484385" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36484387" class="calibre7"></a>45 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I WAS BUCKLED into the front seat of Edward's Hummer, holding myself stiff and careful, glad the ride was smooth. Bernardo and Olaf were in the back seat, dressed in someone's idea of assassin chic. Bernardo was in a leather vest. His cast looked very white and awkward, right arm at a forty-five degree angle, a white strap going from arm to around his neck. His long hair was done in a vaguely oriental style, with one large, deceptively loose knot held back with what looked like two long gold chopsticks. It held back the sides of his hair, but left most of the length swinging free down his back. Black jeans of a looser cut with holes worn through across his knees, and the black boots I'd seen him wear since I arrived. But who was I to complain? I had three pairs of black Nikes, and I had brought all three with me,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a swollen bump to the side of his forehead and bruises like a pattern of modern art tattoos down one side of his face. His right eye was still puffy around one edge. But he managed not to look pale or ill like I did. In fact, if you could ignore the cast and bruises, he looked dandy. I hoped he felt as good as he looked, because I looked like shit and felt worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who did your hair?" I asked, because with only one good arm, I knew he hadn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf," he said, and that one word was very bland, very empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I widened my eye and looked over at Olaf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat beside Bernardo on the side behind Edward, as far from me as he could get and still be in the car. He hadn't spoken a word to me since I walked out of the hospital room and the four of us walked to the car. It hadn't bothered me at the time because I'd been too busy trying to walk without making small pain noises under my breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whimpering while you walked was always a bad sign. But now I was sitting down and as comfortable as I was likely to get for a while. I was also in a momentously bad mood because I was scared. I felt physically weak and not up to a fight. Psychically, my hard-won shields were crap again, full of holes, and if the "master" tried for me again, I was in very deep shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Leonora Evans had given me a woven silk cord with a little drawstring bag on it. The little bag was lumpy, packed full with small hard objects that felt like rocks, and dry crumbling things that were probably herbs. She'd told me not to open the bag because that would let all the goodness out. She was the witch, so I did what she told me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bag was a charm of protection, and it would work without my believing in its power. Which was good since except for my cross I didn't believe in very much. Leonora had been making the charm for three days, since she saved me in the emergency room. She had not intended it to be a cure all for the holes in my defenses, but it was all she had to give me on such short notice. She was almost as angry with me as Doctor Cunningham had been for leaving the hospital early.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She had taken one of her own necklaces and placed it over my head. It was a large piece of polished semiprecious stone. A strange dark gold color, Citrine for protection and to absorb negativity and magical attacks directed at me. To say that I wasn't a big believer in crystals and the new age was an understatement, but I took it. Mainly because she was so angry and so sincerely worried about me out in the world with my aura hanging open for the bad guys to munch on. I knew I had holes in my aura. I could feel them, but it was all just a little too hocus-pocus for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So I turned in my seat, feeling the stitches in my back tighten, adding a little push to the pain I was already feeling, and stared at Olaf. He was staring out the window as if there was something fascinating in the rows of small houses on that side of the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He never moved, just watched the passing scenery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf!" It was almost a yell in the small confines of the car. His shoulders twitched, but that was all. It was like I was some kind of insect buzzing around him. You might wave a hand at it, but you wouldn't talk to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It pissed me off. "Now I understand why you don't like women. You should have just said you were homosexual, and my feelings wouldn't have been so hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward said, softly, "Jesus, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf turned very slowly almost in slow motion as if each muscle in his neck were pulling him around in small jerks. "What -- did -- you -- say?" Each word was rage-filled, hot with hatred.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You did a great job on Bernardo's hair. You made him look very pretty." I didn't believe that particular sexual stereotype, but I was betting that Olaf did. I was also betting that he was homophobic. A lot of ultramasculine men are.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He undid his seatbelt with a noticeable click and eased forward. I pulled the Firestar out of the holster that was sitting in my lap. The pants that Edward had brought to the hospital were a little too tight for my innerpants holster. I watched Olaf's hand vanish underneath the black leather jacket. Maybe he hadn't understood the movement when I'd unholstered the gun. Maybe he expected me to raise the gun and sight along the back of the car. I pointed the gun between the small space between the seats. It wasn't a perfect angle, but I had my gun pointed first, and that counted in a gun fight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd pulled his gun out from under the jacket, but it wasn't pointed yet. If I'd meant to kill him, I'd have won.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward slammed on the brakes. Olaf slammed into the back of the seat, gun at a bad angle, driving his wrist backwards. It wasn't being thrown into the seatbelt, and nearly the dashboard that hurt. It was the being flung backwards into the seat. My breath went out in a sharp gasp. Olaf's face ended up very close to the space between the seats, and he saw the gun barrel pointed, now, at his chest. I was hurting so bad that my skin twitched with the need to writhe, but I kept my hand tight around the gun, using my free hand to brace myself and make sure I didn't move. I had the drop on him, and I was keeping it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Hummer skidded to a stop against the curb. Edward had his seatbelt off and was whirling around in his seat. I caught the flash of a gun in his hand and had a heartbeat to decide whether to try and take the gun off Olaf and try for Edward, or keep the gun where it was. I kept the gun on Olaf, I didn't think Edward would shoot me, and Olaf might.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shoved the barrel of his gun against the back of Olaf's bald head The tension level in the car skyrocketed. Edward went to his knees, gun never moving from Olaf's head. I could see Olaf's eyes rolled up. We looked at each other, and I saw that he was afraid. He believed that Edward would do it. So did I, though I didn't know why, and with Edward there was always a why, even if it was only money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a sense of Bernardo sitting very stiff on his side of the seat, trying to pull back from the mess that was about to spill all over the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you want me to kill him?" Edward asked. His voice was quiet and empty, as if he'd asked, did I want him to pass the salt. I could do an empty uninterested voice, but not like Edward. I could never be that dispassionate, not yet anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I said, "No," automatically, then added, "not like this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something passed through Olaf's eyes. It wasn't fear. It was more like surprise. Surprise that I hadn't said, yeah, shoot him, or surprise about something else I couldn't fathom. Who knew?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward took the gun from Olaf's hand, then clicked the safety off on his own gun, and leaned back still on his knees in the driver's seat. "Then stop baiting him, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf sat back in his seat, slowly, almost stiffly as if afraid to move too quickly. Nothing like having a gun to your head to teach you caution. He smoothed his hands down the leather jacket, which still looked like way too much to wear in the heat. "I will not owe my life to any woman." His voice was sort of subdued, but it was clear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I eased the Firestar back out from between the seats, and said, "Consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds, Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me. Maybe he didn't get the quote.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at both of us, shaking his head. "You're both scared, and that makes you both stupid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not scared," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ditto," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me. "You just crawled out of a hospital bed. Of course, you're scared. Wondering if the next time you meet the monster will be your last."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked back at him, and it was not a friendly look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you picked a fight with Olaf because you'd rather fight him than be scared."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just like a woman to be so irrational," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned to the big man. "And you, Olaf, you're afraid that Anita is tougher than you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've been quiet ever since we saw the mess at the hospital. Ever since you heard what Anita did, how much damage she took and survived. You're wondering just how good is she? Is she as good as you are? Is she better?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is a woman," Olaf said, and his voice was thick with some dark emotion as if he was choking on it. "She cannot be as good as I am. She cannot be better than I am. That is not possible."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't make this a competition, Edward," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because you will lose," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not going to arm wrestle you, Olaf. But I will stop picking on you. I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf blinked at me as if he couldn't quite follow the conversation. I didn't think I'd overstepped his English, more like his logic circuits were overloading. "I do not need your pity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved up from being "she" or "a woman" to a neuter pronoun. It was a start. "It's not pity. I acted badly. Edward's right. I'm scared, and fighting with you is a nice diversion."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "I don't understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it's any consolation, you confuse me, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward smiled, his Ted smile. "Now kiss and make up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We both frowned at him and said simultaneously, "Don't push it," and "I do not think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," Edward said. He looked at Olaf's gun in his hand for a second, then handed it back with a lot of heavy-duty eye contact. "I need you to be my backup, Olaf. Can you do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded once and took the gun slowly from Edward's hand. "I am your backup until this creature is dead, then we will talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "I look forward to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Bernardo, but his face told me nothing, nothing except that it had gone blank and empty and confirmed what I was thinking. Olaf had just warned Edward that when the case was over, he would try and kill him. Edward had agreed to it. Just like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just one big happy family," I said into the thick silence that had filled the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned around in his seat and buckled back in. He gave me sparkling Ted eyes. "And just like family we'll fight among ourselves, but we're much more likely to kill an outsider."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Actually," I said, "the vast majority of murders are done by your nearest and dearest blood relatives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Or spouse, don't forget the spouse," Edward said and put the car in gear, pulling carefully out into the sparse traffic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like I said, your nearest and dearest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you said blood relative, and there's no blood between husband and wife."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sharing one body fluid or another, doesn't seem to matter. We kill those we're closest to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We are not close," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, we are not close," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I hate you all the same," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke without turning around. "Right back at you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And I thought the two of you would never agree on anything," Bernardo said. His voice was cheerful, joking. No one laughed.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_48" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36484713" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36484715" class="calibre7"></a>46 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE BLACK-PAINTED FRONT of the bar looked tired in the morning sunlight. You could see where the paint was cracked and beginning to peel. The front of the bar looked almost as neglected as the rest of the street. Maybe Nicky Baco hadn't tried to run the other businesses off. Maybe it had been an accident. Standing there in the soft heat of morning, I felt something I hadn't felt at night. It was as if the street had been used up in a mystical sense. I'd felt very strongly when I'd been here last time that Baco had drained the street of vitality, caused this to happen, but if that were true, then it hadn't been enough energy to sustain him. Or maybe all that negativity was finally coming home to roost. Most systems of magic or mysticism have rules of conduct, things you do and things you do not. You break the rules at your peril. The wiccans call it the threefold law: what you do to others comes back to you threefold. Buddhists call it karma. Christians call it answering for your sins. I call it what goes around comes around. It really does, you know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the Firestar tucked into the front of my pants, minus the innerpants holster, because the gun could ride higher and not dig in as much. Edward had loaned me a paddle holster for the Browning, and I had ended up with it in front, so that I looked like one of those wild west gunslingers with two guns crossed over my hips. Though actually the black polo shirt came down low enough to hide both guns. Untucked, most shirts are too long on me. It looked sloppy, but it did hide the guns if you weren't looking too close. The polo shirt was a little too close to the body not to show telltale lumps, though Edward had been thoughtful enough to bring my black suit jacket, which helped camouflage the lumps. Last time I'd been here with guns I'd had the police backing me, but now we were taking guns into a bar, very illegal in New Mexico. Strangely, it wasn't a big worry, but I did hope the cops didn't choose today for a raid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I still had the wrist sheaths plus knives on my wrists. Ramirez had collected all my knives from the inferno and given them to Edward, who had scrubbed, cleaned, oiled, and sharpened them to an inch of their lives. I'd had to leave the big blade in the car because I couldn't figure out how to carry it concealed, and carrying what amounted to a small sword barehanded seemed a little too aggressive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had even given me an incendiary grenade for my jacket pocket. It helped balance out the derringer in my right hand pocket so that the jacket didn't swing too funny as I walked. The derringer had been his idea, too, though I had brought it with me from St. Louis. I wasn't sure I really needed it today, but I'd learned never to argue with Edward when he gave me a weapon. If he thought I might need it, I almost certainly would. Scary thought on the grenade, isn't it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At some unknown signal, Olaf moved up and tried the bar door. It was locked. He knocked twice hard enough to rattle the door. He also stood right in front of the door. After staring down a sawed-off shotgun the last time I came to the bar, I might not have stood facing front at that black door. Either Olaf hadn't heard about the shotgun, or he didn't care. Maybe he was trying to be muy macho for my benefit or maybe for his own benefit. If he'd been more secure in himself, then he wouldn't have been so easy to piss off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even standing off to one side, the sound of the locks being drawn back was loud. Good, solid locks just from the sound of it. The door pushed open, slowly, showing a thick slice of darkness like a cave pressing against the sunlight. The door continued to push slowly open as if on its own power. Only at the very last did a large beefy arm come into view, spoiling the illusion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo stood in the doorway peering out at us, eyes hidden behind the same small black sunglasses he'd been wearing the first time I saw him. He had changed clothes, though. He was wearing a jean vest open over a very hairy chest and stomach. He looked more like a bear than a werewolf. He looked like a great big sleepy bear that had rolled out of bed, pulled on some clothes and rumbled out to the door. Even his otherworldly energy seemed dimmer than last time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he blocked the door with his bulk, and growled out, "Anita, but not the others."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved around Olaf, and he actually moved back so I could face Harpo. Either Olaf was being nicer, or he figured better me than him in the door. "Nicky said I could bring some friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo peered down at me. "Looks like you need better friends."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't touch the bruise. It wouldn't help. "Let's just say I was relying on police backup and they were late." Which was true, and I still wanted to know where the hell Ramirez had been while I'd been playing lone ranger. I like policemen, but I knew the comment would please Harpo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did. He smiled a quick baring of teeth that flashed wolf fangs in the thickness of his beard. He had definitely been spending too much time in wolf form. There was a low murmuring voice, male. Harpo turned to look over one massive shoulder towards the voice. Then he turned back to me. The smile was gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Boss says you were invited but not the others."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave a very small shake of my head because a big one would have hurt. "Look, Nicky invited me here. He said I could bring friends. I brought them. I'm here before ten in the fucking morning. I came down here to talk about our common problem, not to be dicked around at the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This ain't dicking around," Harpo said, hand cupping his groin. "I can show you dicking around."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I held up a hand. "Fine, my mistake for using the wrong word. I didn't come down here to be stopped at the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still rubbing himself, getting into it or trying to piss me off. He'd succeeded on the last. I was so not standing here with forty-plus stitches in my back watching some werewolf ape jack off before I'd even had coffee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am too tired for this shit," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to get a little body language into it, smiling at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised my voice so it would carry into the open door of the bar. "I am not going anywhere today without my friends here. If you're waiting for me to give in on that point, then we're wasting each other's time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no answer from inside the bar. Harpo had gotten a little hip action into his show. I'd had enough. "When the monster sucks your life out, Nicky, don't worry. It doesn't really hurt. Have a nice day."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned to my friends. "They're not going to let us see Nicky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward nodded. "Then let's go." He made a small motion, and Bernardo and Olaf moved off down the sidewalk. Edward lagged a little behind with me. I think we were both hoping that Harpo would call my bluff. Except it was only partially a bluff. We could have forced our way in there with weapons, but Nicky wouldn't talk at the end of a gun. I needed a dialogue, not an interrogation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started walking away. Edward fell into step behind me, but kept an eye on our backs. I wasn't flexible enough to do much back trailing without turning my entire body around which was awkward. Besides I trusted Edward to watch our backs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I admit there was a tension between my shoulder blades, waiting for Harpo to come running out and say come back, let's talk. But he didn't. So I kept walking. Olaf and Bernardo were beside the Hummer waiting for Edward to unlock the doors.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were actually getting in the car when Harpo appeared on the sidewalk and started to walk towards us. He looked unarmed, but not happy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat in the seat, and closed the door. "Start the engine," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward did what I told him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo started jogging towards us waving those big arms. Some shapeshifters run like their animal counterparts, all grace and God-given motion. Harpo was not one of those. He ran awkwardly, as if he hadn't done it in a while, at least not in human form. It made me smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You just wanted to see him run," Edward said. "Petty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, it's petty. Fun though," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put the car in gear, and Harpo put on a burst of awkward speed. He got to the car as Edward was starting to pull away. He actually slammed a big meaty hand on the hood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stopped. My window glide down, and I looked up at Harpo. There was sweat beading on his naked chest. His breath came harsh and too quick. "Fuck," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you want something?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Boss says -- that you can all -- come inside." He was leaning his hands against the Hummer while he got his breath back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pulled the car back into the curb, while Harpo moved so there was room. We all got back out of the car. Harpo was still not breathing right. "Aerobic exercise is the key to good cardiovascular health," I said, sweetly, as we waited for him to start walking back to the bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fuck you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about getting back in the Hummer, but I'd played the game as far as I was willing to go. I wanted to talk to Baco, but only with backup. Harpo had said I could do both. I'd achieved my goal. Anything else was pure childishness. I was feeling petty, but not that petty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he recovered, he was once again the sunglass-wearing muscle man, face impassive. He strode back, hands in loose fists, doing his best impression of a moving mountain of flesh. His otherworldly energy prickled along my skin. Just a whisper of power, as if it were leaking out without him meaning for it to. Which probably meant he was pissed. Strong emotions made it harder to hold all that vibrating energy inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">None of us spoke on the short walk back. Men are usually not good at useless small talk or don't see a need for it, and I was just too busy concentrating on walking normally without giving away just how much it hurt to chitchat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harpo held the door for us. I glanced at Edward. He gave me blank eyes back. Fine. I walked inside and the others followed. Three days ago I'd have been nervous stepping into that dark with the vibrating energy of werewolves rising like an invisible tide. But that was three days ago, and there just wasn't that much fear left in me. My body hurt, but the rest of me was oddly numb. Maybe I'd finally crossed that line that Edward seemed to live behind. Maybe I'd never really feel anything again. When even that thought didn't scare me, I knew I was in trouble.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_49" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36484942" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36484944" class="calibre7"></a>47 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT TOOK A SECOND for my eyes to adjust to the dark interior, but it wasn't my eyes that told me something was wrong. It was the skin on the back of my neck. I didn't argue with it. I had my hand on the Browning underneath the shirt and didn't care if it gave away the fact that I was carrying a gun. They'd be fools to think we'd come in here unarmed. Los Lobos Biker Club might have a lot of faults, but being that kind of fool wasn't one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky Baco was lying on the bar with his hands tied to his ankles so that the ropes formed a sort of handle like he was some kind of carry-on bag. His face was bloody and bruised, and the injuries were a lot fresher than mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had the Browning out, and I felt rather than saw the other three fan out until we were the corners of a box, and each corner held a gun. Each corner watched its section of the room, and whether we liked each other or not, I trusted all of us to take care of our sections of the room, even Olaf. It was good to be sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My part of the room included the bar with Nicky on it; a tall man with a beard, and a curl of waist-length pony tail over one shoulder; two wolves the size of ponies; and a man's body staring sightless at the room, his throat cut like a second mouth red and screaming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a peripheral sense of the how full the room was of crowding bodies. The energy was thick enough to choke on. I heard a noise to the right and did three things almost simultaneously. I pointed the Browning at the noise, drew the Firestar left-handed to point at the man with the ponytail, and let my eyes flick to the side to see what I'd heard. Good that I'd been practicing left-handed firing drills. The heavy slithering sound came again from behind the bar. The bar was in my section of the room. It was my ball, so to speak. I felt the others surging forward like a trembling tide about to swallow us all. We could shoot a lot of them, but there had to be over a hundred in this room and we were dead if they all came at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fear tightened my stomach, jerking my pulse into my throat. Just like that the numbness was gone, chased away by adrenaline, and the musky scent of wolves. There were more wolves than just the two in front of me out in that packed, darkened room. I could smell them. My stomach jerked again, but not from fear. The mark that tied me to Richard, tied me to his pack, was alive again. It flared in my body like a tiny flame reborn, waiting to be fed so it could grow. Great, just great. I had to worry about it later. My concentration was all used up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ponytailed man just stood there smiling. He was handsome in a rough around the edges, tattooed prison sort of way. Even in the dimness his eyes flashed wolf amber, not human. I also knew what, or would that be who, I was looking at. This was their Ulfric, their wolf king. He stood in a space of emptiness with most of the pack huddled further back into the room, and yet his power made up for theirs. His power filled the nearly empty side of the room with a flesh-creeping energy like thunder just before it strikes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tension was thick enough that I had to swallow some of it before I could speak. "Greetings, Ulfric of the Los Lobos clan. What's shaking?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He threw his head back and laughed, a big hearty, good-natured sound that ended with a howl that crawled out of his human throat and down my spine. "Nice effect," I said, "but this is an official police investigation into the mutilation murders. I'm sure you've heard about them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned those startling pale eyes to me. "I've heard."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you know that we aren't investigating your pack."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laid a casual hand on Nicky, who whimpered even though I don't think it really hurt. "Nicky is my vargamor. If the police wish to speak with him, then they must ask me first." He smiled, and I was close enough to notice that his teeth were human, no fangs for the Ulfric.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry. The only other pack I've ever met that had a vargamor doesn't make you talk to the Ulfric first. My apologies on the oversight." I hoped whatever we were doing was going to be over soon, because I couldn't keep up the gun in each hand stance for long. I'd practiced left-handed, but it was still my weak hand, and the bite in it was already starting a faint tremble in the muscles. I had to be able to lower my hand soon or it would begin to shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you were the police, then I would accept your apologies. We are always ready to help the police." That last brought a wave of snickers from the packed house. "But I don't see any police in this room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm Anita Blake. I'm a vampire executioner ... "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cut me off. "I know who you are. I know what you are." I didn't like that last, made me nervous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And just what am I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are the lupa of the Thronnos Roke clan, and you have come to my clan for help, but you have not honored me or my lupa. You enter my lands without permission. You contact my vargamor without talking to me first, and you give us no tribute." His power grew with every sentence until it was like standing in warm water up to your chin, knowing that if it got much deeper you'd drown.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I understood the rules now. I'd insulted him, and he had to wipe out that insult. I'd try sweet reason, but I didn't have much hope for it. Besides, my left arm was getting tired. Hell, so was my right. Whatever was behind the bar moved in a huge roll of motion that you could feel and hear. It sounded bigger than a werewolf,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I flew down here on police business. I did not enter your lands as lupa of the Thronnos Roke clan. I came down here as Anita Blake, the Executioner, that's all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you contacted my vargamor." He slapped Nicky's thigh, and that did seem to hurt, because he closed his eyes and writhed at the touch, straining through his gag to scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know Nicky was your vargamor until after I'd talked to him. No one told me that this bar was your lair. You're Ulfric. You can smell that I'm not lying."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small nod. "You tell the truth." He looked at the small man on The bar, running his hand over his body the way you'd stroke a dog, though the dog doesn't usually wince and try to pull back. "But he knew that he was my vargamor. Nicky knew that you were a lupa of another clan. It was the hot topic for a while, a human lupa."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lupa's often just another word for the Ulfric's girlfriend," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned those golden eyes to me, more gold because of the heavy black eyebrows that framed them. "Nicky agreed to help you without asking me later, or even telling me about your visit." He gave a low growl that refreshed the fading goosebumps on my skin. "I am Ulfric. I lead here." He slapped Nicky and fresh blood trickled from his nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I badly wanted to put a stop to the abuse, just out of principle, but I didn't want it badly enough to die for it, so I waited and watched Nicky Baco bleed. I didn't like it, but I let it happen. My left hand was beginning to cramp. I needed to either start shooting people or put my guns up. Even holding my arms out for this long was putting a strain on my back and chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," Edward said, and just the tone of my own name was enough. He was quietly telling me to hurry it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look, Ulfric, I didn't mean to walk into some inner pack squabble. I'm just trying to do my job. Trying to keep more innocent people from being killed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Humans are fun," he said. "Sex and a meal and you never have to leave your car. But-you-do-not-make-them-your-queen!" His voice rose until with the last word he was screaming. Howls echoed him from the mob that was pressing close and closer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," Edward said, and this time there was more of a warning to his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm working on it, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Work faster," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're a racist, Ulfric," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at me. "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm human so I'm good enough to fuck, good enough to kill but not good enough to be your equal just because I'm human. You're a racist chauvinistic big bad wolf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You come into my lands, ask aid of my pack, give no tribute to me or my lupa, and now you're calling me names." I don't know if he made some kind of psychic signal or his anger was enough, but the two giant wolves at his feet began to stalk forward on stiff legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My left hand was beginning to shake, visibly. Whatever was behind the bar thrashed, sounding large and bestial. My left hand was threatening to give out completely, and I needed both hands. "You die first, Ulfric," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What?" and he sort of laughed when he said it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The first thing that jumps any of us, and I shoot you. No matter what else happens today, you'll be dead. Your two pony wolves better stop right where they are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your hand is shaking so badly, I don't think you've got it in you to kill anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn to laugh. "You think my hand is shaking because I feel remorse about the thought of shooting you. Boy, have you got the wrong girl. Look at my right hand, Ulfric. It's not shaking. A walking corpse took a bite out of my left hand a couple of days ago, so I'm a little shaky with my left, but trust me. I hit what I aim at." This is usually when I give my victim full eye contact and let them know I'm not bluffing, but I was divided between the Ulfric and his entourage, and the bar. "How many of your wolves are you willing to sacrifice for your wounded pride?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If we fight, Anita, you and your friends will die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you'll die, and some of your best people, so wouldn't it be nice to avoid the carnage and have you tell me what the hell you want from me. You know I'm telling the truth. I didn't know that I was stepping on your toes. If Nicky is making some kind of power play behind your back, I didn't know it. So, tell me what you want to make this ... social gaffe okay between us. Tell me before my left hand starts spasming so badly that I start shooting things just because I have to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was watching me very narrowly, and I saw intelligence behind all the bragging and pride. There might be somebody home to bargain with. If there wasn't, then we were going to die. We were going to die, not because of the case but because I had been at one time Richard's girlfriend. It was a stupid reason to die.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tribute, I want the lupa of the Thronnos Roke Clan to give me tribute."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean a gift," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "If it's the right kind of gift, yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I'd been coming to Albuquerque with Richard on personal business I'd have expected to make a gift to the local pack. The gift was usually a freshly killed animal, jewelry for the lupa, or something mystical. Death, jewelry, or magic. I didn't have any jewelry on me except Leonora's necklace, and I wasn't exactly sure what it would do for someone other than me. For all I knew it might be harmful, if it was just handed out. I didn't have enough information. The charm was so not leaving my body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lowered my left hand. One, it was twitching so badly, I wasn't a hundred percent sure I could hit anything with it. Two, I couldn't keep pointing guns if we weren't going to kill people. Three, my hand was hurting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your word that if I give you a suitable gift, we all leave here in safety."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd take the word of an ex-con, drug dealing, biker gang leader?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but I'll take the word of the Ulfric of the Broken Spear Clan. That I'll take." There were rules, and if he broke his word as Ulfric, he lost brownie points. He had to be on shaky ground anyway for a human, no matter how magically powerful, vargamor to have challenged his authority. He wouldn't give his word and break it, not in front of his pack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am Ulfric of the Broken Spear Clan, and I give my word that you will all go in safety, if your gift is worthy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't like the wording on that last. "I didn't have time to stop at Tiffany's and pick up something for the little lady. Didn't get to hunt on the way here from the hospital. Cops frown on you shooting animals in town. The mystical shit is beyond me today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you have nothing worthy," he said, but he looked puzzled as though he was sure I had a gift of some kind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me see what's behind the bar, and I'll put up my guns and make tribute." I'd tried to put up the Firestar, but my left hand was shaking so badly that I couldn't raise the shirt and slide it inside my pants. I needed two hands for it. Which meant I needed to be able to holster the Browning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Done," he said. "Monstruo, rise, greet our guest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It rose above the bar in a thin line of pale flesh like the rising of a crescent moon, then a face came into view. It was a woman's face with one eye gone stiff and dry like some kind of mummy. Face after face, rose brown and withered like a string of monstrous beads, strung together with pieces of body, arms, legs, and thick black thread like gigantic stitches holding it all together, holding the magic inside. It rose up and up until it towered against the ceiling, curving like a giant snake to stare down at me. I estimated forty heads, more, before I lost count, or lost heart to count anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werewolves had moved back further into the room like the tide retreating backwards. They feared the thing. I didn't blame them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard Bernardo say, "Fuck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf said something in German, which meant he wasn't watching his part of the room. Only Edward remained silent and on the job, ever vigilant. I have to admit that if the werewolves had wanted to jump me while that thing rose above me like some demented snake I would have been slow. It was too much horror to leave room for anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd only seen something like it once before. That monster had been made by the most powerful vaudun priestess I'd ever met. But hers had been formed of fresh zombies and pulled seamlessly together into one monstrous ball of flesh. Pure magic. This had been stitched together like Frankenstein's monster, and the bodies being dead like that, dried, deliberately mummified, or an after effect of the spell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I dragged my gaze from the thing to the Nicky Baco still lying on the bar, gagged and bound and bloody. I heard my voice like a distant thing, "Why, Nicky, you bad, bad boy." I'd made a joke, when what I wanted to do was put a gun to his head and blow him away. Some things you did not do. Some things you simply did not do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see why he's still alive," the Ulfric said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Too powerful to get rid of," I said, voice still oddly detached, as if I wasn't really concentrating on what I was saying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I used him as my threat. He would lay his magic on a wolf that was misbehaving, and they would be turned into what you see. And he would stitch them into the monstruo. But my wolves fear him now more than they fear me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was nodding over and over because I couldn't think of a good thing to say. Alive, they were alive when Nicky did his magic. I had a truly awful thought. Somehow it seemed wrong to be putting away the guns, but I needed my hands for other things. I raised the shirt and slid the Browning home, though it wasn't as smooth as it would have been if the holster had been familiar. But my left hand was pretty much gone. I had to raise the shirt with my right and very carefully tuck the Firestar into the front of my pants. Even after the hand was empty, it continued to twitch uncontrollably. There was nothing I could do but wait for it to calm down on its own. I cradled the hand against my body and walked towards the monster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood on the other side of the bar from it, looking at one of those dried faces. The mouth had been sewn shut on this one. I didn't know why. I took a few deep cleansing breaths, and there was an odor of herbs to it, but mostly just a dry smell like tanned leather and dust. I reached out with my left hand. Even with the bandages and the muscle cramps this was still my power hand, the hand to sense magic with. Most people have a hand that is better for sensing stuff, usually the opposite hand from the one you write with. I have no idea what ambidextrous people do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an amazing amount of power pushing out from the thing, but the bar was wide and I was hurt so my concentration wasn't good, and I still couldn't answer the one question I needed answered. I used my right hand to sort of jump-sit on the bar, then got onto my knees. There was a face at eye level with me, and this one had eyes. A man's face, I think, with pale grey wolf eyes trapped in a dried mummy face. Those eyes stared out at me, and there was someone home. The walking dead don't show fear. I knew what I'd feel before I stretched my hand out toward the face. There was Nicky's power like a warm blanket of worms, squirming over my skin. It was some of the most uncomfortable magic I'd ever felt, unclean, as if the power itself would eat your flesh if you stayed too close to it for too long. This was where Nicky's energy had gone, and this was why no matter how much energy he gathered, it would never be enough. Magic this negative, this evil, is like a drug. It takes more and more energy to get the same result with worse and worse effect on the spellcaster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sent my own magic into that mess, not to empower, but seeking. I felt the cool brush of a soul, and before I could pull back, my power ran up that column of trapped flesh, and the souls glowed behind my eyelids with cool white light. None of them had been dead when he did this to them. I wasn't a hundred percent sure they were dead now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my eye and pulled my hand back from the thing. His power sucked at my hand like invisible mud. I pulled free with an almost audible pop. The man's face moved its withered mouth, and made a long dry sound, twice. "Help," it said, "help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I swallowed a wave of nausea and was very glad I'd missed breakfast. I crawled on one arm and my knees to Nicky. I bent over him and whispered, "Would burning it free their souls?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you free their souls?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think if he'd said yes to the first question, I'd have put the Browning to his head and killed him. But I needed him to free them, and I added that to my list of things to do before I left town. But there was nothing I could do for them today, except stay alive, and strangely, keep Nicky Baco alive. One of life's little ironies, that last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat on the bar with my legs dangling over the edge, hand cradled to my chest, dazed with the sheer evil of it. I'd seen my share, but this was near the top. This was near the top after what I'd seen in the hospital. At least the corpses were just eating bodies, not souls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You look like you've seen a ghost," the Ulfric said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're closer than you know," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where is our gift?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's your lupa?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stroked the head of one of the wolves by his legs. "This is my lupa."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't share the gift with anyone in animal form," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned, and it was very close to being angry. "You must honor us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I plan to." I rolled the sleeve of my jacket back over my left arm. The wrist sheath had to go. I undid the straps, propping the blade, sheath and all between my legs. The monster hovered behind me, peering curiously. It was distracting me. I couldn't save them today, and didn't want to see it anymore until I could fix it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you order it to leave the room?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me. "Scared?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can feel the souls crying out for help. It's sort of distracting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and I watched the color drain from his face. "You mean that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled, but not like it was funny. "You didn't know that he's trapping their souls in that thing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He said he was." His voice had gone softer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't believe him," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ulfric was gazing up at the thing as if he'd never seen it before. "You wouldn't believe something like that, would you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I would." I shrugged, wished I hadn't, and said, "but then this is my line of work. Can you please send it away?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, and spoke rapidly in Spanish. The thing folded down on itself and crept away on arms and legs and bodies like a broken centipede. Sitting on the bar, I could see it go down a trap door behind the bar. When the last segment of it had slithered out of sight, I turned back to the Ulfric. He still looked pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Baco is the only one who can free their souls. Don't kill him until he's done that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't plan to kill him," the man said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was before you knew. I don't know you well enough to know if when I leave, you'll get all self-righteous and try to end this evil. Don't, please, or you condemn them all to an eternity of that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swallowed like he was having a little trouble keeping down his own breakfast. "I won't kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good." I drew the knife from between my knees right-handed. "Now gather round, boys and girls, because I'm only going to do this trick once."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a general movement as the wolves moved forward. I spared a glance for the boys I'd come in with. They hadn't put their guns up, but they had them pointed at the floor or the ceiling. Edward was watching the wolves, Bernardo was watching the wolves, too, though he looked pale. Olaf was watching me. I really, really, didn't like him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I give honor to the Ulfric and lupa of the Broken Spear Clan. I give the most precious of gifts to the Ulfric, but not being true lukoi, I cannot share this gift with the lupa in her present form. For that, I apologize most sincerely. If I come back this way, I'll shop better." I sat the blade on the bar and leaned over the edge until I could reach a clean glass. One of those thick chunky ones that people are so fond of putting scotch in. It was a strain to get back into a sitting position on the bar, but I managed it with the glass in one hand. I put the glass beside me on the bar and picked the knife up. I laid the blade against my left arm, just above the wrist, and stared at the whole, pale, unscarred flesh. There were scars just above it where a shapeshifted witch had clawed me, and the cross-shaped burn scar that was now a little crooked from the claw marks, but this one patch was still pure. I hoped it didn't scar, but what was one more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took in a deep breath and sliced the blade down my skin. A sigh ran through the watching werewolves, and whimpers from a few of the furrier throats. I ignored them. I'd known it would get a crowd reaction. I kept looking at my flesh and the damage I'd just done to it. The wound didn't bleed immediately. It was just a thin red line, then the first drop spilled from the wound, and the rest of the wound spilled in crimson rivulets down my arm. Deeper than I'd wanted it, but probably about what was needed. I held the wound over the glass. Some of it splashed around the edges, trailing down the sides, but I managed to get it going into the cup. I didn't even need to squeeze the wound much to encourage the flow. Deeper than I wanted it, oh yeah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ulfric had moved closer, close enough that he was standing with his body touching my legs. The wolf that he'd introduced as his lupa moved up to nuzzle at my knee, and he hit her. He backhanded her the way you'd hit a dog you didn't like much. Where was women's lib when you needed it? She went to her belly, crying in doggy fashion, telling him she hadn't meant any harm with her tail tight curled to her rump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one else tried to move forward. If the lupa couldn't share, the rest of them knew better than to try.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ulfric stayed pressed against my legs. "Let me take it out of your arm." He stared at my bleeding arm like I'd stripped for him, something beyond sex, beyond hunger, and yet a little of both. I raised the arm so the blood trickled down it in fast little streams of red, splashing down into the glass. His gaze followed the movement like a dog after a piece of food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The truth was that letting people lick a wound directly tended to distract me. Through the marks I was bound to a werewolf and a vampire. Both of which found blood exciting. The thoughts that filled me when I shared blood with anyone were too primitive, too overwhelming. Especially now with my shields in ruins, I couldn't risk it. "Is the gift worthy?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know it is," and his voice had that peculiar hoarseness that men get when sex is in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then drink, Ulfric, drink. Don't waste it." I held the bloody glass out to him. He took it reverently in both hands. He drank, and I watched his throat convulse as he swallowed my blood. It should have bothered me more, I guess, but it didn't. The numbness was back, a distant almost comfortable feeling. I fished under the bar until I found a stack of clean napkins and pressed them to my arm. The napkins soaked crimson in moments.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ulfric had waded into the pack with my blood in his hands. They surrounded him, touching him, caressing, begging for him to share. He dipped his lingers in the nearly empty cup and held them down for the wolves to lick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward came to stand near me. He said nothing, just helped me put pressure on the wound, got more napkins from under the bar and a clean cloth to tie it tight. Our eyes met, and he just shook his head, the faintest of smiles playing on his face. "Most people pay money for information."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Money doesn't interest most of the people I deal with."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ulfric called back to me through the reaching werewolves. His mouth was bloodstained, his neat beard and mustache thick with my blood. He stared at me with his golden eyes and said, "If you want to talk to Nicky, help yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Ulfric," I said. I hopped down off the bar, and Edward had to catch me or I'd have fallen. Fresh blood loss on top of everything else was not what I had needed. I waved him away, and he didn't argue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward undid Nicky's gag, and took a step back. The werewolves had pulled back, giving us the illusion of privacy, though I knew that every werewolf in the room would hear us, even if we whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hi, Nicky," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had to try twice before he said, "Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was here before ten." I put my hands on the bar and propped my chin on them so he wouldn't have to strain. The movement hurt my back, but somehow I wanted to be on eye level with him. The bulky makeshift bandage seemed to be in the way, but I wanted to keep the arm elevated. Nicky looked even worse up close. One eye was completely closed, blackened and bloodfilled. His nose looked broken, blood bubbling from it when he breathed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He came back into town early."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I figured as much. You've been a very bad boy, Nicky. Pissing off your Ulfric, power play behind his back when you're just human, not even a werewolf, and that thing. That's not voodoo. How the hell did you do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Older magic than voodoo," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind of magic?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you wanted to talk about the monster that's killing innocent citizens?" His voice was strained, pain-filled. Normally, I'm against torture, but I just couldn't find much pity in my heart for Nicky. I'd seen his creation, and I felt the torment of its parts. Nope, I just couldn't spare much sympathy for Nicky. He'd never take enough damage to make up for what he'd done, not at least while he was alive. Hell might be a very nasty place for Nicky Baco. I trusted the divine to have a better sense of justice and irony than I did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, what do you really know about the thing that's out there?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lay there on the bar, wrists and ankles bound together, blood trickling from his mouth, and talked as if he were sitting behind a desk. Except for the little pain sounds he made every once in a while, which spoiled some of the effect.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I felt it years ago, maybe ten. I felt it wake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean wake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you had it in your mind yet?" he asked, and this time I heard the fear in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was sluggish at first, as if it had been asleep or imprisoned, dormant for a very long time. It grew stronger every year."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you tell the police?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ten years ago the police didn't have any psychics or witches working for them. And I already had a criminal record." He coughed and spat blood, and a tooth out on the bar. It made me raise my head up, which forced Nicky to roll his head a little. "What was I going to tell them? That there was this thing out there somewhere, this voice in my head, and it was getting stronger. I didn't know what it could do at first. I didn't know what it was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a god."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was worshipped as a god once. It wants to be worshipped again. It says that gods need tribute to survive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got all this from just a voice in your head?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've had ten years with the thing whispering in my head. What have you learned in less than that many days?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about that. I knew it was killing to feed, not just for sport. Though it enjoyed the slaughter, that I'd felt, too. I knew it both feared me and wanted me. It feared another death worker on the opposite side, but it wanted to drink my powers and would have if Leonora hadn't stopped it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why has it just started to kill people now? Why after a decade?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why does it slaughter some and skin others?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it doing with the body parts that it takes away from the scenes?" Which was a detail that the police would not like me sharing with someone outside the investigation, but I wanted answers more than I wanted to be cautious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know." He coughed again, but didn't spit out anything. Good. If he'd continued to spit blood, I'd have worried about internal injuries. I didn't want to have to persuade the pack to take him to the hospital. I didn't think I'd have much luck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never been there. But understand that what's been killing people is not the god. He's still trapped wherever he started. His servants have done all the murders, not him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying that if you think you've got trouble now, you ain't seen nothing yet. I can feel him in the dark, lying like some kind of bloated thing, filling up with power. When he's full enough, he'll rise, and it'll be hell to pay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you tell me all this before?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You had the police with you the first time. If you turn me over to them I'm dead. You've seen what I do. There wouldn't even need to be a jury."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a point. "When this is over, you have to dismantle it. You have to free their souls, agreed?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I can walk again, agreed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at his legs and saw that there was a lump under his pants leg. It was the bone of the leg, a compound fracture. Jesus. Some days there are so many stones to throw in so many different directions that I don't even know where to start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does this god have a name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He calls himself the Red Woman's Husband."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That can't be an original English phrase."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think he knows what his victims know. By the time he came to me, he spoke in English."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you think he's been here a long time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think he's always been here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, always? Like eternity, or a really, really long time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know how long he's been here." Nicky closed his good eye, as if he were tired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, Nicky, okay." I turned to the Ulfric. "Is he telling the truth?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man nodded. "He didn't lie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great. Thank you for your hospitality and please don't kill him. We may need him in the next few days to help kill this thing, not to mention freeing the souls of your pack mates."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll lay off on the beating."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the closest thing I was going to get to a "yes, we are going to let him go and make sure he isn't hurt anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Great, I'll be in touch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stayed near me as we walked to the door. He didn't offer me his arm, but he stayed close enough that if I stumbled he'd be there. Bernardo already had the door open. Olaf just watched us walk towards them. I stumbled a little up the two steps to the door, and Olaf caught my arm. I looked up into his eyes, and it wasn't pride or honor or respect that I saw. It was ... hunger, a desire so great it was a physical need, a hunger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled away from him and left a smear of blood on his hand. Edward was at my back, helping me towards the door. Olaf raised his hand to his mouth and pressed it to his mouth like a kiss, but he was doing the same thing that the wolves did. He was tasting my blood and liked it. There are all kinds of monsters. Most of them crave blood. Some for food, some for pleasure, but you're dead either way.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_50" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36485769" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36485771" class="calibre7"></a>48 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">EVERYONE WAS QUIET in the car. Olaf consumed by his own thoughts, which I wanted no details about. Bernardo had finally said, "Where to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My house," Edward said. "I don't think Anita's up to anything else today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For once, I didn't argue. I was so tired, I was nauseated. If I could have found a comfortable position, I think I could have slept.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We drove out of Albuquerque and headed towards the distant mountains, bright and cheerful in the morning light. I wished for a pair of sunglasses, because I suddenly was neither cheerful nor bright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you learn anything worth getting out of the hospital early?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I learned that the thing has a name, the Red Woman's Husband. It is hiding some place that it can't move from, which means if we can track it, we can kill it." I added, because just in case, they needed to know. "Nicky says it was worshipped as a god once, and that it still thinks it is one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It can't be a god," Bernardo said, "not a real one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm the wrong person to ask," I said. "I'm a monotheist."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward?" Bernardo made a question of his name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never met anything that was truly immortal. It's just a matter of figuring out how to kill it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I actually had met a few things that seemed immortal. Maybe Edward was right, but I'd seen things that I still couldn't figure out how to kill. Lucky me, the naga had been a crime victim and not a bad guy, and the lamia had been converted to our side. But as far as I knew they were both immortal. Of course, I'd never shoved an incendiary grenade down their pants or tried to set them on fire. Maybe I just hadn't been trying hard enough. For all our sakes, I hoped Edward was right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We pulled onto the long road that led, as far as I could tell, just to Edward's house. It had a steeper drop off than I'd noticed at night, enough of a drop off that being an all terrain vehicle didn't mean anything unless you could fly. A white truck pulled in behind us and started following us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know them?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I managed to turn in the seat far enough to watch the truck. It didn't try and overtake us or anything. There was nothing wrong with the truck except for the fact that it was on the road to Edward's house and he didn't recognize it. Add to that that all four of us were paranoid by profession, and it made for tension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pulled into the turnaround in front of his house. "Everybody into the house until we find out who it is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone was quicker out of the car than I was, but then I'd just managed to get the bleeding on my arm stopped. Lucky for me, Edward had a heavy duty first aid kit in the back seat. I had a nice big bandage taped to my arm, and the wrist sheath shoved in my pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was at the door, unlocking it. Olaf was behind him. Bernardo had actually waited for me, as if he would have liked to offer to help me out of the car, but was afraid to. I was actually feeling rough enough that I didn't mind the babysitting, which told you how truly bad I felt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a small, sharp sound, a bolt being drawn back on a rifle, and everything happened at once. Edward had his gun out and pointed at the sound. Olaf's gun was out but not pointed. Bernardo had his gun pointed, using the door as a brace. I have to admit my gun was in my hand but not pointed. I just wasn't used to the new holster, and having to lift the shirt with a wounded left hand. Damn, I was slow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold of the scarred face was leaning at the far end of Edward's house with a high-powered rifle pointed at Edward. He had most of his body hidden behind the house, and held the rifle like he knew what he was doing. If he'd wanted to drop Edward, he could have done it before Edward got the drop on him. That Harold hadn't shot anyone yet meant they had come for more than just killing. Probably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold said, "Nobody panics, nobody gets hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Harold," Edward said, "when did you guys make bail?" He was still staring down the barrel of his Beretta at Harold. I could almost guarantee he was sighting on the top of the other man's head, his best killing target from what little he had to shoot at. Edward did not shoot to wound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only Russell got arrested," Harold said, rifle settled comfortably against his shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Speak of the devil. Russell came around the corner behind Harold. His nose was packed with white cotton and covered in a hard bandage. I'd broken his nose. Great.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought terrorizing women and children carried more time than this," I said. I kept the gun behind the open door. I didn't want to give anyone an excuse to start shooting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall silent Newt came around the other side of the house with a large shiny revolver in his hands. He held it two-handed and moved in a cross-foot glide that said he knew what he was doing. There was a woman beside him, moving like a smooth oiled shadow. She was six foot if she was an inch, and the tank top she was wearing showed off shoulders and arms that made most of the men look puny. Only her breasts pressed against the shirt showed her braless and very much a girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf pointed his gun at them. Bernardo moved up with his gun, and the woman turned to him. Olaf turned as Newt moved across in front of him like a long distance dance. The woman and Bernardo were more practical. They just stood a little bit apart and stared at each other over their guns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only Russell kept walking and didn't pull a gun. I tried pulling mine and pointing it at him. He did stop, but his smile got wider and the look in his eyes got worse, as if he had plans for me, and they were all about to come true.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You shoot me and they shoot your friends. You're the only one our boss wants," Russell said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But we're not here to kill anyone," Harold said, very quickly, as if he wanted to be clear on that. If I were staring down a gun barrel that Edward was holding, I'd want to be clear, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Russell started walking towards me, even though I had the Browning pointed at his chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Our boss just wants to talk to you, that's all," Harold said. "I promise he just wants to talk to the girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was backing up with the gun held out. Russell was still walking forward very confident. Unless I was willing to shoot him, he wasn't stopping. I did not want to be the one who fired the first shot. People were going to die, and I couldn't control which people that would be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could hear the truck now, crunching over the gravel. I did the only thing I could think of, I turned and ran. I heard a surprised, "Hey," from behind me. But I was over the edge of the slope and down the other side. I suddenly wasn't worried about tearing my stitches up, or how tired I was. My heart was in my throat, and I found that not only could I walk without falling down, I could run. My mind seemed to be working fast and faster. I saw a dry wash at the base of the slope and a clump of trees to one side. I slid into the wash in a rush of small stones. I landed on all fours, heavy, and was scrambling to my feet before I felt the first trickle of blood down my back. I was behind the trees as I heard Russell slither down the slope behind me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I couldn't shoot him, but there were other options. I was aiming for the clump of trees. But say what you liked about Russell, he could run, because I could hear him doing it. He wasn't going to give me enough time to hide. I ran past the trees and knew that I couldn't outrun him. The adrenaline was already beginning to fade, and the heat folded around me like a hand. I just wasn't up to a long chase today. I had to end it, soon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slowed, just a little, one to save energy, and one to let Russell catch up sooner. I took a big breath and prepared. I knew what I wanted to do. But my body had to do it. I couldn't hesitate because my back or my arm or anything else hurt. I risked a glance back, and Russell was almost there, almost on me. I kicked him, full out, straight in the balls. I did it without hesitating, almost without setting up for it, letting his own momentum carry him into me. The shock sent me hopping backward, and I did what I still wasn't smooth at in class, I did a reverse roundhouse kick, to where I thought his face would be, and it was. He'd crumbled, clutching himself, and he went to his knees with the kick. He stayed on all fours shaking his head, but he didn't go down. Dammit!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice yelled from up the slope. "I don't see them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a long piece of bleached wood on the floor of the wash. I picked it up and hit him twice, hard. He finally slumped on the ground and didn't move. I didn't have time to check for a pulse. The wash stretched straight for about a hundred yards before brush filled the end of it. There was a place in the bank that had washed away more than the rest. It was like a shallow cave. I had a split second to decide which way to go. I took the knife sheath out of my back pocket, and threw it knife and all as far as I could towards the brush. I went for the cave, scrambling on feet and hands like a monkey, keeping low. I was in the cooler shade of the depression when I heard the men coming down the slope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see them," the first man said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They went this way," a woman's voice. Could there be two female bad guys, I didn't think so. Did that mean that there was one less gun up with Edward and the others? I let the thought go. I had my own problems.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rocks cascaded down over the overhang like a dry waterfall. At least one of them was coming down directly on top of me. Would the ceiling of the little cave hold the weight? I was already regretting hiding. But the wash stretched open and straight for too far. I'd have never made it to the place where it emptied and there was brush. I just wasn't that fast today. If they thought I'd gone that way and didn't see me, then it would be a good plan. If they turned and spotted me, it was a bad plan. I heard them coming, but the man's voice was right above me. It made me jump. He had to be standing just to the right of the roof. "Jesus, there's Russell." He jumped into the wash and started running towards the fallen man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman was more cautious, sliding down into the wash, searching up and down the wash. She was so close, I could have reached out and touched the leg of her jeans. My heart was thundering in my throat, but I'd stopped breathing. I was holding my breath, willing her to go to the men, to walk away, and not look back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's alive," the man said. Then he was up and moving towards the sheath I'd thrown. "She went this way." He went for the brush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman walked towards him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was already at the brush, pushing into it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maury, dammit, don't go in there." She had to jog to have any chance of catching him. She didn't look back to see me crouched in the hole. When her broad back vanished into the brush, and I heard the man curse, I crawled out of the hole and started up the slope on all fours. If the woman and Maury came out now, I would be caught like a black speck on a white sheet of paper. But they didn't come, and I made the top of the slope down from where I'd first entered, crawling on my belly to lie under the sage bushes that edged Edward's front yard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something slithered off to my right, and it wasn't human. A snake. A snake had slithered away deeper into the bushes. Shit. Thank you, dear God, that it left. One more problem and I was out of solutions. Of course, now every noise seemed to be reptilian, and crawling on my belly through the thick bushes, the smell of sage thick in the hot air was a little slice of nightmare. I kept waiting to hear that dry rattle that would tell me I'd used up all my luck. Every twig that brushed my leg seemed to have scales. The only thing that kept me from screaming was the knowledge that someone would probably shoot me before they knew it was me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By the time I crawled to the very edge of the bushes one painful inch at a time, I was sweating and it was only partially from heat. The sweat stung on my back, and I knew that some of the thicker trickles were blood and not sweat. I could see the yard through the last screen of sage. Things had not improved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman and the new man, Maury, had left the yard, but three others had taken their places. They had the men on their knees. Olaf had his hands laced on his bald head. Bernardo had his one good hand on his head, and his cast raised as high as he could. Edward was the closest to me. Newt was so close I could have put the knife into his foot. Harold was talking into a cell phone. He was waving one hand and had the rifle slung over one arm. He put the phone away from his mouth, and said, "He says search the house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What for?" one of the new men said, he had dark hair and a revolver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For an artifact, something the girl used against the monster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What kind of artifact?" the dark man asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just do it," Harold said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dark hair grumbled, but he motioned and the two men left to go into the open door of the house. Edward must have unlocked it for them. What the hell had been happening while I was crawling through the bushes?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three men went into the house. Harold was still talking on the phone. That left just Newt with his .45, and he wasn't even pointing it at anyone's head. It would never get better than this. Any second now the others would come back up the wash or out of the house. I'd have liked to have at least gotten to my knees and plunged the knife into a vital area, but the bushes were too thick. I'd never push to my knees without making all kinds of noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I fired a gun, I'd alert all the others. Shit. I had two knives. I had one idea. I slipped the blade out of my right arm sheath, making sure my left hand had a good grip. Newt's foot was still so temptingly close. I took the invitation, I stabbed the right-hand knife into the foot opposite from his gun. I felt the blade sink into the ground underneath his shoe, as he screamed. I was on my knees behind him, as he tried to twist and bring the gun on me, but he had the gun pointed for someone standing on his left side, and I wasn't there. I plunged the other knife up into his pants, into the front of his pants, my hand between his legs, and I missed. I didn't hit flesh. Fuck. I twitched the blade to the side and felt him, but he wasn't cut. But he was very, very still.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hissed, "Don't move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't move. He stayed like some kind of awkward statue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold started walking towards us. "What's wrong, Newt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Newt swallowed, and said, "N -- nothing. Thought I saw a snake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I whispered, "Good boy, Newt. If you want to keep the family jewels intact, very quietly hand me your gun." He let the .45 fall into my hand. I was close enough to whisper to Edward, "What do you want me to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call Harold over."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You heard him, Newt," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man never argued. "Hey, Harold, can you come over here a second?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold sighed, snapping the cell phone shut. "What is it now, Newt?" He was almost even with Edward when he noticed that Newt's gun was gone. I was still hidden behind the larger man's body; even the blade was hidden in the cloth of his pants. "What the hell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo pulled one of the gold chopsticks out of his hair, and it was a blade that ended in Harold's arm. Edward hit him in the gut, doubled him over, and disarmed him. He stood over him with the rifle. Olaf and Bernardo were on their feet. I don't know what the plan would have been next because we heard the sirens. Police sirens.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you call the cops, Harold?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be an ass," Harold said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't call them. I've still got a .45 pointed at you, Newt. Don't get cute." But I withdrew the blade very carefully and stood up. I kept his gun pointed at his back, but I was beginning to doubt I'd have to shoot anybody. The sirens were almost here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The three guys came out of the house with their guns in plain sight. They looked to Harold, saw him on the ground, and Edward had the rifle to his shoulder and was sighting down the barrel at them. Their eyes flicked to the cops coming at a fast pace, and back to Edward. They threw their guns down and laced their fingers on their heads without being told. I doubted it was the first time they'd had to do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an unmarked car with a marked car following it. They skidded to a stop on opposite sides of the black truck and four cops spilled out. Lieutenant Marks, Detective Ramirez, and two uniforms I didn't know. They had guns pointed but looked a little unsure who the bad guys were. Couldn't blame them. We had all the guns.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Detective Ramirez," I said. "Thank God."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" Marks said, before Ramirez could answer me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward told them that Harold and his men had jumped us and were trying to question us about the mutilation murders. Marks found that fascinating. Edward had known he would. Yes, Ted Forrester would press assault charges. Any good citizen would. There were enough handcuffs to go around, barely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are two more out there somewhere," Edward said in his best helpful voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's one unconscious in the wash that way," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone looked at me. I didn't have to pretend to be uncomfortable. "He was chasing me. I thought they were going to kill the others." I shrugged and winced. "He's alive." It sounded like an excuse even to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They called for more men to search the area. They called for an ambulance for Harold, Newt, and Russell, when they found him. I'd sat down on the ground, waiting for everyone to do their jobs. I was using both hands to prop myself up. Now that the emergency seemed to be over, I wasn't feeling so good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Marks was yelling at me. "You left the hospital against doctor's orders! I don't give a damn, but I want a statement. I want to know exactly what happened at that hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him, and he seemed to be taller than he was, further away somehow. "Are you saying that all the lights and sirens were because you were mad at me for not giving a statement before I left the hospital?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A flush spread up his face, and I knew that that was exactly it. One of the uniforms called, "Lieutenant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want that statement today." He turned and walked away. I hoped he stayed there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez knelt beside me. He was wearing his usual, shirtsleeves rolled back, a striped tie at half-mast, around an open collar. "You all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I went to the hospital today, and you were already gone. That night, the elevator had been turned off because of the fire alarms. I had to double back and get the stairs, and come up behind you. That's why I was late. That's why I wasn't there for you." For it to be almost the first thing out of his mouth, it must have been bugging him. I liked that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I managed something close to a smile. "Thanks for telling me." I was so hot. The yard seemed to be swimming in heat, as if I were looking at the world through rippling glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched my back, I think to help me up. He drew his hand away from my shirt. His hand was bloody. He went on all fours, using one hand to raise my shirt. It was so blood-soaked that he had to peel it away from my skin. "Jesus, and Joseph, what the hell have you done to yourself?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't even hurt anymore." I heard myself saying it from a long way away, then I was sliding over into his arms, his lap. I heard someone call my name, and I finally passed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I woke up in the hospital. Doctor Cunningham was bending over me. I thought, "We have to stop meeting like this," but didn't even try to say it out loud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've lost blood and had your stitches redone. Do you think you can stay in here long enough for me to actually release you this time?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think I smiled. "Yes, Doctor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just in case you got any funny ideas about leaving, I've doped you up with enough pain killers to make you feel really good. So sleep, and I'll see you in the morning."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes fluttered shut once, then opened. Edward was there. He bent over me and whispered, "Crawling through bushes on your belly, threatening to cut off a man's balls. Such a hard ass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My voice came faintly even to me. "Had to save your ass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bent over me and kissed on my forehead, or maybe I dreamed that part.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_51" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36486264" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36486266" class="calibre7"></a>49 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">SOME TIME DURING the second day in the hospital they lowered the meds, and I started having the dreams. I was wandering in a maze made up of high green hedges. I was wearing a long, heavy dress, made of white silk. There were heavy things under it, weighting it down. I could feel the tightness of a corset under the dress, and I knew it wasn't my dream. I would never dream of clothing that I had never worn. I stopped running through the green maze looked up into a flawless blue sky, and shouted, "Jean-Claude!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice came, rich, seductive. He could do things with his voice that most men couldn't do with their hands. "Where are you, ma petite? Where you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You promised to stay out of my dreams."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We felt you dying. We felt the marks open. We worried." I knew who "we" was. "Richard isn't invading my dreams, just you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have come to warn you. If you had picked up a phone to call us, this would not be necessary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned and there was a mirror in the middle of the grass and the hedges. It was a full-length mirror with a gilt edged frame. Very antique, very Louis XIV. My reflection was startling. It wasn't just the clothes. My hair was in some kind of complicated mound, with thick curls hanging down here and there. There was also more of it, and I knew at least some of it was a wig or at least hairpieces. There was even one of those beauty marks on my cheek. I expected to look ridiculous, but I didn't. I looked delicate, like a china doll, but it wasn't ridiculous. My reflection wavered, then grew taller, and it was Jean-Claude in the mirror, and my reflection had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was tall, slender, dressed head to foot in white satin, in a suit that matched my dress. Gold brocade glittered down his sleeves, the seams of the pants. White boots rode over his knees tied with huge white and gold ribbons. It was a foppish outfit, sissy to use a modern word, but he didn't look foppish. He looked elegant and at ease like a man who'd pulled off his tie and slipped into something more comfortable. His hair fell in long black banana curls. Only the delicate masculinity of his face and his midnight blue eyes looked normal, familiar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, and the weight of the hair made it awkward. "I am so out of here," and I started to reach out to shred the dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait, please, ma petite. Truly, I have a warning for you." He looked up as if seeing the mirror as a sort of prison. "This is to let you know that I will not touch you. I come only to talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then talk."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was it the Master of Albuquerque who harmed you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed an odd question. "No, Itzpapalotl didn't hurt me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He winced at her name. "Do not use her name aloud within this dream."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, but she didn't hurt me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you have seen her?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked puzzled, and he lifted a white hat and slapped it against his leg like it was a habitual gesture, though I'd never seen him do it before. But then I'd only seen him in clothes like this once before, and we'd been fighting for our lives, so there really hadn't been time to notice the small stuff.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Albuquerque is taboo. The high council has declared the city off limits to all vampires and their minions."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because the Master of the City has slain every vampire or minion that has entered her city in the last fifty years."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at him. "You're joking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, ma petite, I do not joke." He looked worried, no, scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She didn't try anything hostile, Jean-Claude, honest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then there was a reason for it. Were the police with you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, slapping the hat against his leg again. "Then she wants something from you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What could she want from me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not know." He slapped the hat against his leg again and stared out at me through the glass wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Has she really killed any vampire that just happened to be passing through?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oui."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why hasn't the council sent someone to kick her ass?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down, then up, and the fear was in his eyes again. "The Council fears her, I believe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Having met three of the council members personally, that raised my eyebrows as far as they would go. "Why? I mean I know she's powerful, but she's not that powerful."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not know, ma petite, but I do know they decreed her territory taboo, rather than fight her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was just plain scary. "It would have been nice to know that before I got here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you value your privacy, ma petite. I have not contacted you in all these long months. I have respected your decision, but it is not merely our romance, or lack of it, that is important between us. You are my human servant whether you will or no. It means that you cannot simply enter another vampire's territory without some diplomacy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm here on police business. I thought I could enter anyone's territory as long as it was police business. I'm here as Anita Blake, preternatural expert, not as your human servant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Normally, that is true, but the Master whose lands you are in does not obey council decrees. She is a law unto herself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does that mean for me here and now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps she fears human law. Perhaps she will not harm you for fear of the humans destroying her. Your authorities can be very effective at times. Or she simply wants something from you. You've met her. What do you think?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It came to my lips before I thought about it. "Power, she's attracted to power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are a necromancer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head, and again the hairpieces made it awkward. I closed my eyes in the dream, and when I opened them, my hair just hung around my shoulders like normal. "The hair was heavy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It could be," he said, "I am happy that you left the dress. I cannot tell you how long I have wished to see you in something like it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't push it, Jean-Claude."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My apologies," and he did a sweeping bow, using the hat in the gesture, so that it swept across his chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it's more than the necromancy. She figured out that I was part of a triumvirate the first moment she met me. I felt her sift through the three of us, like unwinding a string. She knew. I think that's what she wants. She wants to figure out how it works."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Could she repeat it?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's got a human servant and jaguars are her animal to call. Theoretically, I guess she could, though can you make it a three-way when you've already got marks on a human, and no animal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the marks are recent, perhaps."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, not recent. They've been a couple a long time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then no, her human's marks will be too entrenched to stretch for a third."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So she may be interested in me for a power she can't have? If she finds out that I can't be of help to her?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It would perhaps be best if she did not learn that, ma petite."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think she'd kill me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She has killed all that crossed her path for half a century. I do not see why she should change her ways now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was standing very close to the mirror now. Close enough that I could see the gold buttons on his jacket, and the rise and fall of his chest as he drew breath. This was the closest I'd been to him in months. It was just a dream, but we both knew it wasn't just a dream. He'd put the mirror barrier between us because once we'd used our dreams to enter each other's fantasies. He'd come like a demon lover in my dreams, in my sleep. We'd done the real thing, too, but the dreams had been sweet, sometimes a prelude to the real thing, sometimes an end in themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glass grew thinner, as if the glass were wearing away. It was like a thin pane of spun sugar. He touched fingertips to it, and the glass moved like clear plastic, giving at his touch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My fingertips touched his, and the thin barrier vanished. Our fingers touched, and it was startling, electric. His fingers slid over mine, entwining, our palms touching, and even that one chaste touch sent my breath racing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stepped back but didn't let go of his hand, so the movement drew him out of the mirror. He stepped out of the golden frame and was suddenly standing in front of me, our hands still raised in front of us. I could feel his heart beating through his palm, feel the rise and pulse of his body through my hand as if all of him were contained in that one pale hand where it lay pressed against mine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned down towards me, as if to kiss me, and I started to pull away, afraid, but the dream shattered, and I was suddenly awake, staring up at the hospital ceiling. A nurse was in the room, checking my vitals. She'd woken me. I wasn't sure whether I was glad or sad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The marks had been open for less than a week, and Jean-Claude was already pushing me. Okay, okay, I needed the warning, but ... Oh, hell. My teacher, Marianne, had told me that I couldn't just ignore the boys, that that would be dangerous. I thought she meant ignoring the power that bound us, but maybe she meant more than that. I was Jean-Claude's human servant, and that made things complicated when I traveled. Each vampire's territory was like a foreign country. Sometimes you had diplomatic treaties between them. Sometimes you didn't. Occasionally, you just had a couple of master vamps that were enemies pure and simple, so if you belonged to one, you stayed the hell out of the other one's lands. By refusing to contact Jean-Claude, I could screw up, get myself killed or held hostage. But I'd thought I was safe as long as I was on police business or animating zombies. That was work. It had nothing to do with Jean-Claude and vampire politics. But I could always be wrong, like now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Why, you may ask, did I believe Jean-Claude and his warning? Because it gained him nothing to lie about it. I'd also felt his fear. One of the things about the marks, you could usually tell what the other person was feeling. Sometimes that bugged me. Sometimes it was helpful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nurse shoved a thermometer with a little plastic sheath on it under my tongue. She took my pulse while we waited for the thermometer to beep. What really bugged me about the dream was how attracted to him I was. When I had the marks closed off, I'd have never touched him in the dream. Of course, I hadn't let him enter my dreams when I had the marks blocked off. With the barriers up, I'd policed my dreams, kept him and Richard out. I could still keep them out, but it took more work to do it. I was out of practice. I was going to have to get back into practice, fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thermometer beeped. The nurse read the little monitor on her belt, gave me an empty smile that could have meant anything, and made a note. "I hear you're getting out of here today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at her. "I am. Great."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doctor Cunningham will be in to see you before you leave." She smiled again. "He seems to want to oversee your release personally."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm one of his favorite patients," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nurse's smile slipped just a touch. I think she knew exactly what Doctor Cunningham thought of me. "He should be in to see you soon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I am definitely getting out of here today?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what I hear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I call a friend to come pick me up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can call them for you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I'm getting out today, can't I have a phone?" The good doctor had made sure there was no phone in my room because he didn't want me trying to do work, any work, not even business phone calls. When I'd promised not to use the phone if he'd just give me one, he'd just looked at me, made some kind of note in his file, and left. I don't think he trusted me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the doctor says you can have a phone, I'll bring you one, but just in case, give me the number and I'll contact your friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave her Edward's number. She wrote it down, smiled, and left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a knock on the door. I expected Doctor Cunningham, but it was Detective Ramirez. His shirt today was a pale tan. The half-mast tie was deep brown with a small white and yellow design on it. But he'd also kept a brown suit jacket that matched his pants. It was the first time I'd seen him with an entire suit on at once. I wondered if the sleeves were rolled up underneath the jacket sleeves. He had a bouquet of shiny Mylar balloons with cartoon characters on them. The balloons said things like "get well soon," and "oh, bother." That was the Winnie the Pooh balloon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to smile. "You already sent flowers." There was a small, but nice arrangement running long to daisies and miniature carnations on the bedside table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wanted to bring something in person. I'm sorry I wasn't here sooner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My smile wilted around the edges. "This level of apology is usually reserved for boyfriends or lovers, detective. Why are you feeling so guilty?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I keep having to remind you to call me Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I keep forgetting."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you don't. You keep trying to distance yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just looked at him. It was probably true. "Maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I was your lover, I'd have followed you to the hospital and been by your side every minute," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even with a murder investigation going on?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had the grace to shrug and look sheepish. "I'd have tried to be here every minute."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's been happening while I've been in here? My doctor has made sure I haven't found out anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez put the balloons beside the flowers. The balloons had one of those little weights on them to keep them from drifting away. "The last time I tried to see you, your doctor made me promise not to talk about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know you were here before."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were pretty out of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was I awake?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Great. I wondered how many other people had paraded through here while I was passed out cold. "I'm getting out today, so I think it's safe to talk about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, and the expression was enough. He didn't believe me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doesn't anyone trust me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're like most of the cops I know. You never really get off work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised my hand in the Boy Scout's salute. "Honest, the nurse told me I'm being released today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "I saw your back, remember. Even if you're being let out, you won't be going back on the case, not in person anyway."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? I'm going to look at pictures and listen to the clues that other people find?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do I look like Nero Wolfe? I am not a staying at home, out of the firing line, kind of girl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed, and it was still a good laugh. A nice normal laugh. It had none of Jean-Claude's touchable sex appeal, but in some ways I liked it better for its very normalcy. But ... but as nice and warm as Ramirez was, I had the memory of Jean-Claude's dream in my head. I could feel the touch of his hand on mine, a touch that lingered on my skin the way an expensive perfume will linger in a room long after the woman who wears it is gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe it was love, but whatever it was, it was hard to find a man who could compete with it, no matter how much I wanted to find one. It was as if when he was with me, all other men just faded into the background, except Richard. Was that what it meant to be in love? Was it? I wish I knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you thinking about?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever that nothing is, it makes you look very serious, almost sad." He'd moved very close to the bed, fingers touching the edge of the sheet. His face was gentle, questioning, very open. I realized in a way that Ramirez had my ticket. He knew what punched my buttons, partly just coincidence, partly he read me well. He read what I liked and what I hated in a man better than Jean-Claude had for years. I liked honesty, openness, and a sort of little boy charm. There were other things that led to lust, but for my heart that was the way. Jean-Claude was almost never open about anything. He always had a dozen different motives for everything he did. Honesty was not his best thing, and his little boy charm ... nope. Jean-Claude had gotten there first, and for better or worse that was the way things were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe a little honesty would work here, too. "I'm wondering how different my life would be if I'd met you or someone like you first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"First, that implies that you've already met someone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I told you I had two guys back home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You also said you couldn't decide between them. My grandmother always said that the only reason a woman hesitates between two men is that she hasn't met the right one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your grandmother didn't say that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Yes, she did. She was being courted by two men, sort of halfway engaged to both, then she met my grandfather and she knew why she'd been hesitating. She didn't love either of the two men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "Don't tell me I've got caught up in some family folklore?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never said you were taken. Tell me I'm wasting my time and I'll stop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him, really looked at him, let my eye follow the smiling line of his face, the shining humor in his eyes. "You're wasting your time. I am sorry, but I think you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Stop it, Hernando. I'm taken, okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not taken until you make a final choice, but that's okay. I'm not the one. If I were, you'd know it. When you meet him, you won't have any doubts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me you believe in true love, soul mate kind of stuff."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged, fingers running up and down the edge of the sheet. "What can I say? I was raised on stories about love at first sight. My grandmother, both my parents, even my great-grandfather said the same thing. They met that special person, and no one else existed after that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're descended from a family of romantics," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded happily. "My great-grandfather, Poppy, talked about my great-grandmother like they were still school kids right up until he died."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It sounds nice, really, but I don't believe in true love, Hernando. I don't believe that there's only one special person for your whole life's happiness."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't want to believe it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "This is about to go from cute to irritating, Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At least you're using my first name."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe because I don't see you as a threat anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A threat? Just because I like you? Just because I asked you out?" He frowned when he said it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn to shrug. "Whatever I mean, Hernando, just cut the juice. It ain't going nowhere. Whatever I decide, it's between the two guys I have waiting for me back home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It sounds like you weren't sure of that until just now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about that for a heartbeat, or two. "You know, I think you're right. I think I've been looking around for someone else, anyone else. But it's no good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't sound happy about that. Love should make you happy, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled and knew it was wistful. "If you think love makes you happy, Hernando, you've either never been in love, or never been in love long enough to have to start compromising."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not old enough to be this cynical."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not cynicism. It's reality."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face was soft and sad. "You've lost your sense of romance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never had a sense of romance. Trust me, the guys at home will back me on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I'm even sorrier."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't take this wrong, but hearing you go on about true love and romance, makes me sorry for you. You are setting yourself up for the big fall, Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not if it works out," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled and shook my head. "Isn't it against the rules for homicide detectives to be naive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think it's naive?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know it is, but it's sweet. I wish you luck finding your Ms. Right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened and it was Doctor Cunningham. Ramirez asked, "Does she really get out today, Doctor?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, she does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why doesn't anyone believe me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both looked at me. Funny how quickly people caught onto certain aspects of my personality. "I want to do one more check on your back, then you're free to go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You got a ride out of here?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I asked the nurse to call Ted, but I don't know if she did, or if he's home."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll wait around to give you a ride." Before I could say anything, he added, "What are friends for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, and this means you can fill me in on the case on the way out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never give up, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not about a case," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez walked out shaking his head, giving the doctor and me some privacy. Dr. Cunningham poked and prodded, and finally just ran his hands over my back. It was nearly healed. "It's just impressive. I've treated lycanthropes before, Ms. Blake, and you're healing almost that fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I flexed my left hand, stretching the skin where the bite mark still showed where the flayed one had bitten me. The bite was pale pink, settling into a nice ordinary scar, only weeks ahead of schedule. I wondered if the scar would eventually disappear, or if it would be another permanent one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've done blood work up on you. I even snuck some of your blood down to the genetics department and had them look for something not human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Genetic work takes weeks or months," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a friend in the department."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Some friend," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled and it was warmer than it should have been. "She is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So I'm free to go?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are." His face got all serious again. "But I'd still like to know what the hell you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You wouldn't believe human?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forty-eight hours after your second injury, we had to remove the stitches from your back because the skin was starting to grow over them. No, I won't believe human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's too long a story, Doc. If it was something I could teach you to use on other people, I'd tell, but it's not that kind of thing. You might call the healing a bonus for some other less pleasant shit that I put up with."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unless the other shit is really awful, the healing makes up for it. You'd never have survived the original injuries if you'd been human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No maybe," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad to be alive. I'm glad to be nearly healed. I'm glad it didn't take months to recover. What more do you want me to say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He draped his stethoscope over his shoulders, holding onto the ends, frowning at me. "Nothing. I'll tell Detective Ramirez that he can tell you about the case now and that you are getting out today." He glanced at the flowers and the balloons. "You've been here, what, five days?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched a balloon, making them bounce on their strings. "You work fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think it's me that works fast."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave the balloons one more whack so they bobbed and weaved like some underwater creature. "Whatever, enjoy your stay in Albuquerque. Try to stay healthy." With that he left, and Ramirez came back in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doctor says I can talk the case with you again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yep."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not going to like it." He looked all serious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's happened?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's been another murder, and not only are you not invited to the scene, neither am I."</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_52" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36487052" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36487054" class="calibre7"></a>50 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"WHAT ARE YOU talking about?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks is in charge of the case. He has the right to use his resources as he sees fit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop talking political rhetoric and tell me what the little shithead has done now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "Okay. The men assigned to the case are one of those resources. He decided that I was best used at the police property room going over the items that we've confiscated from the victim's homes, and matching them to the pictures and video we have of some of the houses before the murders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pictures and videos for what?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Insurance purposes. A lot of the houses hit had enough rare and antique pieces that they insured them, and that meant they needed proof that they had the pieces to begin with."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What pieces did you find in the last scene I was at, the one on the Ranch?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile didn't change, but the eyes did. They went from pleasant to shrewd. "It's not just that you're cute. I like the way you think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just tell me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There were a lot of similar pieces since most of the people had collected things from this area, or the southwest in general, but nothing out of the ordinary. Except for this." He reached behind his back underneath the suit jacket and pulled a manila envelope out that must have been inside his belt underneath the jacket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knew you had to be wearing the suit jacket for some reason."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed. He unfolded the envelope and spilled out pictures into my lap. Half of them were semiprofessional shots of a small carved piece of turquoise. A glance and I wanted to say Mayan, Aztec, something like that. I still couldn't tell the difference at a glance. The second set were a few better shots of the object in the study of the man that had been killed. The one that had used salt to interrupt the critter. Then a series of Polaroids, taken from every angle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You took the Polaroids?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "This afternoon after he decided my best use was not at the murder site."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted one of the first series of pictures. "These are sitting on a wooden surface, much better light, natural, I think. Insurance pictures?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who did it belong to?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The first house you saw."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Bromwells'," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lifted another picture. "This one was from the Carsons', and that's it. Either no one else owned one, or they didn't think to get it insured."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did the people who didn't try to get it insured, try to insure their other pieces?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," I said. "I don't know much about this stuff, but I know that it's valuable. Why wouldn't they try to insure it, if they owned one?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What if they thought it was hot?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Illegal? Why would they think that?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe because of the two houses we can prove had it, their history of the piece -- where they got it and when -- isn't real."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Something like this doesn't just show up. It has to have a history if you want it insured. They gave their papers, what they'd been given, to the insurance company, and just a little investigation showed that the people that were supposed to have unearthed the piece, sold the piece, had never heard of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They refused to insure it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes." There was something in his face, a suppressed excitement like a kid with a secret.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're holding something back. What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know what Riker is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a pot hunter, an illegal dealer in artifacts."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why would he be so interested in you and this case?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I have no idea." I looked at the pictures in my lap. "You're saying that he sold these to the victims?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not him personally, but Thad Bromwell, the teenage son, he was with his mother when she purchased it. It was a present for Mr. Bromwell's birthday. They bought it from a shop that is a known associate of Riker. It takes pieces and makes them look legit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you talked to the shop owners?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Unless you've got a ouija board, we're not going to be talking to him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's the newest victim," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded, smiling. "You got it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Okay, Riker is unusually interested in the case. He wanted to see me specifically about it. At least two of the victims are people who bought one of his pieces. The shop owner that sold it is dead now, too." I looked up at him. "Is it enough for a warrant?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We already searched his house. Riker's men are suspected in the killing of two local cops. It wasn't hard to find a judge that would give us a warrant on the crap they pulled out at Ted's house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell did the warrant give you permission to search for? They didn't mention stolen artifacts at Ted's house. They just pointed guns at us and said Riker wanted to talk about the case."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The warrant was to search for weapons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "So even if you found stolen artifacts, you wouldn't be able to use them in court."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was just an excuse to search the house, Anita. You know how that goes,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you find anything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A few guns, two without license, but the warrant didn't allow us to knock down walls or destroy things. We couldn't pull up carpet or pull down shelves, Riker has a secret cache of artifacts, but we didn't find it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was Ted with you on the search?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, he was." He was frowning now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ted wanted to take a sledge hammer to some of the walls. He seemed pretty certain there was a hidden room in the lower areas, but we couldn't find a way to open it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the warrant didn't allow you to tear up things," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did Riker think of all the fun?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He had his lawyer screaming about harassment. Ted got up in his face, not yelling, but in his face, speaking real quiet. The lawyer said he threatened Riker, but Riker wouldn't back it up. He wouldn't say what Ted had said to him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think he threatened him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't like Edward to threaten anyone, especially in front of the police. The case really was getting to him. "So what the hell are these little figures?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one knows. According to experts, they are Aztec, but very late period like after the conquest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, you mean these were carved after the Spanish came and kicked the Aztecs' butts?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not after, but right about the same time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who was your expert?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He mentioned a name I wasn't familiar with at the university. "Does it matter who it was?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were using Professor Dallas."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks thinks she's spending too much time with the unholy demons."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he means Obsidian Butterfly, then I agree. Marks and I agreeing on anything. Jeez, that's almost scary."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you think she's a contaminated source, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think Dallas thinks the sun shines out of Itzpapalotl's butt, so yeah. Have you shown any of these pictures to Dallas?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "The ones from the Bromwells'."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did she say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That it was a fake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised eyebrows at him. "What's the other expert think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That he understands why someone would think it was a fake just from pictures. The figure has rubies for eyes, and the Aztecs didn't have access to rubies. So just from pictures, you might assume it was a fake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hear a 'but' coming," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Doctor Martinez got to hold it in his hand, look at it up close, and he thinks it's authentic, something made after the Spaniards arrived."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't think anything was made after the Spaniards arrived. Didn't they destroy everything?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If these are authentic, then apparently not. Doctor Martinez says that he'll need more tests to he a hundred percent sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cautious man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most academics are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. Some were. Some weren't. "So let's say for argument's sake that Riker found these things, and he sold them to some people who knew they were hot, or suspected they were, and sold some to shops that passed them off as legit. Now something is killing off the customers and following the trail back to Riker. Is that what he's afraid of?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounds reasonable," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started looking through the Polaroids. They were back and front shots, not great pics, but from every angle. It looked like the figure was wearing armor, sort of. Its hands held long thick strings of things. "What did Martinez say this figure's holding?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He wasn't sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were people curled around its feet, but they were thin and sticklike, not fat and square like the figure itself. The eyes were rubies, the mouth open and full of teeth. There was a long tongue coming out of the mouth, and what looked like blood pouring from the mouth. "Nasty looking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." He picked up one of the pictures from the sheet, staring at it as he spoke. "Do you think this thing is out there killing people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him. "An Aztec god, as in the real deal, out there slaughtering people?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, still staring at the picture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you mean a real god with a capital G, then I'm a monotheist, so no. If you mean some kind of preternatural nasty associated with this particular god, then why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up then. "Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "You were expecting a definitive yes or no? I don't know much about Aztec pantheon stuff, except that most of the deities are big and bad and required sacrifice, usually human. They don't have much in their pantheon that isn't a major god. Something big and bad enough that you don't fight it, you just try and stop it with magic or sacrifice, or you die. And whatever this thing is that's been doing the killings, it's not that bad."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I remembered what Nicky Baco had said, that the voice in his head was still trapped, that what had been doing the killings was just a minion, not the real deal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're all serious again. What did you just think of?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at him and tried to decide how much of a cop he was, and how much of a player he would be. I could never have told Dolph. He'd have used the info for strict cop stuff. "I have information from an informant that I don't want to name right now. But I think you need to know what was said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His own face was solemn now. "Did you obtain this information legally?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I did nothing illegal to obtain this information."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly a no," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you want it or not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a deep breath and blew it out slow. "Yeah, I want it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him what Nicky had said about the voice and the thing being trapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finished with, "I don't believe in a real god, but I do believe there are things out there so terrible that once upon a time they were worshipped as gods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you saying that we haven't seen the worst of it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If what is doing the killings is just a minion, and the master isn't up and around yet, then yeah, I'm saying the worst is yet to come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'd really like to talk to this informant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You would be dandy, but Marks would have this informant up on charges so fast, we'd never find out what this person knew. Once you slap an automatic death sentence on someone, they tend not to cooperate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other. "There's only one person you've talked to that has a rep to get himself an automatic death sentence. That's Nicky Baco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't even blink. It wasn't like I hadn't known he'd figure it out. I was ready for it, and I'd gotten much better at lying. "You have no idea who I've talked to since I arrived. I've talked to at least three people that could be put up on charges with a death sentence attached."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three?" He made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "At least."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Either you are a better liar than I thought you were, or you're telling the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just looked up at him, giving him blank but earnest face. Even my eyes were quiet and able to meet his gaze, no flinching. There had been a time, not long ago, when I couldn't have pulled it off. But that was then, and I wasn't the same person anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, if there is some sort of Aztec god out there, what do we do about it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only one answer. "Itzpapalotl should know what this is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We questioned her about the killings."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So did I."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me long and hard. "You went without police backup, and you didn't share what you found."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't find anything about the murders. She told me about what she told you, nothing. But when I talked to her, she stressed that no deity she knew of would flay people and keep them alive. Later I figured out that they were dead. She stressed that only through death could the sacrifice be a suitable messenger to the gods. She repeated almost word for word that she didn't know a being or god that would flay people and keep them alive. Maybe we should go back and ask her if she knows of any deity or creature that would flay people and not keep them alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, you're inviting the police now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm inviting you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started picking up the pictures and shoving them back in the envelope. "I took the pictures out of the property room, but I signed for them. I brought Doctor Martinez in to see the statue, but it was official. I haven't done anything wrong, yet."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks is going to be so pissed that you found out important stuff when he meant to just get you out of the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez smiled, but it wasn't exactly a pleased smile. "I've got better than that. Marks will take credit for the brilliant idea of putting one of his senior detectives on special detail to investigate the relics."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're kidding me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He did send me to the property room to look at what we took from the victims' houses."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he did it to humiliate you and get you out of the way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But that's not what he said out loud. Out loud it's going to make him seem inspired."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's done shit like this before, I take it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "He's a very good politician, and when he's not on his right-wing high horse, he's a good detective."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fine. You mentioned that I wasn't allowed on the murder scene either. What gives there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we all thought you were still out of the game, but he got Ted and company excluded by getting the powers that be to agree that Ted hadn't been a big help on the case, and that without you, his newest expert, Ted wasn't necessary on the murder scene."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I bet Ted's going to love that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "He was very ... unprofessional, or unlike himself when we searched Riker's place. I've never seen Ted so ... " Ramirez shook his head. "I don't know, he just seemed different, close to the edge."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had let a little of his real self peek out where the police could see. He had to be under immense pressure to be screwing up like that, or he thought that it was necessary. Either way, things were bad when Ted started losing focus and Edward's real self came through, accident or on purpose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened, no knock. It was Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Speak of the devil," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His Edward face had been on, and I watched it move like liquid into Ted, smiling, but still weary around the eyes. "Detective Ramirez, I didn't know you were here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They shook hands. "I was just filling Anita in on some of the things she's missed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You tell her about the search at Riker's?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward hefted a gym bag. "Clothes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't have time to drive from your house to here since the nurse called."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I packed the bag the night you went in the hospital. I've been riding around with it in my Hummer ever since."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other, and there was a weight of things unsaid and unsayable in front of company. Maybe it showed, or maybe Ramirez just felt it. "I'll leave you two alone. You probably have things to talk about. Mystery informants and things like that." He went for the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I called after him. "Don't go far, Hernando. When I'm dressed, we'll go see Obsidian Butterfly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only if it's official, Anita. I go in, and we call for uniform backup."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was our turn for solid eye contact and the weight of wills. I blinked first. "Fine, we go in with the cops like good little boys and girls."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He flashed that warm smile that he could draw from his bag anytime he wanted, or maybe it was real and my cynical nature was showing. "Good, I'll wait outside." He hesitated, then walked back and handed the envelope Edward. He looked at me one more time then walked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward opened the envelope and looked inside. "What is this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The link, I think." I explained what Ramirez and I had been discussing, about Riker and why he might be interested in the case on a very personal level.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That would mean that Obsidian Butterfly lied to us," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, she never lied. She said she knew of no deity or creature that would flay people and keep them alive. They aren't alive. They're dead. Technically, it wasn't a lie."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward smiled. "That is cutting it very thin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a nine hundred, nearly a thousand year old vampire. They tend to cut the truth pretty thin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hope you like what I picked out for you to wear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The way he said it made me start pulling things out of the gym bag. Black jeans, black scoop-neck T-shirt, black jogging socks, black Nikes, a black leather belt, my black suit jacket, the worse for being folded for two days, black bra, black satin panties -- Jean-Claude had been a bad influence on my clothing -- and under it all was the Browning, the Firestar, all the knives, an extra clip for the Browning, two boxes of ammo, and a new shoulder rig. It was one of the lightweight nylon ones with the holster itself angled for the front carry, downward draw that I favored. I always needed one with a very sharp downward angle to avoid scraping my breast every time I drew the gun. I'd found that the millisecond I lost from the angle was made up for from the second I lost every time I went past my breast and had the flinch reaction. Concealed carry is the art of compromise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know you like leather, but most of those would have to be tailored down for you. The straps on the nylon ones can be adjusted down smaller," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Edward. I was missing my rig." I looked at him, trying to read past the neutral baby blues. "Why this much ammo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Better to not need and have it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "Are we going some place where I'll need this much ammo?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I thought that, I'd have packed the mini-Uzi and the sawed-off shotgun. This is just the normal stuff you carry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I drew the big blade that would have normally rode down my back. "When they cut off the shoulder holster, they cut through the rig for this, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was it a specialty item?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought it must be because I asked around and no one had a sheath for concealment of something that large for the back, especially not when you throw in how damn narrow you are through the shoulders."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was a custom job." I laid the big knife back in the bag, almost sadly. "There's no way to conceal this thing without a rig for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did the best I could."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled at him. "No, it's great. I mean it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why are we taking the police in with us to Obsidian Butterfly?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him what Jean-Claude had told me, though not how the message had I gotten through. "With the police at our backs, she'll know it's not vampire politics and we'll probably be able to walk out without a fight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was leaning against the wall arms crossed. The white shirt didn't quite lay smooth over the front of him. His gun was showing but only if you knew what you were looking for. A paddle holster or a clip holster because the gun was riding outside the pants. It explained why the white shirt wasn't tucked in, and the fact that he was wearing a T-shirt under the shirt probably meant that he had something on him that would chafe without cloth between it and his skin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You still carrying that band of throwing darts?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can't see it, not with the shirt untucked." He didn't even try to deny it. Why should he?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because you're wearing an undershirt, and because the shirt is untucked. I know, it's partially to hide the gun, but you never wear an undershirt, so you've got to be wearing something under the shirt that would chafe without the undershirt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, and it was a pleased smile, almost proud, as if I'd done something smart. "I'm carrying two more guns, a knife, and a garrote. Tell me where they are and I'll give you a prize."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes had gone wide. "A garrote. Even for you that's a little Psychos'R'Us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. Is there a time limit?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "We've got all night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I guess wrong, is there a penalty?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the prize if I figure out where everything is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled that close, secretive smile that said he knew things that I didn't. "It's a surprise prize."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get out so I can get dressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched the belt where it lay on the bed. "This buckle didn't come black. Who painted it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I did."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He knew the answer. "So that if I'm out after dark, the buckle doesn't catch the light and give me away." I lifted the tail of his white shirt exposing the large ornate silver belt buckle. "This is like a freaking target after dark."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at me, making no move to lower the shirt. "It just clips on over the real buckle."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let the shirt slide back. "The buckle underneath?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's blacked," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We smiled at each other. It went all the way to our eyes. We did like each other. We were friends. "Sometimes I think I don't want to be you when I grow up, Edward, sometimes I think it's too late, I'm already there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile faded, leaving his eyes the color of winter skies and just as pitiless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only you decide how far gone you are, Anita. Only you can decide how far you'll go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at the weapons and the black clothing like funeral clothes, even down to the things that touched my skin. "Maybe it would be a start if I bought something pink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Pink?" Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, you know, pink, like Easter Bunny grass."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like cotton candy," he said. "Or almost everything women give each other at baby showers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When were you at a baby shower?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Donna's taken me to two of them. It's the new thing, couples baby showers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, eyes wide. "You, at a couples baby shower, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You in something the color of children's candy and baby doll clothes." He shook his head. "Anita, you are one of the least pink women I've ever met."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When I was a little girl, I'd have given a small body part to have a pink canopy bed, and ballerina wallpaper would have been perfect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave me wide, surprised eyes. "You, in a pink canopy bed with ballerina wallpaper." He shook his head. "Just trying to imagine you in a room like that gives me a headache."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at the things spread on the bed. "I was pink once, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Most of us start off soft," he said, "but you can't stay that way, not and survive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's got to be someplace I won't go, something I won't do, some line I won't cross, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" That one word held more curiosity than he usually allowed himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because if I don't have any lines, limits, then what kind of person does that make me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, moving the cowboy hat low on his head. "You're having a crisis of conscience."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah, I guess I am."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't go soft, Anita, not on my dime. I need you to do what you do best, and what you do best isn't soft or gentle or kind. What you do best is what I do best."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what is that? What is it that we do best?" I asked, and I knew the anger came through in my voice. I was getting angry with Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We do what it takes, whatever it takes, to get the job done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's got to be more to life than the ultimate practicality, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If it makes you feel any better, we have different motives. I do what I do because I love it. It's not just what I do. It's who I am. You do the job to save lives, to keep the damage down." He looked at me with eyes gone as empty and bottomless as any vampire's. "But you love it, too, Anita. You love it, and that bothers you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Violence is one of my top three responses now, Edward, maybe my number one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And it's kept you alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"At what price?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head, and now the blankness was replaced by anger. He was just suddenly moving forward. I caught his hand going under the shirt, and I was rolling off the bed, with the Browning in my hand. I had a round in the chamber and was falling back onto the floor with the gun pointed up, eyes searching for movement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My heart was thudding so loudly that I could barely hear, and I was straining to hear. A movement, something. He had to be on the bed. It was the only place he could have gone. From my angle I couldn't see anything on top of the bed, just the corner of the mattress and the trail of sheet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Knowing Edward, the ammo in the Browning was probably his homemade brew, which meant that it would pierce the bottom of the bed and go up into whatever lay on top of the bed. I felt the last of the air in my body slide outward, and I sighted on the underneath of the bed. The first bullet would either hit him or make him move, then I'd have a better idea of where he was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't shoot, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice made me move the gun barrel just a touch more right. It would take him mid-body because he was crouched up there, not lying down. I knew that without seeing it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It was a test, Anita. If I wanted to come against you, I'd warn you first, you know that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did know that, but ... I heard the bed creak. "Don't move, Edward. I mean it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think you can just decide to turn all this off. You can't. The genie is out of the bottle for you, Anita, just like it is for me. You can't unmake yourself. Think of all the effort, all the pain, that went into making you who you are. Do you really want to throw all that away?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was lying flat on my back, gun pointed two-handed. The floor was cold where the gown had gaped at my back. "No," I said, finally.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If your heart starts bleeding for all the bad things you do, it won't be the last thing that bleeds."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You really did this to test me. You son of a bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I move now?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took my finger off the trigger and sat up on the floor. "Yeah, you can move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He eased back off the other side of the bed as I stood up on this one. "Did you see how fast you went for the gun? You knew where it was, you had the safety off and a round chambered, and you were looking for cover, and trying to target me." Again there was that pride, like a teacher with a favorite student.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked across at him. "Don't ever do anything like that again, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A threat?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "No threat, just instinct. I came so close to putting a bullet through the bed and into you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And while you were doing it, your conscience wasn't bothering you. You weren't thinking, 'It's Edward. I'm about to shoot my friend.' "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said. "I wasn't thinking anything but how to get the best shot possible before you had time to shoot me." It didn't make me happy to say it. It felt like I'd been mourning dead pieces of myself, and Edward's little demonstration had confirmed the deaths. It made me sad, and a little depressed, and not happy with Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I knew a man once who was as good as you are," Edward said. "He started second-guessing himself, worrying about whether he was a bad person. It got him killed. I don't want to see you dead because you hesitated. If I have to bury you, then I want it to be because someone was just that good or that lucky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to be cremated," I said, "not buried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good little Christian, fallen Catholic, practicing Episcopalian, and you want to be cremated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want anyone trying to raise me from the dead or stealing body parts for spells. Just burn it all, thanks."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Cremated. I'll remember."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about you, Edward? Where do you want the body shipped?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't matter," he said. "I'll be dead, and I won't care."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No family?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just Donna and the kids."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They are not your family, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they will be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put the safety on the Browning. "We don't have time to discuss your love life and my moral crisis. Get out so I can get dressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had his hand on the door when he turned. "Speaking of love life, Richard Zeeman called."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That got my attention. "What do you mean Richard called?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He seemed to know that something bad had happened to you. He was worried."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When did he call?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Earlier tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did he say anything else?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That he'd finally called Ronnie and had her track down Ted Forrester's unlisted number. He seemed to think that you leaving a forwarding number with him would be a good idea." His face was utterly blank, empty. Only his eyes held a faint hint of amusement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So both the boys had finally grown frustrated at my silence. Richard had turned to my good friend, Ronnie, who happened to be a private investigator. Jean-Claude had taken a more direct route. But they'd both finally gotten hold of me on the same night. Would they compare notes?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What did you tell Richard?" I laid the gun on the bed with the rest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That you were all right." Edward was looking around the room. "Doctor Cunningham still not allowing you a phone in here?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nope," I said. I had managed to untie the back of the gown.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then how did Jean-Claude contact you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stopped in mid-motion. The gown slid off one shoulder and I had to catch it with my hand. It caught me off guard and I'm never as good a liar on the spur of the moment. "I never said it was a phone call."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then what was it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Just go, Edward. The night's not getting any younger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just stood there, looking at me. His face had gone all cold and suspicious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got the bra in one hand and turned my back on him. I let the gown slide to my waist, leaned back against the bed to hold it in place, and slipped the bra on. There was no sound from behind me. I got the panties and slipped them on underneath the gown. I had the jeans hallway up my legs under the cover of the gown when I heard the door hush open and close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned and found the doorway empty. I finished dressing. I had my toiletries in the bathroom already, so I threw them in the gym bag along with the big knife, and the boxes of ammo. The new shoulder holster felt odd. I was used to a leather one which fit tight and secure. I guess nylon was secure, but it was almost too comfortable, as if it seemed less substantial than my leather one had. But it beat the heck out of sticking it down my jeans.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The knives went in the wrist sheaths. I checked to see what kind of ammo the Firestar had in it. Edward's homemade stuff. I checked the Browning, and it was his stuff, too. The backup clip for the Browning was the Hornady XTP Silver-Edge. I changed the clip. We were going into the Obsidian Butterfly as cops, which meant if I had to shoot someone, I'd have to explain it to the authorities later. Which meant I didn't want to go in there with some possibly illegal homemade shit in my gun. Besides I'd seen what the Hornady Silver-Edge could do to a vampire. It was enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Firestar went into an Uncle Mike's inner pants holster, though truthfully the jeans were too tight for an inner pants holster. Maybe I wasn't spending enough time in the gym. I had been on the road more than I'd been home. The Kenpo was neat stuff, but it wasn't the same thing as a full workout with weights and running. Another thing to pay more attention to when I got back to St. Louis. I'd been letting a lot of things slide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally transferred the Firestar to the small of my back and hated it, but it dug in something fierce in front. I have a slight sway to my back so there's always more room for a gun there, but it wasn't a quick place to draw from. Something about a woman's hip structure makes a gun at the small of the hack not the best idea. That I kept the gun at the small of my back tells you just how tight the jeans were. Definitely going to have to get back into a regular gym schedule. The first five pounds are easy to get rid of, the second five are harder, and it gets even harder from there. I'd been chunky in junior high, close to fat, so I knew what I was talking about. So that no teenager out there will get the wrong idea and go all anorexic on me, I was a size thirteen in jeans, and that was at five foot nothing. See, I really was chunky. I hate women who complain about being fat when they're like a size five. Anything under size five isn't a woman. It's a boy with breasts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at the black jacket. Two days folded in a gym bag and it desperately needed to go to the dry cleaners. I decided to carry it folded over one arm, on the theory it would unwrinkle a little. I didn't really need to hide the weapons until we got to the club. The knives were illegal if I'd been a cop or acivvie, but I was a vampire executioner, and we got to carry knives. Gerald Mallory, the grandfather of our business, had testified before a senate subcommittee, or something like that, at how many times knives had saved his life. Mallory was well liked in Washington. It was his home base. So the law got changed to let us carry knives, even really big ones. If someone challenged me, all I had to do was whip out my executioner's license, and I was legal. Of course, that was predicated on them knowing the loophole in the law. Not every cop on the beat is going to know. But my heart is pure because I'm legal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and Ramirez were waiting for me in the hallway. They both smiled and the smiles were so close to identical it was unnerving. Will the real good guys please stand up? But Edward's smile never faltered. Ramirez's did. His gaze hesitated on the wrist sheath. The jacket hid the other one. I walked up to them smiling, and my eyes were shiny, too. I put a hand around Edward's waist and brushed my arm along the gun I'd thought was there at the small of his back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've called for backup," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had given me a quick Ted hug and let me go, though he knew I'd found the gun. "Great. It's been a long time since I visited a Master of the City with the police."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do you usually do it?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Carefully," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward turned his head away and coughed. I think he was trying not to laugh, but you can never tell with Edward. Maybe he just had a tickle in his throat. I watched him walk and wondered where in the world he was hiding the third gun.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_53" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36488253" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36488255" class="calibre7"></a>51 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">ONE OF THE THINGS I liked about working with the police was that when you went into a business and asked to speak with the manager or owner, no one argued. Ramirez flashed his badge and asked to speak with the owner, Itzpapalotl, also known as Obsidian Butterfly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hostess, the same darkly elegant woman that had shown Edward and me to a table last time, took Ramirez's business card, showed us all to a table, and left us. The only difference was this time we didn't get any menus. The two uniforms stayed at the door, but kept us in sight. I'd put the wrinkled jacket on to cover the guns and knives, but I was glad the club was dark, because the jacket had seen better days.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez leaned over and asked, "How long do you think she'll keep us waiting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Funny how he didn't ask if she would keep us waiting. "Not sure, but a while. She's a goddess and you've just ordered her to appear before you. Her ego won't let her be quick."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward was leaning in on the other side. "Half hour, at least."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A waitress came. Ramirez and I ordered Cokes. Edward got water. The lights on the stage dimmed, then came up brighter. We settled back for the show. Cesar had probably healed by now, but not by much. So it would either be a different wereanimal or a different show altogether.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was what looked like a stone coffin propped up on the stage, sitting on its end with the carved lid staring out at the audience. Our table wasn't as good as last time. I spotted Professor Dallas at her usual table, alone this time. She didn't seem to mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stone lid was carved in a crouching jaguar with a necklace of human skulls. The high priest Pinotl came onto the stage. He was dressed only in that skirt thing, a maxtlatl, that left the legs and most of the hips bare. I'd asked Dallas what the skirt was. His face was painted black with a stripe of white across the eyesand nose. His long black hair had been formed into individual strands curling at the ends. He wore a white crown, and it took me a second to realize it was made of bones. The stage lights flickered over the white bones, making them shimmer, and almost bleed white color when he moved his head. Finger bones had been restrung and formed a fan above the main band, reminiscent of the feathers I'd seen him wearing the first time. His ear spools of gold had been replaced by bones. He looked totally different from the first time, and yet the moment he stepped out on stage I knew it was him. No one else had had that aura of command.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned into Ramirez. "You wearing a cross?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His voice can be a little overwhelming without a little help."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's human, isn't he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's her human servant."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez turned his face full into mine, and we were too close. I had to move back to keep from bumping noses. "What?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did he really not know what a human servant was for a vampire? I didn't have time to give him a preternatural lesson, and this wasn't the place anyway. Far too many listening ears. I shook my head. "I'll explain later."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two very Aztec-looking bouncers came on stage and lifted the lid of the coffin off. They moved to one side with it, and the way they shuffled, muscles in their arms and back working, it looked heavy. There was a cloth-draped body in the coffin. I didn't know for certain that it was a body, but it was shaped like a body. There just aren't that many things that are body-shaped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl began to speak. "Those of you who have been with us before, know what it is to make sacrifice to the gods. You have shared in that glory, taken the offering into yourselves. But only the bravest, the most virtuous, are fit sacrifices. There are those that are not fit to feed the gods with their lives, but they, too, may serve." He drew the cloth off in one large movement, sending the black and sequined draped cloth spreading wide like a fisherman's net. As that glittering cloth fell to the stage, the contents of the coffin were revealed. Gasps, screams spread through the audience like ripples in a pool.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a body in the coffin. It was dried and wizened, as if the body had been buried in the desert and had mummified naturally. No artificial preservatives. The spotlight on the coffin seemed very bright, harsh. It showed every line in the dried skin. The skeletal shadow of bones underneath was painfully clear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were only three rows back, close enough to see more detail than I cared to see. At least this time they wouldn't be cutting anyone up. I really wasn't in the mood to see inside anyone's chest tonight. I was searching the crowd, trying to see if she was coming or if we were about to be surrounded by werejaguars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned and looked. The dead mummy's eyes were open. I looked at Edward. He answered the question without me having to say it. "Its eyes just opened. Nobody touched it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at that skull trapped under dry parchment skin. The eyes were full of something dry and brown. There was no life to the eyes, but they were open. The mouth began to open slowly, as if the mouth were on a stiff hinge. As the mouth opened a sound came out of it, a sigh that grew into a scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A scream that echoed through the room, reverberated off the ceiling, the walls the inside of my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a trick, right?" Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just shook my head. It wasn't a trick. Dear God, it wasn't a trick. I looked at Edward, and he just shook his head. He'd never seen this particular act either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The scream died, and there was a silence so thick you could have dropped a pin and heard it bounce. I think everyone was holding their breath, straining to hear. To hear what I didn't know, but I was doing it, too. I think I was trying to hear it breathe. I studied that skeletal chest, but it didn't rise and fall. It didn't move. I said a silent prayer of thanks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This one's energy went to feed our dark goddess, but she is merciful. What was taken shall be given back. This is Micapetlacalli, the box of death. I am Nextepeua. In legend I was the husband of Micapetlacalli, and I am still married to death. Death runs through my veins. My blood tastes of death. Only the blood of one consecrated to death will free this one of torment."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I realized that Pinotl's voice was just a voice, a good voice, like a good stage actor, but nothing more. Either he wasn't trying to bespell the audience, or I wasn't as susceptible tonight. The only change that I knew for certain was the marks. They were wide open now. I'd been told by my teacher and by Leonora Evans that the marks made me more vulnerable to psychic attack, but maybe on some things having a direct link to the boys helped me. Whatever it was, his voice didn't move me tonight. Great.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl drew an obsidian blade from behind his back. He'd probably been carrying it the way Edward and I were carrying guns, at the small of his back, He held his arm over the open coffin, over that gaping mouth. He drew the blade across his skin. It wasn't clear to the audience what he'd done. It would have been much better theater for Pinotl to slash his arm where the audience could see that first crimson slash. For him to hide it, there had to be some ritual significance, some importance, to those first drops of blood going into the corpse's mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dripped blood on the top of the thing's skull, dabbed it in the middle of that skull forehead, touched it to the throat, the chest, the stomach, the abdomen. He went down the line of chakras, energy points, of the body. I'd never believed in chakras until this year, when I'd found they were real, and they seemed to work. I hated all this new age stuff. I hated it worse when it worked. Of course, this wasn't new age stuff. This was very old stuff. With each touch of blood to that dried thing I felt magic. Each drop of blood made it grow, until the air hummed with it and my skin crept in waves of goose bumps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward sat unmoved, but Ramirez was rubbing his arms, chasing goosebumps. "What's happening?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was at the very least a sensitive. I guess I couldn't possibly be attracted to a totally normal human being. I whispered, "Magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, eyes showing too much white. "What kind?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. That I didn't know. I had a few clues, but I really had never seen anything like it, not exactly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl walked around the coffin in a counter-clockwise motion, bleeding arm and bloody knife held apart, palm up while he chanted. The power built and built in the air like close thunder until my throat closed with it, and I was having trouble breathing Pinotl came back to the front of the coffin where he'd begun. He made some kind of sign with his hands, then flung a spray of blood onto the body, and began to back slowly away. The lights dimmed until the only light was the harsh white light on the thing in the coffin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The power had built to a screaming pitch. My skin was trying to crawl off my body and hide. The air was too thick to breathe, as if it had grown more solid, thick with magic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something was happening to the body. The power broke like a cloud bursting with rain, and that invisible rain broke over the body, over the room, over us all, but the focus was that dried thing. The skin began to move, to twitch. It filled out as if water flowed beneath it. Something liquid moved under that dry, wasted skin, and where it flowed the skin began to stretch. It was like watching one of those blow up dolls fill up. Flesh, flesh was flowing under the skin. It plumped like some obscene kind of dough. The body, the man, began to thrash and twist against the sides of the coffin. The chest finally rose, drawing in a great draught of air, as if he were struggling back from the dead. It was like the opposite of that death rattle where the breath flows away for the last time. Of course, that was exactly what it was: life returning, the last breath being drawn back in. When he had air to breathe, he began to scream. One long ragged shriek after another. As fast as his healing chest could bring in the air, he screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dry hair on his head turned curly, brown, and soft. His skin was tanned and young, smooth and flawless. He'd been under thirty when he went into the coffin. Who knew how long he'd been in there? Even after he looked human again, he kept shrieking, as if he had been waiting a very long time to scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A woman near the front screamed and took off running for the door. The vampires had moved up quietly through the tables. I hadn't sensed them over the suffocating flow of magic, and the sheer horror of the show. Careless of me. A vampire caught the running woman, held her, and she grew instantly still. He led her quietly back to her table, to the man that was standing, wondering what he should do. The vampires moved through the crowd touching someone here, stroking a hand there, soothing, soothing, telling the great lie. It was safe, it was peaceful, it was good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez watched the vampires. He turned to me. "What are they doing?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Soothing the crowd so they don't all bolt for the exits."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They aren't allowed to use one on one hypnosis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think it's personal, more like crowd hypnosis." I looked back to the stage and found the man had collapsed onto the stage, pushing his way out of the coffin as soon as he got the strength. He was trying to crawl away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl appeared in the growing circle of light. The man screamed and held his hands up in front of his face as if to ward off a blow. Pinotl spoke, and he didn't yell, so he must have been using a microphone of some kind. "Have you learned humility?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man whimpered and hid his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Have you learned obedience?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man nodded his head over and over, still hiding his face. He started to cry, great sobs that made his shoulders shake. Three rows out and I could hear him sobbing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl motioned and the two bouncers that had opened the coffin walked on stage. They lifted the weeping man up, carrying him between them. His legs didn't seem to move yet, so they carried him, with an arm on either of their shoulders, his feet dangling off the floor. He wasn't a small man, and again you got that sense of how strong the two men were. They were human, too, not wereanything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two werejaguars walked on stage in their spotted skin clothes, and between them they held another man. No, not a man, a wereanimal. It was Seth. He'd been stripped down to a G-string that left very little to the imagination. His long yellow hair was unbound, streaked with light and color. He didn't struggle as they brought him up on stage. The jaguar men had him kneel in from of Pinotl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you acknowledge our dark goddess as your one and true mistress?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seth nodded. "I do." His voice didn't have the resonance of the other man's, and I doubted that the people in the back could hear him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She has given you life, Seth, and it is right that she should ask you give that life back to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Seth said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then I will be her hand, and take that which is hers." He cradled Seth's face between his hands. It was gentle. The two jaguar men let go of Seth and backed away. But they stayed close, almost as if afraid that he might run. But his face was turned upward with a near beatific expression on it, as if this were wonderful. He'd been so afraid of being tortured by Itzpapalotl's four sisters weird, and yet now he seemed at peace with what they were about to do. I thought I knew, and I hoped I was wrong. Just once when I expect something truly hideous is about to happen, I'd like to be wrong. It would be a nice change.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't flashy. There was no fire or light or even a shimmer of heat. Lines appeared on Seth's twenty-something skin. The muscles under his skin began to shrink as though he had a wasting disease, but what should have taken months was happening in seconds. No matter how willing the sacrifice, it can still hurt. Seth started screaming as fast as he could draw breath. His lungs were working better than the other man's, and he drew breath so fast, it was like one continuous shriek. The skin darkened as it drew in and in like something were sucking him dry. It was like watching a balloon shrivel. Except there was muscle and when the muscle vanished, there was bone, and finally there was nothing but dried skin over bones, and still he screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've become something of a connoisseur of screams over the years, and I've heard some good ones. Some of them have even been mine, but I'd never heard anything like this. The sound stopped being human and became like the high-pitched sound of some wounded animal, but underneath it all you knew, knew at a level that you couldn't even explain, that it was a person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, there was no more air for screaming, but that dry, empty mouth kept opening and closing, opening and closing. Long after the screaming stopped, that skeletal thing was still writhing, still flinging its head from side to side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl kept his hands pressed to Seth's face. He held him, and it looked gentle the whole time, but he had to be gripping with all the strength he had because he never lost his grip. While the flesh of that handsome face shriveled and died between his hands, Pinotl never moved. And through it all, Seth never once raised his hands up to save himself. He struggled because he couldn't not struggle, it hurt that much, but he never raised his hands against the other man. A willing sacrifice, a fit sacrifice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My throat was tight, and something burned behind my eyes. I just wanted it over now. I just wanted it to stop. But it didn't stop. The skeletal thing that had been Seth kept twitching, opening and closing its mouth, as if trying to scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl looked up, breaking eye contact with Seth for a heartbeat. The two jaguar men that had escorted him onto the stage came into the light. One of them held a silver needle with black thread on it. The other held a pale green ball, tiny, the size of a marble maybe. If I'd been sitting much further out, I'd have never known what it was. Jade, I think, a jade ball. They placed it in that gaping mouth, and the mouth closed. The other jaguar began to sew his mouth shut, driving the silver needle through the dry lipless flesh, tugging it tight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at the table too, resting my forehead on the cool stone of the table. I would not faint. I never fainted. But I had a sudden flash of the creature that Nicky Baco had created out of the werewolves. Some of them had had their mouths sewn shut. I'd never seen a power like this. It was too big a coincidence that two people in one town could do it and not be connected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez touched my shoulder. I raised my head and shook it. "I'm all right." I looked up and they were putting Seth in the coffin. I knew without trying to sense it that he was still in there. Still aware. He could not have understood what he was letting them do to him. He couldn't have. Could he?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl turned to the audience, and his eyes glowed with black fire the way a vampire's do when their power is high. Black flames licked around his eye sockets, and his skin seemed to glow with the power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thing that Seth had become was covered with the same black glittering cloth that had covered the last body. The jaguar assistants closed the coffin, securing the heavy lid. A collective sigh ran through the audience as if they were all relieved that it was covered. I wasn't the only one that didn't want to see it anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Itzpapalotl glided on stage. She was wearing the same crimson cloak as before. Pinotl went to one knee in front of her, extending his hands. She put her delicate hands on his strong ones, and I felt the rush of power like the brush of bird's wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl stood, holding her hand, and they turned to the audience and now both of them had eyes of black flame, spreading over their faces like a mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Soft spotlights filled the darkness of the tables like giant, soft fireflies. Each light found one of the vampires. They were pale and wan, hungry, fasted maybe, because I wasn't the only one that could tell they hadn't fed. You heard the exclamations through the audience, how pale, how frightening, oh, my god. No, she wanted everyone to see them for what they truly were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She and Pinotl stared off into that soft-lit dark and again I felt the rush of power, like a chittering flight of birds, brushing across my face, my skin, as if I had no clothes, and the swift passing of feathered things caressed my body. I felt it almost like a series of physical blows as the power hit each vampire, and their eyes filled with black fire. They became shining things with skin of alabaster, bronze, copper, all glowing, all beautiful with eyes filled with the light of black stars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they fell into line and began to sing. A song of praise to her, their dark goddess. Diego, the vampire we'd seen whipped senseless, passed by our table with a leash in his hand. On the end of that leash was a tall, pale-skinned man with curly yellow hair. Was it Cristobal, one of the starved ones? There were no starved ones in line. All of them were glowing and well fed and filled to bursting with a dark, sweet power like overripe berries before they fall to the ground, when they are poised between the sweetest of ripeness and rotting Life is often like that, the best balancing on a knife edge with the worst.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampires left the stage still singing her praises. Pinotl and she walked hand and hand down the steps, and I knew where they were coming, and I didn't want them near me. I could still feel the power as though I were standing in the middle of a cloud of butterflies, and they were beating at my skin with soft wings, beating at me, trying to come inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They came and stood in front of our table. Her face was smiling, soft as she gazed down at me. The black flames had quieted, but her eyes were still an empty blackness with a flicker of light in their depths. Pinotl's eyes echoed hers like a mirror, but it wasn't black flame. It was the blackness of endless night, and there were stars in her eyes, an endless fall of stars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had my arm. He had turned me to face him. We were both standing, though I didn't remember getting up. "Anita, are you okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to swallow twice to find my voice. "I'm okay, I think. Yeah, I'm okay." But the power was still beating against me like frantic wings, birds crying that they've been shut out in the dark and they want inside to the light and the warmth. How could I leave them crying in the dark when all I had to do was open and they would be safe?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Stop it," I said. I turned to face them. They were still smiling, still welcoming. She held her hand out to me, the other still holding Pinotl's hand. I knew if I took that hand that all this power would flow into me. That I could share it with them. It was an offering to share. But at what price, because there was always a price?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want?" I asked. I wasn't even sure who I was asking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want the knowledge of how your triad of power was achieved."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can tell you that. You don't need to do this."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know that I cannot tell truth from lie. It is not one of my powers. Touch me and I will gain the knowledge from you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wings were flowing over my skin as if the flying things had found a current of air just above my body. "What do I gain?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Think of one question, and if I have the answer, you will draw it from my mind."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez was standing. He motioned and I knew without looking that the uniforms were coming this way. "I don't know what's happening, but we're not doing it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Answer one question first," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I can," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who is the Red Woman's Husband?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her face showed nothing, but her voice was puzzled. "The Red Woman was another term for blood among the Mexicanas, among the Azteca. I truly do not know who the Red Woman's Husband would be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd half reached out to her. I didn't really mean to. Three things happened almost together. Ramirez and Edward both grabbed me to pull me back, and Itzpapalotl grabbed my hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The wings erupted into a torrent of birds. My body opened, though I knew I didn't, and the winged things, only half-glimpsed spilled into that opening. The power flowed into me, through me, and out again. I was part of some great circuit, and I felt the connection with every vampire she'd touched. It was as if I flowed through them, and they through me like water coming together to form something larger. Then I was floating in the soothing dark, and there were stars, distant and glittering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A voice, her voice came, "Ask one question, and it shall be yours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I asked, though my mouth never moved, still I heard the words. "How did Nicky Baco learn to do what Pinotl did to Seth?" With the words came the image of Nicky's creature so clear I could smell the dryness of it, and hear that voice whispering, "Help me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Images then, and they had force to them like things slamming into my body. I saw Itzpapalotl standing on the top of a pyramid temple surrounded by trees, jungle. I could smell the rich greenness of it, and hear the night call of a monkey, the scream of a jaguar. Pinotl knelt and fed from the bloody wound on her chest. He became her servant, and he gained power. Many powers, and one of them was this. And I understood how he'd taken Seth's essence. More than that I understood how it was done, and how it was undone. I knew how to unmake Nicky's creature, though what he'd done to them might mean that to bring them back to flesh would kill them. We didn't need Nicky to undo the spell; I could do it. Pinotl could do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She didn't ask if I understood. She knew when I had it all. "Now for my question." And before I could say or think "Wait," she was inside my head. She drew the memories from me: images, pieces, and I couldn't stop her. She saw Jean-Claude mark me, and she saw Richard, and she saw the three of us calling power on purpose for the first time. She saw that last night when I'd taken the second and third mark to save our lives, all our lives.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly back in my own skin, standing on one side of the table, still holding her hand. I was gasping, fast and faster, and I knew if I didn't get control, I was going to hyperventilate. She released my hand, and all I could do was concentrate on my own breathing. Ramirez was yelling at me, was I all right. Edward had his gun out, pointed at her. She and Pinotl just stood there, peaceful. I could see everything as though I were looking through crystal. The colors seemed darker, more vivid. Things stood out in bold relief, and it wasn't the things I would normally have noticed. The way the band in Edward's hat had a small ridge in it, and I knew where the garrote was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I could finally talk, I said, "It's all right. It's all right. I'm not hurt." I touched Edward's hand, lowering the gun to point at the table. "Chill, okay, I'm all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She said it would harm you if we forced you to let go early," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It might have," I said. I'd expected to feel badly, drained, tired, but I didn't. I felt energized, exhilarated. "I feel great."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't look great," Edward said, and there was something in his voice that made me look at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed my hand and started leading me through the tables towards the door. I tried to slow down and he jerked me with him, pulling me along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're hurting my wrist," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pushed through the doors with the gun still naked in his hand, my wrist gripped in his other hand. He hit the lobby doors with his shoulders. I remembered it being darker in the lobby, but it wasn't dark now. It wasn't exactly light. It just wasn't dark. He pushed one of the wall hangings apart, and there was the men's room door. He pushed it open before I could say anything. The urinals stretched empty, and I was grateful. The lights were bright, made me squint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward whirled me around to face the mirrors. My eyes were a solid shining black. There was no pupil, no white, nothing. I looked blind, yet I could see everything, every crack in the wall, the smallest dint on the edge of the mirror. I walked forward, and he let me go. I reached out until I could touch my reflection. I jumped when my fingers met the cool glass, as if I'd expected my hand to keep on going. I stared at my hand, and I could almost see the bones under my skin, the muscles working as I moved my fingers. Underneath that, I could see the flow of blood under my skin. I turned and looked at Edward. I looked at him slowly, and I could see the slight difference in the pants leg where the hilt of the knife was sticking out of his boot. There was the faintest line where the second knife was strapped to his thigh, and he could reach through his pants pocket and touch the hilt. There was a bulge in his other pocket, small, but I knew it was a gun, a derringer probably, but that last bit of knowledge was my knowledge. The rest was this extraordinary vision. It was like some fantasy spell of true seeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If this was how all vampires saw the world, then I should just stop trying to hide weapons. But I'd fooled vampires before, master-level vampires. So this was how she saw the world, but not necessarily how they all saw the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Say something, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wish you could see what I'm seeing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want to," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The garrote is in the band of your hat. You've got a knife in a sheath in your right boot, and a knife on your left thigh. You reach the hilt through your pants pocket. There's a derringer in your right pants pocket."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paled, and I saw it. I saw the pulse in his throat beat faster. I could see the small changes in his body as the fear rushed through it. No wonder she'd been able to read me so easily. But it should have worked like a lie detector for her. That's what other vamps and wereanimals pick up on, the minute changes we all make when we lie. Even the smell changes, so Richard said. So why couldn't she tell if someone were lying?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The answer came in a wave of clarity that you usually have to meditate to have. She couldn't read things she didn't have inside herself. She wasn't a goddess. She was a vampire, not like any vampire I'd ever known before, but that was what she was. Yet she believed she was Itzpapalotl the living personification of the sacrificial knife, the obsidian blade. She was lying to herself, and thus she couldn't see a lie in someone else. She didn't understand what truth was, so she couldn't recognize that either. She was fooling herself on a cosmic scale. And it weakened her. But I wasn't going to march out there and point out the error of her ways. She was just a vampire and not a goddess, but I'd had ataste of her power and I did not want to be on her dirty list.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With her power flowing through me like a rising wind, warm and smelling of flowers that I did not recognize, I didn't even want to burst her bubble. I hadn't felt this good in days. I turned back to the mirror, and my eyes were still that spreading blackness. I should have been scared or screaming, but I wasn't scared, and all I could think was, cool.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shouldn't your eyes go back to normal?" he asked, and again I felt that tightness of fear in him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eventually, but if we really want answers to our questions, we need to go back and ask her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave one quick nod, after you, and I realized that Edward didn't trust me at his back. He thought that she had possessed me. I didn't argue with him. I just walked through the door first and went back to talk to Itzpapalotl. I hoped Ramirez hadn't tried to put handcuffs on her. She wouldn't like that, and what she didn't like, her followers didn't like, and there were a hundred and two vampires. I had no idea how many werejaguars she had. This was a feeding not meant for them. But it was a small army, and Ramirez hadn't brought that much backup.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_54" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36488855" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36488858" class="calibre7"></a>52 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">RAMIREZ HADN'T PUT cuffs on anyone, but he had called for more backup. There were four more uniforms in the room, and about twenty werejaguars. The audience was watching it all as if it were part of the show. I guess if they could sit through what had been done to Seth, they could sit through a little police action.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was ahead of Edward as we came into the room. He fell a step behind me, the way we often did when one of us was going to be in charge of the next few minutes. Maybe my eyes were glowing black pits, but Edward still trusted me to calm the situation. Good to know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The werejaguars were moving through the tables, trying to flank the cops. The uniforms had their hands on their guns. The holsters were unbuckled. It wasn't going to take much to get a gun drawn and the shit to hit the fan. Be a shame to push this big a button when the vampires weren't trying to hurt anybody.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the jaguars was moving again, trying to close the circle around the police. I touched his arm. His power trembled over my hand, and it was more than just my own power, or the marks, that flared and answered that rush. He looked down at me and saw the eyes or felt her power, whatever it was, when I said, "Back up, go stand with the others." He did it. Progress. Now if only the police would be as reasonable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned to the police and started walking towards them. One of the new uniforms said, "Shit," hand on gun, other hand out like a traffic stop. "Don't come any closer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ramirez," I said, and made sure my voice carried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's okay. She's with us," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But her eyes," the uniform said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's with us. Let her through, now." Ramirez's voice was low, but the anger carried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniforms parted like a curtain, very careful not to touch me as I went past. I guess I couldn't blame them, though I wanted to. I was finally at the table with Edward behind me, and the nervous uniforms beyond him. I faced Itzpapalotl across the table. Pinotl was at her side, but they were no longer holding hands. His eyes were still as black as mine, but hers were normal. Strangely, with the hood pushed back to show that delicate face and those normal seeming eyes, she looked the most human of the three of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez had laid some of the pictures on the table. "Tell me what this is." It sounded like a question he'd asked before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you know what it is?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I truly do not. It does look like one of our artisans could have made it, but the eyes are stones that came with the Spaniards. I do not recognize all the elements of the symbolism."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you recognize some of them," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you recognize?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The bodies around the base could be the ones you drink."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean like you did with Seth tonight?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is it holding in its hands?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It could be many things, but I think it is the lesser things of the body. The heart is spoken for, as are the bones, and many other parts, but no god feeds on the ... " she frowned searching for the word, " ... intestines, and other viscera."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That makes sense," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt Ramirez shift beside me, as if he badly wanted to say it does. But he kept quiet because he was a good cop, and she was talking to me. Did it really matter why? Not right that second it didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You saw the creature that ... " it was my turn to hesitate. If the police knew what Nicky had done, it was an automatic death sentence. But frankly, he deserved it. The werewolves that he had sucked dry hadn't been willing sacrifices. And he'd cut them up, knowing they were still alive, he'd cut them up and sewn them into that monster behind the bar. It was one of the worst things I'd come across, and that was saying a lot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I made my decision and knew that it would eventually cost Nicky his life. "You saw the creature that Nicky Baco made?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "I saw. It is a corruption of a great gift."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does his master gain power through it just like you do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, and Nicky Baco gains power through it, much as Pinotl does. As you have."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can he pass that power to others, like maybe a werewolf pack?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She seemed to think about that, head to one side, then finally nodded. "It would be possible to share with wereanimals if you had some bond with them of a mystical nature."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's vargamor for the local pack," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am not familiar with the word vargamor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a wolf term. "It's their witch, their brujo, and they are bound to the pack."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then certainly he could share the power with them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nicky said he didn't know where this god lay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He lies," she said. "You do not gain this power without the touch of your god's hand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd gotten that from the images that had filled me, but I wanted it confirmed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then Nicky should be able to take us to the place where the god is hiding?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded. "He knows."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you have a problem with us hunting down and killing a god from your pantheon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A look crossed her face that I didn't understand. "If it is a god, then you cannot kill it, and if you can kill it, then it is not a god. I do not mourn the death of false gods."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was kind of funny coming from her, but I let it go. It wasn't my job to convince her what she was, or what she wasn't. "Thank you for your help, Itzpapalotl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave me a long look, and I knew what she wanted, but ... "You are indeed a goddess, but I cannot serve two masters," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His power is lust, and you deny him his power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the heat rush up my face and wondered what a blush looked like with glowing black eyes. It wasn't what she'd said. It was me knowing what she'd seen in my head. She knew more intimate details than my best friend. Just as I'd shared what she and Pinotl considered a very private and intimate moment of their sharing. Fair is fair, but somehow I didn't think Itzpapalotl blushed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought I was just denying him sex."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at me the way you'd look a child that was deliberately misunderstanding a point. "Tell me, Anita, what is the base of my power?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The question surprised me, but I answered it; the time for lying between us was past. "Power, you feed off of pure power regardless of the source."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled, and that thread of power in me smiled with her, made me feel glowy all over. "Now, what is your master's base of power?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd been running from this particular truth for a very long time. Not all master vampires had a secondary power base, another way to draw energy, other than blood or human servants or animals to call. But some did, and Jean-Claude was one of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita," she said, as if reminding me that I was supposed to be saying something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sex, his base of power is sex," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Again, she smiled happily at me, and I felt that warm answering glow. It was good to be truthful. It was good to be smart. It was good to please her. And that of course was one of her dangers. If you stayed near her long enough, it might become an end in itself to please her. Even thinking it, I couldn't be afraid of her. Good that I didn't live in Albuquerque.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"By denying him and your wolf, you cripple not just the triad of power, but him. You have crippled him, Anita. You have crippled your master."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard myself say, "I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It is not me that you must be sorry to. It is him. Go home and beg his forgiveness, lay yourself at his feet and feed his power."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I closed my eyes, because what I really wanted to do was nod and just agree. I was pretty sure the spell would wear off before I got home to St. Louis, but putting this woman and Jean-Claude together as a team would have been my undoing. Even now, I was glad he was hundreds of miles away, because I nodded, eyes still closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took the nod as assent. "Good, very good. If your master is grateful for my aid in this matter, let him contact me. I know that we can come to an understanding."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And for the first time since she'd zapped me, I felt a thrill of fear. I looked at her through a veil of her power and was afraid of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She read it in me. "You should always be afraid of gods, Anita. If you are not afraid, then you are a fool and you are not a fool." She looked past me to Ramirez. "I believe that I have helped you all that I can, Detective Ramirez."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, "Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Yeah, it's time to go see Nicky Baco."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If Nicky lied to us, then so did his pack leader," Edward said, "because he said Nicky was telling the truth about not knowing where the monster was."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If Nicky can share this kind of power with the werewolves, then I know why the pack lied."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The werewolves will fight to protect Nicky," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We looked at each other. "It'll be a blood bath if the police go in force." I shook my head. "But what choice do we have?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nicky isn't at the bar," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We turned to him, said in unison, "Where is he?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the hospital. Someone beat the shit out of him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward and I exchanged glances, and we both smiled. "Back to the hospital, then," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Back to the hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Ramirez. "If that's all right with you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you prove what you've been saying about Baco?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then it's a death sentence. He'll know that. I've seen Baco in an interrogation. He's tough, and he knows that he has nothing to gain and everything to lose by telling us the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we'll have to find something that he's more afraid of than being executed." I couldn't help it. I turned and looked at Itzpapalotl. I met her eyes and there was no pull to them now. Her own power protected me from her. No stars, no endless night, just a dark knowledge of what I was thinking, and her approval of the plan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We can't do anything illegal," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course not," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean it, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, and watched him flinch when he met my eyes, "Would I do that to you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He searched my face as if trying to decipher it. It was the way I looked at Edward sometimes, or Jean-Claude. Finally, he said, "I don't know what you'd do." And that, for better or worse, was the truth.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_55" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36489221" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36489223" class="calibre7"></a>53 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">EDWARD GOT HIS SUNGLASSES out of the glove compartment and handed them to me before we went inside the hospital. My eyes hadn't changed back, though I knew the effect was beginning to wear off, because the fact that my eyes were still black and glowy was beginning to worry me. It was a good sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky Baco was not in a private room. The police had his roommate moved to a different room. Nicky was in traction, and wasn't going anywhere. He lay in the bed and looked smaller than I knew he was. The leg that had been badly broken was in a cast from toe to thigh. Little pulleys and cords held his leg up at an odd angle that must have been hell on the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez had been questioning Nicky for about thirty minutes and was getting nowhere. Edward and I leaned against the wall and watched the show. But Nicky had done exactly what we'd feared he'd do. He'd grasped his situation and his options right away. He was going to die. So why should he help us?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We know where the monster you made is, Nicky. We know what you did. Help us stop this thing before it kills again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And what?" Nicky said. "I know the law. There's no life in prison for a witch that uses magic to kill. It's an automatic death sentence. You got nothing to offer me, Ramirez."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pushed away from the wall and touched Ramirez's arm. He looked at me, and the frustration was already showing. He'd been informed that Lieutenant Marks was on the way. He wanted to crack Baco before Marks arrived so he would get credit and not his lieutenant. Political, but the reality in most police work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I ask a few questions, Detective?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a breath, let it out slow. "Sure." He stepped back to let me stand beside the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down at Nicky. Someone had handcuffed one of his wrists to the bed rail. I wasn't sure it was necessary with the traction, but it made a nice point. "What would the Red Woman's Husband do if he knew you gave away his secret hideout?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared up at me, and even through the sunglasses I could see the hate in his eyes. I could also see the fast rise and fall of his chest, the thud of the pulse in his neck. He was scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Answer me, Nicky."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'd kill me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made him frown. "What do you mean, how?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I mean what method of death would he use? How would he kill you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky shifted in the bed, trying to find a comfortable spot. The leg pulled tight, and he jerked on the handcuffed wrist, making it rattle up and down the bar. There was no comfortable position for Nicky tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'd probably send his monster after me. It'd cut me up and gut me like it's done to the others."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"His minion slaughtered all the witches or psychics, and skinned the mundanes. That's it, isn't it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you're so smart, you don't need to ask me. You have all the answers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not all of them," I said. I touched the bed rail that he was cuffed to, wrapped my hands around it on either side of the cuff so he couldn't slide it without hitting one of my hands. "I've seen the bodies, Nicky. It's a bad way to go, but there are worse things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a harsh laugh. "Being gutted alive -- doesn't get much worse than that," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the sunglasses off and let him see the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped breathing for a heartbeat. He just stared up at me, eyes growing wide, breath trapped in his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his hand, and he screamed. "Don't touch me! Don't you fucking touch me!" He was jerking on the handcuff frantically, over and over, as if that would help.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez came to stand on the other side of the bed across from me. He looked a question at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't hurt him, Hernando."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get her the fuck away from me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell us where the monster is, and I'll send her out of the room."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky looked from one to the other of us, and the fear showed on his face now. You didn't have to have vampire vision to see it. "You can't do this to me. You're the cops."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're not doing anything to you," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky's eyes flicked back to me. "You're the cops. You can execute me, but you can't torture me. That's the law."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're right, Nicky. The police aren't allowed to torture prisoners." I leaned in close and whispered, "But I'm not the police."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started tugging on the chain again, rattling it up and down the bar. "Get her away from me, now! I want a lawyer. I want a fucking lawyer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez turned to the two uniformed cops waiting by the door. "Go call Mr. Baco a lawyer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two cops looked at each other. "Both of us?" one asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "Yeah, both of you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They exchanged another look and went for the door. The taller one asked, "How long you think this phone call should take?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A while, and knock before you come back in."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniforms left, and it was just Edward, Ramirez, Nicky, and me. Nicky was staring up at Ramirez. "You're a good cop, Ramirez. I've never heard any dirt on you. You won't let her hurt me. You're a good guy. You won't let her hurt me." His voice was high and frantic, but each time he said it, he seemed more sure of himself, more certain that Ramirez's goodness would be his shield.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was probably right on one thing, Ramirez wouldn't let me hurt him, but I was willing to bet that Ramirez would let me scare him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I reached out like I'd stroke Nicky's face. He jerked back, out of reach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ramirez, shit, please, don't let her touch me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll be over there if you need me, Anita." He walked away from the bed and went to sit in a chair at the end of the room near Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky screamed after him, "Ramirez, please, please!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his mouth with fingertips, and he froze under that gentle touch. His eyes moved slowly, so slowly until he was looking up into mine. "Shhh," I said and lowered my face towards his, as if I'd kiss his forehead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth, drew a breath, and shrieked. I grabbed his face between my hands the way I'd seen Pinotl do, but I knew that it didn't have to be the hands. I could suck him dry with a kiss. "Shut up, Nicky, shut up!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to cry. "Please, oh, god, please don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did the werewolves beg like this?" I asked. "Did they, Nicky?" I pressed my hands into his face until the skin puckered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said, voice squeezed by how tight I was holding his face. I had to force myself to release his face, or I was going to leave red marks. Couldn't mark him up. Couldn't give Marks a reason to punish Ramirez.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned my arms on the bed rail that he was chained to. He pulled his hand to the length of the chain, but didn't struggle. He watched me the way mice watch cats when they know there's no way out. I leaned towards him. It was a very casual movement, but it put my face close to his, not close enough to touch but close enough that he got an up close look at the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, Nicky, there are worse things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need me to bring the others back. You do me, and I can't give them back their lives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You see, Nicky. I don't need you anymore. I know how to bring them back all by myself." I leaned over, balancing on tiptoe and my arms on the rail, leaning in, as if to whisper in his ear. "Your services are no longer needed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please," he whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I spoke with my mouth so close to his face that I could feel my breath coming back from his skin in a warm pulse. "The doctors will certify you dead, Nicky. They'll bury you in a box somewhere, and you'll hear every shovel full of dirt as it hits the coffin lid. You'll lie there in the dark and scream in your head, and no one will hear you. Maybe we'll have to put a jade bead in your mouth and sew it shut to make you lie still."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tears trailed from his eyes, but his face was blank, as if he didn't know he was crying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell them where your master is, Nicky, or I swear I will do worse than kill you." I kissed him on the forehead, very gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He whimpered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kissed the tip of his nose, the way you do with children. I hovered over his mouth. "Tell them, Nicky." I lowered my mouth over his, our lips brushed, and he turned his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll tell you. I'll tell you anything you want to know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I moved away from the bed and let Ramirez move up to take his turn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A phone rang, and Edward pulled his cell phone from his back pocket. He opened the door and went into the hall to take the call.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez's voice was not happy. "What do you mean you can't tell me how to get there?" He had his notebook open, his pen poised, and nothing written down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to walk back toward the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nicky held his hands up as if to ward me off. "I swear to you that I can take you to it, but I can't give you directions and be sure you'll find it. I don't want to send you out into the dark, and have you not find it. You'd blame me, and it wouldn't be my fault."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez looked at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. He was too scared to lie, and it was too stupid a story to be made up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can take you to it. If I'm there, I can take you to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Of course, if you're there, you can warn your master," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't do that." But I saw the change in his skin color, the rise in breathing, the flick of his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Liar," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, but I'd be a fool not to try and get away. They're going to kill me, Anita. Why shouldn't I try to get away?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I guess I couldn't blame him on that one. "Call Leonora Evans. She's a witch. Have her ward him, make sure that he can't contact his master by anything other than yelling."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And the yelling?" Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gag him when the time comes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You trust Leonora Evans to do this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She saved my life, so I guess I do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez nodded. "Okay, I'll call her in." He looked at the traction ropes. "The doctors aren't going to want him going anywhere tonight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Talk to them, Hernando. Explain what's at stake. Besides, what good does it do to heal him if you're just going to turn around and execute him?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez looked at me. "That was harsh."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, it was, but it's still true."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward knocked and came in the door just far enough to say, "I need you out here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I glanced at Ramirez. "I think we can take it from here, thank you," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My pleasure." I slipped the sunglasses back on as I followed Edward out into the hall. The moment I looked at Edward's face, I knew something bad had happened. He didn't show it the way a normal person would, but it was there, the tightness around his eyes, the way he held himself, carefully, as if he were afraid to move too suddenly or he'd break. I don't think I'd have seen it without the vampire vision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong?" I stepped in close, because something told me this was not for police consumption. With Edward it so seldom was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took me by the arm down the hallway, further away from the uniforms that were staring our way. "Riker has Donna's kids." His grip tightened, and I didn't tell him it hurt. "He has Peter and Becca. He's going to kill them if I don't bring you to him now. He knows we're at the hospital. He's given me an hour to make the drive, then he starts torturing them. If I'm not there in two hours, he'll kill them. If I bring the police in, he'll kill them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his arm. If it had been almost any other friend, I'd have hugged him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is Donna okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He seemed to realize he was digging into my arm and let me go. "This is Donna's night at her group. I don't know if the babysitter's still alive, but Donna won't even be home for two, maybe three hours. She doesn't know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's go," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We turned and started walking down the hallway. Ramirez yelled behind us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are you two going? I thought you'd want to be in on it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Personal emergency," Edward said, and kept walking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned around, walking backwards, trying to talk at the same time. "In two hours call Ted's house. The call will be forwarded to his cell phone. We'll join you on the monster hunt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why two hours?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The emergency will be taken care of by then," I said. I had to touch Edward's arm, to keep walking backwards and not fall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything could be over two hours from now," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry." Edward was at the doors that led into the next section of hallway. He pulled me through, the doors shut behind us. He was already punching numbers on the cell phone. "I'll have Olaf and Bernardo meet us at the turnoff to Riker's place."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't know which of them answered, but he gave a long list of things to bring, and he made them write it down. We were out of the hospital, through the parking lot and getting into his Hummer before he clicked the telephone off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward drove, and all I had to do was think. Not a good thing. I was remembering last May when some bad guys kidnapped Richard's mother and younger brother. They'd sent us a box with a lock of his brother's hair, and his mother's finger in it. Everyone that had touched them was dead. Everyone that had hurt them would never hurt anyone again. I only had two regrets: one, that I hadn't gotten there in time to save them from being tortured; two, that the bad guys hadn't suffered enough before they died.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If Riker hurt Peter and Becca ... I wasn't sure I wanted to see what Edward would do to him. I prayed as we rode through the darkness, "Please, God, don't let them be hurt. Let them be safe." Riker could be lying. They could already be dead, but I didn't think so. Maybe because I needed them to be alive. I remembered Becca in her sunflower dress with that sprig of lilacs in her hair, laughing in Edward's arms. I saw Peter's sullen resentment when Edward and his mother touched. I remembered the way Peter had stood up to Russell in the restaurant when he threatened Becca. He was a brave kid. I tried not to think about what could be happening to them right this second.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had gone very, very quiet. When I looked at him, the dark crystal vision showed me further into him than I'd ever seen before. I didn't have to guess whether he cared for the children. I could see it. He loved them. As much as he was capable of it, he loved them. If someone hurt them his vengeance was going to be a thing of great and awesome terror. I wouldn't be able to stop him no matter what he wanted to do to them. All I would be able to do was stand and watch and try not to get too much blood on my shoes.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_56" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36489685" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36489687" class="calibre7"></a>54 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS A DARK night. It didn't seem to be cloudy, just dark, as if something besides clouds was blocking the moon. Or maybe that was just my frame of mind. The one thing I'd wanted to avoid while I was doing my favor for Edward was dealing with Edward at his most illegal. We'd picked up Olaf and Bernardo at a crossroads in the middle of nowhere with those empty rolling hills stretching out and out into the darkness. There had been no cover except some scrub bushes, and when Edward stopped the car and cut the engine, I thought we'd have a wait ahead of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get out. We'll need to suit up." He'd gotten out without waiting to see if I was getting out or not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got out. The silence seemed as big as the sky overhead, an immense emptiness. A man stood up not five feet in front of me. I had the Browning pointed before the man held a flashlight under his face and I realized it was Bernardo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf had magically appeared on the other side of the road. There was no ditch on either side of the road. There was nothing on the side of the road. What was even more impressive was that they began lifting large black bags of equipment out of that same nowhere. If we'd had the time, I'd have asked how they did it, though I doubt I'd have understood the answer. Training probably. Training I didn't have, though it might be nice to get it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, most of the things I hid from could have heard Bernardo's and Olaf's heartbeat no matter how well hidden they were. It was almost a relief to be up against mere humans. It meant you could at least hide in the dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twenty minutes later we were on the road again, and Edward hadn't been joking on the suiting up part. I'd had to strip to my bra and put on a Kevlar vest. It was my size.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which meant it had to be a special purchase because Kevlar doesn't come in my size off the rack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's your prize for spotting all the weapons," Edward said. He always knows just what to buy me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I needed to adjust the shoulder holster after putting on the vest, but I was told to do it in the car. I didn't argue. We had less than ten minutes to get to Riker's place. My T-shirt didn't quite fit over the body armor. I mean it did fit, but not well. Bernardo handed me a black, long-sleeved, man's shirt. "Put it on over the T-shirt. Button it up part way after you've got your holsters adjusted."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shoulder holster was just a matter of readjusting straps. The inner pants holster just didn't work once the vest was on. I put the Firestar down the front of my jeans and angled it until I was as happy as I was going to get with the way it fit. It still dug into my stomach, but I wanted it where I could get it fast. I could live with bruises tomorrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I practiced drawing the Browning through the half open shirt a few times, though it's hard to practice drawing from a sitting position, but we didn't have time for me to get out and practice standing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You guys are making me nervous, putting me in Kevlar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't argue," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't have time to argue. Tell me what to do, I'll do it. But why the Kevlar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Riker employs twenty men, ten are just hired muscle. We've met half of them already. But he's got ten that he keeps close to him. Three ex-seals, two ex-army rangers, one ex-police, and four guys who have black files. Which means whatever they do or did, it's top secret and maybe rogue."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I remembered what FBI Agent Bradford had said about Olaf. That he had a black file. "Isn't this a little too commando raidish for a pot hunter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf continued like I hadn't said anything. Bernardo started showing me the contents of a large leather purse at the same time. I listened to Olaf and watched Bernardo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Riker has connections in South America that supply him with contraband. Suspicions are that he's running more than just artifacts. Maybe drugs. The locals have no idea how big a bad guy they've got here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When did you find all this out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After they came to the house," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you find all this out?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If we told you, we'd have to kill you," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to smile, thinking it was a joke, but I caught a glimpse of his face as the only car we'd seen passed by, flashing lights over us as it passed. He didn't look like he was joking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo said, "This looks like a can of hair spray. You can even squirt out a small amount of cresol." He demonstrated. "But lift here." He did and revealed a second layer of metal. "This is the pin. This is the depressor. It's an incendiary grenade. You pull the pin, let up on the depressor, and you have three seconds to get a minimum of fifty feet away from it. It's got white phosphorus in it. This shit burns under water. If you get a tiny piece on your sleeve, it will eat through the cloth, your skin, bone, all the way to the other side."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He clicked the secret compartment shut and handed it to me. "Damned heavy for hairspray," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but how many ex-navy whatevers are going to notice?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had a point. Next was a small thing of breath freshener that was really heavy-duty mace. A key ring that when you hit the button on it, a four-inch blade popped out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a heavy ink pen that actually wrote, that if you pressed the little switch, a six-inch blade came out the end. There was real perfume with a higher than normal alcohol content. "Go for the eyes," was the advice. A disposable lighter, because you never know when you might need some fire, and a package of cigarettes to explain the lighter. There was a transmitter in the collar of the black shirt that would allow them to find me inside the buildings or at least find the shirt. I was beginning to feel like I'd been shanghaied into a James Bond movie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lifted out a hairbrush with a heavier than normal handle. "What's this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a hairbrush," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh. I looked at Edward. The only thing he'd changed was putting a white Kevlar vest under his undershirt and white shirt. He was even still wearing his cowboy hat. Olaf and Bernardo were both dressed in commando black, and backpacks that looked full. They were bristling with weapons, blacked so they didn't show up at night, but not hidden.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I take it that the guys here aren't going in the front door with us," I said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said. He hit the brakes, and Olaf and Bernardo slipped out of the car and into the darkness. Because I knew what I was looking for, I could see them in a running crouch going over the hill. But if you hadn't been looking, you'd have missed them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're scaring me, Edward. I'm not like a commando raid, James Bond kind of girl. Where the hell did you get a hairspray grenade?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A lot of female secret service now. It's a prototype."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice to know where my tax dollars are going."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were going down a long gravel driveway. There was a big house sitting; up on a hill. Lights blazed out of the windows as if someone had gone through and hit every light, as if they were scared of the dark. If Riker really thought the monsters were coming, the analogy was accurate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward outlined his plan as we drove the last few yards. I was to pretend to do a spell of protection for Riker. While I delayed, Olaf and Bernardo would try to find the kids. If they couldn't find them or couldn't get them out, Olaf was supposed to find a man and kill him as messily as possible in a short space of time, leave the body where it would be found, and hope to make Riker think the monsters had already gotten inside. They might take us to the point where the monster kill had been found to get my expert advice, which would put us and whoever was with us, hopefully Riker, near where Olaf and Bernardo could help us kill them. If that failed, Bernardo would start blowing things up. Which would create panic and hopefully allow us to find the kids. Unless Bernardo decided the structure wasn't sturdy enough to blow up and not cave in around us. Then we'd need another plan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stopped the car at a gravel turnaround near the crest of the hill. Men armed with automatic submachine guns walked towards the car. None of them were Harold or Russell. They moved like Olaf and Edward moved, like predators.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't believe they're going to give back the kids, do you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you?" he asked. He'd put his hands on the steering wheel at ten and two, in plain sight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I raised my hands in the air where they could be seen. "No," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the kids are okay, we'll do as little killing as possible, but if the kids aren't okay, it's zero survivors."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The police are going to find out about this one, Edward. You will blow your Ted 'Good ol' boy' Forrester image all to hell."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If the kids don't make it out, I don't give a damn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How will Olaf and Bernardo know whether to kill or not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's a wire worked into my vest. They've both got ear pieces, so they'll be able to hear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to tell them to kill," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I have to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The machine-gun-toting men were at either side of the car. They made motions for us to get out. We did what they wanted, being sure to keep our hands in sight. We wouldn't want any misunderstandings.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_57" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36489942" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36489944" class="calibre7"></a>55 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE MACHINE GUN GUY on my side wasn't that tall, five foot eight or maybe shorter, but his arms were corded with so much muscle that veins stood out against his skin like snakes. Some people vein up if they lift even a little, but most of the time you don't get that much popping up without some major effort. It was as if he was trying to make up for the lack of height by being obscenely strong. Most muscle-bound guys are slow and rarely know how to fight. They rely on sheer strength and just being a bully. But this one moved smoothly, almost gliding on his feet, sort of sideways, which hinted at some martial art training. He moved well, and his bicep was bigger than my neck. He was also pointing a very modern looking submachine gun at me. Muscle bound, trained fighter, and better armed than me -- weren't there rules against that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Lean on the hood, assume the position," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put my hands on the hood and leaned. The engine was still warm, not hot, but warm. Muscle man kicked my legs. "Further apart." I did what he asked. I looked across the hood and met Edward's eyes. He was getting the same treatment on his side from a taller, slender man who wore silver frame glasses. Edward's eyes were at their empty, pitiless best. But somehow I knew he wasn't pleased. When I realized that, I realized I still had the sunglasses on, and my vision was still good through dark lenses at night. Funny, how neither Olaf nor Bernardo had asked in the car. There hadn't been time for many questions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire vision had toned down, but it was still there or I'd have been night blind with the glasses on. Wondered what Muscle Man would think of the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He kicked my right leg again, hard enough that it hurt. "I said, lean!" He had that drill sergeant voice going.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I lean any further, I'll be lying down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt him move behind me and had my head turned to the side when he slapped me in the back of the head, hard enough that my cheek hit the hood. It would have hurt if it had been the front, nose, mouth. He'd meant it to hurt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do what you're told, and you won't get hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was beginning not to believe him, but I leaned, cheek pressed to the hood, arms out flat like I was being nailed down, feet spread so far that one good foot sweep would have dumped me to the ground. But it was nice and unsteady, the way he wanted it apparently. In a way it was flattering. He was treating me as a dangerous person. A lot of bad guys don't. Usually, they live to regret it, but not always. If muscle man died tonight, it wasn't going to be because of carelessness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He searched me, top to bottom, even running his fingers through my hair, He'd have found Bernardo's stiletto hairpins that the others had missed at the house. He took the sunglasses off and looked at them as if looking for things that I would never have thought to find in a pair of sunglasses. He didn't really look at my face, didn't catch the eyes, or maybe they weren't glowing black anymore. Muscle Man found everything but the transmitter that was sewn somewhere in the shirt and the contents of the purse. He did dump it out on the ground and shine a flashlight on every item. He made sure the ink pen wrote, that the hairspray sprayed, and took the breath freshener mace as if he recognized it on sight. But that was all he took out of the purse, though once it was empty, he kneaded it with his left hand, the right still holding the submachine gun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This wouldn't be one of those with a compartment for a gun, would it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd raised my head enough to watch him empty the purse, so we could look at each other while he held the gun on me and glanced down at things. "No, it wouldn't be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was betting it would be," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nope," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He finished by standing on the purse and stomping it flat. Glad it wasn't really my purse. "I guess there's no gun," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Told ya."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took three big steps back, out of reach. He was treating me like I was dangerous. Darn. I sometimes counted on passing for harmless, but I guess I'd been packing too much hardware to pass for anything but dangerous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can stand up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He tossed the sunglasses to me. I caught them. My eyes were in the light from the house now, but he never flinched. Apparently, the glowy stuff had faded. He motioned with the gun for me to pick up the contents of the purse. I put everything back inside and almost put the sunglasses in, but decided to put them back on. Two reasons: one, when the night got too dark to wear them, I'd know the vampire stuff had left me completely; two, knowing Edward, they were probably expensive, and I didn't want to get them scratched up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He motioned with the gun, and said, "Just walk slow, straight to the house, and it'll be all right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't I believe you?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me with eyes as dead and empty as a doll's. "I don't like smart mouths."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll have to wait until I do the spell before you can shoot me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So they tell me. Get moving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The slender guy with glasses who had Edward at gunpoint was waiting for muscle man to get me moving. When I started walking, Glasses moved Edward forward. They kept us walking side by side, telling us to stay together. They kept us together so that if they had to start shooting they could kill us both with one spray of bullets, True professionals. I hoped Olaf and Bernardo were as good asthey were supposed to be. If they weren't, we were in deep trouble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The house was one of those nouveau architect homes that people with more money than taste are always hiring people to build. It looked like a giant had dumped white concrete in a free form slide putting windows and doors here and there like raisins in an oatmeal cookie. A nice surprise, but never where you expect to find them. The mismatched windows made the house look deformed. The door was off center but round, like a wide open mouth. The windows were not only round and mismatched, but the number of windows didn't seem to match the floor plan as if some of the windows looked into blank walls where no room could possibly be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">White steps led up to the round door like one of those cartoon tongues that spill out of mouths and go tumbling downstairs. The steps weren't wide enough for us to walk side by side, so Edward moved a couple of steps ahead. Neither of the men behind us protested, so we kept moving.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been so long since I carried a purse instead of a fanny pack that it felt awkward on my shoulder. I had to keep a hand on it to keep it from swinging around. I'd put it on the left shoulder, leaving my right hand uncompromised out of habit. Not that I had anything left to draw or pull or whatever. But it was always good to have your strong hand empty, just in case. So Edward and Dolph had always told me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the top of the porch in a spill of bright yellow light, they told us to stop. We stopped. They moved up to flank us and move a little back to either side. I didn't understand what they were doing at first, until the door opened and another man pointed the same kind of submachine gun at us. Muscle Man and Glasses had moved out of his line of fire and moved so they wouldn't catch him in their fire line. It is not easy to use three submachine guns in that small a space without crossing your own men, but they made it look easy, very smooth. The other men had carried an extra clip for the sub guns in a thigh holster, but this one had two clips at his waist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man in the door was African American and tall, like Olaf's height, very six foot plus. He was also completely bald just like Olaf. If they ever met, they'd look like light and dark versions of each other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What took so long?" he asked; his voice matched the body, deep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They were carrying a lot of hardware," Muscle Man said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The new guy was smirking at me. "From the way Russell talked I expected you to look like Amanda. You're just a little bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amanda the Amazon that came to Ted's house?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "I wouldn't believe much that Russell said."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He said you broke his nose, kicked him in the balls, and beat his head in with a piece of wood."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything but the last bit. If I'd beaten his head in, he'd be dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the hold up, Simon?" Muscle Man asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deuce is having some trouble locating the wand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deuce would have trouble keeping track of his head if it wasn't attached," Muscle Man said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"True, but we still wait." He was looking at both of us, the gun held easily in his big hands. "What's with the sunglasses, bitch?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I let the name calling go. They had all the guns. "They look cool," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed then, a warm growly sound. A nice laugh if he hadn't been armed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about you, Ted? I hear you are a bad dude."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward transformed into Ted, like a magician deciding he was going to have to perform after all. "I'm a bounty hunter. I kill monsters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon looked at him, and there was something about the way he did it that said the Ted act wasn't fooling him. "Van Cleef recognized your picture, Undertaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Undertaker?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ted smiled and shook his head. "I don't know anybody named Van Cleef."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon just looked at Glasses. Edward had time to turn his head so he took the blow on his shoulder. He moved a step, but didn't fall. Simon gave another look. Glasses hit his knee, and Edward collapsed onto one knee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We only need the girl up and running," Simon said. "So I'll ask you this just once, do you know Van Cleef?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood there, not sure what to do. We were so totally covered by the guns, and the priority had to be getting the children out. So no heroics until they were safe. If we died, I wasn't a hundred percent sure that Bernardo and Olaf would risk their lives to get them out. So I stood there and looked at Edward kneeling on the porch, waiting for him to give me some kind of sign what I was supposed to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked up at Simon. "Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, what, asshole?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I know Van Cleef."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon smiled broadly, obviously happy with himself. "Boys, this is the Undertaker, the man that still has the highest body count of anyone Van Cleef ever trained."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt, rather than saw, the two men twitch. The information not only made sense to them, but it scared them. It made them afraid of Edward. Who the hell was Van Cleef, and when had he trained Edward, and for what? I wanted to know the answers, but not badly enough to ask. Later, if we survived, I'd ask Edward. Maybe he'd even tell me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know you," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I came in just after you left," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Simon?" Edward made the name a question, and the big man seemed to understand what was being asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As in whatever the fuck Simon says, you damn well better do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How colorful, I thought, but didn't say out loud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can I get up now?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you can stand, then help yourself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward got to his feet. If it hurt, it didn't show. His face was empty, eyes like bits of pale blue ice. I'd seen him kill with that face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon's smile faltered around the edges. "You're supposed to be one mean son of a bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Van Cleef never said I was mean." He sounded very sure of that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon's smile disappeared altogether. "No, he didn't. He said you were dangerous."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What would Van Cleef say about you?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Same thing," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I doubt that," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at each other, and there was a weight and a testing like something nearly visible in the air between them. Muscle Man's nerve broke first. "Where the hell is Deuce with the wand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon blinked, and switched very cold brown eyes to the man behind me. "Shut up, Mickey."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey? It didn't have quite the ring to it that the other nicknames did. Of course, Simon hadn't sounded too tough until it was explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Van Cleef didn't recognize her picture."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No reason he should," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The newspapers call her the Executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what the vampires call her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do they call her that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you think?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon looked at me. "How many vampire kills you got, bitch?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If I had a chance tonight, I was going to teach Simon some manners, but not right now. "I don't know exactly."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about it. "I stopped keeping track around thirty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon laughed. "Hell, every man on this porch has more kills than that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More kills than thirty? Who the hell were these guys? I shrugged. "I didn't know it was a competition."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you count the human kills?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "He asked about vampire kills, not human."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Add those in," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was harder. "Eleven, twelve maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Forty-three," Simon said, "you got Mickey beat, but not Rooster." Apparently, Rooster was Glasses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Add in the shapeshifters," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had turned into a competition. I wasn't really sure that I wanted to seem as dangerous as I really was, but I trusted Edward's judgment. "Oh, hell, Edward, I don't know." I started counting in my head. Finally, I said, "Seven."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So fifty," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just hearing it out loud made me want to cringe. It sounded so Psychos'R'Us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've still got you beat, bitch," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was beginning to get on my nerves. "The fifty only counts the people I did personally with a weapon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean it doesn't count the ones you killed barehanded?" He smiled when he said it, like he didn't believe it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I counted those."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile got positively condescending. "Then what didn't you count, little bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Witches, necromancers, things like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not count them?" This from Mickey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Because using magic to kill is an automatic death sentence," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "I never said anything about magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We aren't friends," Simon said, "but you can be honest tonight, bitch. We won't tell the cops. Will we, boys?" He laughed and they laughed with him, with that same sort of nervous mirth that Itzpapalotl's vampires had had, like they were afraid not to laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Most of the fifty are sanctioned kills. The cops already know about them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You ever been on trial?" This from the until now silent Rooster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fifty legal kills," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give or take," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon looked at Edward. They had another one of those weighted staring contests.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would Van Cleef like her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but she wouldn't like him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's not big on orders and listening to people just because they've got an extra stripe on their shoulder."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not disciplined," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's disciplined. You just got to have more than rank to get her to listen to you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She listens to you," Simon said. "She didn't want to talk about her kills, but she took your lead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His saying that meant Simon was very observant, too observant for comfort actually. I'd underestimated him. Stupid of me. No, not stupid, careless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another man came up with the identical gun in his hands. He was just shy of six foot, but seemed smaller, delicate somehow. The hair was a deep brown, cut short, curly. The face was pretty in a girlish kind of way. His skin was that dark tan that isn't really tan at all. He had a set of small headphones around his neck, with wires connecting them to a metal box and a small flat ... wand attached with a cord to the box. It had to be Deuce and the wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know what it was, but Edward went very still. He knew what it was, and he didn't like it. Not a good sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where the fuck have you been?" Mickey said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mickey," Simon said, and he said 'Mickey' the way that Edward could say 'Olaf' and get perfect obedience. There was no more comment from the backup players. Simon looked at Deuce. "Do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce slipped the headphones on, hit a switch and some knobs on the box, and a light went on on the box. He got a distracted inward look on his face as if he were listening to things we couldn't hear. He started at Edward's hat and worked down, hesitated over the chest area, then continued the sweep. He knelt on the ground beside Edward and waved the wand up the backside of Edward. He was careful to stay out of the line of fire of all three guns. His own gun was on a sling that he pushed far behind his back, keeping it out of the way with a well-placed elbow as he moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stood, slipped the headphones off, and unplugged them from the box. "Listen to this." He waved the wand over Edward's chest. It beeped frantically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take off the shirt," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward didn't argue, He unbuttoned the shirt and handed it to Deuce, who waved the wand over it. The thing stayed silent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce waved the wand over Edward's chest again, and the wand beeped. He ran the wand over the shirt in his hand, no noise. Deuce shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The undershirt," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had to take his hat off. He handed it to me, then lifted the undershirt over his head. The Kevlar looked very artificial and white. He handed the undershirt to Deuce, and we went through the same routine again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take the vest off," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me one thing first," Edward asked. "Are the kids all right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why the fuck do you care about some bitch's kids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward just looked at him, but there was something in that look that made Simon take a step back. He noticed what he'd done and took the step back, pointing the gun very solidly at Edward's chest. "Take off the damn vest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's too hot for body armor anyway," Edward said. It seemed an odd thing to say for Edward man of few words, but you had to know Edward to know it was odd. I had the feeling that Edward had just put the word out for zero survivors. He undid the Velcro, slipped it over his head and handed it to Deuce.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stood there naked from the waist up. He looked fragile beside the musclebound Mickey or the very tall Simon, but they saw in him what I saw in him because unarmed and half-naked they were still scared of him. It was there in the way Simon reacted to him. The way the others, except Deuce, kept their distance. Deuce didn't seem to be working on the same instincts as the rest, though he never once crossed the fire line. He made Edward stretch out his hand, or he knelt under the direct line of fire. None of them were careless. It wasn't a good sign.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran the wand over the vest. When the wand beeped, he handed it to Simon. Then he ran the wand over Edward's bare chest. Silence. Good, because I think Simon would have said, "Skin," in the same voice he'd said, shirt, undershirt, vest. Just because Edward made him nervous didn't mean he wasn't scary all of his own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"In the body armor, that's good," Simon said. "Most people, even if they have you strip, don't check the armor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward just looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her next."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce duck-walked in front of us. Just in case someone started shooting, he was safe. No one shot anyone. Of course the night was young. He stood on the other side of me. He didn't bother to put the earphones back on, just ran the wand over me. It beeped. "Hand the hat back to him, please."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Please -- refreshing after hearing myself called bitch about a dozen times. "My pleasure," I said and handed Edward's hat back to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce had looked up when I spoke, as if he wasn't used to politeness in others either. The wand ran over me, and it beeped at chest level.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take the shirt off, bitch," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I untucked the shirt and started unbuttoning it. "My name's Anita, not bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like I give a fuck," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fine, I'd tried being nice. I handed the shirt to Deuce and his magic wand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It beeped, but when he ran it back over me, nothing. He laid the box gently on the ground, the wand on top of it, and started looking at the shirt. In less than a minute he'd found a small wire with a slightly thicker head sewn into the collar of the shirt. "Looks like a transmitter, maybe a homing beacon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon tossed the vest to Deuce. "Cut it open, find out what's inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce pulled a gravity knife from his back pocket, did one of those quick wrist movements that spilled the blade open. He went over the vest with his hands first, eyes closed, then he started cutting. It was a longer wire, with a little box attached. "It's a receiver. Someone out there is hearing everything we say."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Destroy the homer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce crushed mine under his heel. When it was a little metallic and plastic slimy place on the porch, he smiled up at us as if he'd done a good thing. Deuce was a few bricks shy of a load. Funny how many people that Edward introduced me to were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's out there, Undertaker?" Simon asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had put his hat back on. It looked funny with the shirt gone, but he seemed perfectly at ease. If he was nervous, you couldn't tell it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am going to ask you this, one more time nice, then it won't be so nice." He seemed to square his shoulders as if he were the one about to take a beating. "Who was on the other end of this wire? Who's out there?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rooster hit him in the back, and it must have been hard because it drove him to his knees. Something on the butt of the gun broke the skin in two small cuts. He stayed on all fours for a few seconds as if it had stunned him, then he got up, on his feet and faced Simon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Answer the question, Undertaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward shook his head, again. He was ready for the next blow. It staggered him, but he didn't go down. There was a third small cut. The cuts weren't anything, but they showed how much force was being used. He was going to be bruised all to hell come morning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe she knows," Mickey said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know who they are," I said, and the lie fell smoothly off my tongue. "Edward said we needed backup. He found some."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'd come into a situation like this with unknown people at your back? You don't seem that stupid," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward vouched for them," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And you trust him?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You trust him with your life?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon looked at me, then back to Edward. "She your squeeze?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward blinked, and I knew that was him trying to buy time to think what answer would be the least painful. "No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure I believe you, either of you, but if we start beating up the bitch, and she gets too hurt to do the spell, Riker'd be pissed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't you have Undertaker ask the backup to come in?" Deuce said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone Sort of froze, then looked at him, Simon said, "What did you say?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If they can hear us, why not have him ask them to come up, hands up, that sort of thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon nodded, then turned hack to Edward. "Tell them to come up to the house. Hands where we can see them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They won't come," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll come or we'll blow your fucking head off." Simon put the short-butted gun to his shoulder, and put the barrel against Edward's forehead. "Ask them to come into the house. Hands up. Throw their guns down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was funny how Simon had never once thought it might be the police out there, as if he didn't believe the Undertaker would bring the police to the party.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward stared down the barrel of that gun, looked past it, into Simon's eyes, and the look was his usual look. His eyes were cold and empty as winter skies. There was no fear. There was no anything. It was like he wasn't there at all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward may have been calm, but I wasn't. I'd seen enough bad men to know that Simon meant it. More than that, he wanted to do it. He'd feel safer if Edward were dead. I was out of ideas, but I couldn't just stand here and watch it happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell them, Undertaker, or I will blow your head all over this porch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Even if I asked, they wouldn't come."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon pressed the barrel in, so that Edward had to brace his feet against it to keep from being pushed backwards. "You better hope they come. We don't need you alive, just her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I need him alive," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon's eyes flicked to me, then settled back on Edward. "Lying bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you a witch, Simon?" I asked, though I knew the answer. I'd have spotted it if he had been a practitioner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the fuck does that matter?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you don't know what I need to do this spell, do you? Your boss would be pissed if you blew away someone I needed to keep him safe from the monsters."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why do you need him?" Deuce asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I swallowed and tried to think, nothing good was coming. I tried for truth. When I'm out of other options, it still works. "Riker said he wouldn't hurt the kids. He said he wouldn't hurt us. He said he just wanted me to save him from the monster. If you blow ... Ted's brains into the next county, then I'm not going to believe any of Riker's other promises. The second I think that Riker is going to kill the kids and us once I do the job, then I don't have any incentive to help him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon's eyes flicked to me again. "We can give you incentive." I didn't see him nod, but I felt Mickey moving behind me. I've never been good at taking a blow. I moved without thinking and he missed my shoulder, but I'd been right. He knew how to fight. I was turning towards him to do what, I'm not sure, when the butt of the gun caught me on the chin. I think I'd made him mad by ducking because he hit me hard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The next thing I knew I was on the ground, looking up. Deuce was kneeling by me, stroking my face. I had the impression he'd been petting me for awhile, as if I'd passed out. I didn't remember passing out. The sunglasses were gone. I didn't know if Deuce took them off, or if they flew off when my head went back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's awake," Deuce said, voice sort of dreamy. He gave me a gentle smile and kept stroking my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon knelt by me, blocking out the light. "What's your name?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, Anita Blake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How many fingers?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched his hand move back and forth, following it with my eyes. "Two."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you sit up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a good question. "With help, maybe."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce put his arm behind my back and lifted me. I let him take a lot of the weight, not because it was necessary, but because them thinking I was more hurt than I was might make them think I was less of a threat. We needed some sort of edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I rested against Deuce's shoulder. He was humming something tuneless under his breath, his hand cupping my face, stroking the skin, over and over. I was finally able to see everything. Edward was on his knees with his hands clasped on top of his cowboy hat. Rooster had a gun touching his head. Edward didn't look hurt. More like they'd done it to keep him from doing anything heroic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey had a bloody lip. He was carefully not making eye contact with anyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Can you stand?" Simon asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With help, yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deuce."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce helped me to my feet, and the world wavered. I clung to Deuce, hands digging in as the world tried to slide out my ear. Maybe I wasn't pretending to be hurt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit," Simon said. "Can you walk if Deuce helps you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to nod, and that made me nauseated. I had to breathe through it before I could answer him. "I think so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good. Let's go." He backed into the house, eyes watching the darkness beyond, though with all the lights his night vision was probably shit. Deuce and I went next. He had Edward's wire hung around his neck like a doctor's stethoscope. Edward was next, hands still firmly on top of his head. Rooster, then Mickey bringing up the rear. They staggered us so that if someone started shooting, there was room to maneuver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon started up a flight of stairs. I looked up the long flight and the world swam. Deuce called, "Simon, I'm not sure she's up to stairs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Mickey." The man in question moved up to the foot of the stairs. "Carry her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't want him touching me," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't ask you, either of you," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey gave his gun to Simon, then took my arm. He pulled me too fast and I was suddenly airborne on his shoulder, my head hanging down. I couldn't breathe. The world was spinning, and I was going to be sick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to throw up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dumped me unceremoniously back to my feet, and I fell. It was Simon who caught me, "Are you too hurt to do the spell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew the answer to that one -- no. Because if Riker thought I couldn't help him, he would kill us all. "I can do it if Mickey here doesn't dangle me over his shoulder with my head hanging down. I need to stay upright, or it's not going to get any better."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Carry her in your arms, not over your shoulders," Simon said. "All those muscles got to be good for something."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey picked me up in his arms like you'd carry a small child. He stood there like I weighed nothing. He was strong but carrying like this is harder than it looks. We'd see how he did if there was more than one floor to climb. Here's hoping he didn't drop me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put my arm around his shoulders. I'd have clasped hands around his neck to be more secure, but I couldn't reach around his deltoids without straining. "How much do you bench press?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three-ninety."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm impressed," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He preened a little. Mickey was dangerous, but if I could keep him from hitting me, he was the weak one. Rooster followed orders too well. Simon was Simon. Deuce seemed harmless, but there was something in those dreamy eyes that was a little scary. Maybe I was wrong, but I'd try Mickey before I tried Deuce, for trickery anyway. Arm wrestling, I'd take Deuce.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey walked up the stairs with me in his arms, effortlessly. I could feel the muscles in his legs pushing, working. Again, I had the sense of immense physical potential and quickness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's Mickey mean?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Simon explained his nickname, I'm just wanting to know what yours means."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce answered. "It's for Mickey Mouse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shut up, Deuce."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's got a tattoo of Mickey on his butt," Deuce said as if Mickey hadn't spoken.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey's face darkened, and he turned to glare at the other man. I just fought to keep my face blank. What kind of moron would have Mickey Mouse tattooed on his butt? But not out loud, not with those tree trunk arms wrapped around my tender body. If I hadn't had the marks on me, he'd have probably killed me with that one blow. No, I didn't want Mickey angry with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a landing, and a second flight of stairs. Mickey didn't even hesitate on the landing. He just went for the next set of stairs. His legs moved as easily up the second set as the first. He never paused to catch his breath. In fact, his breathing barely sped up. Whatever you could complain about Mickey, being out of shape wasn't part of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told him so. "How far you jog a day?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Five miles, every other day. How'd you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A lot of body builders would be having trouble by now. They neglect the aerobic stuff, but you move like some kind of well-oiled machine. You're not even breathing hard." There was something very intimate about being carried in someone's arms like this, a reminder of childhood and your parents' arms maybe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey's hands tightened on me; the one on my thigh began to massage my leg. I didn't tell him not to. It's been my experience that if a man is interested in having sex with you, they hesitate to kill you before they've had the sex. This rule is not always true, but more often than not. The trick is to get the man thinking more about sex than violence, so he's a little confused. We needed a little confusion among our enemies right now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were in a wide white hallway that ran the length of the top of the house. There were white doors with silver knobs. Nothing differentiated one door from the other. Simon went to the furthest door, and Mickey followed with me in tow. I could see Deuce following, and Edward just topping the last stairs with Rooster behind him, walking well back out of arm's or leg's length, These guys were good. I'd gotten to where I counted on the bad guys not being this good. Even if they were vampires and werewolves they'd be unprofessional. But I'd never been around professional bad guys that were this professional. It cut our options from bad to worse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Simon opened the door. We were here. We were still alive. The night still had possibilities.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_58" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36491136" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36491138" class="calibre7"></a>56 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MICKEY sat me down near the middle of a very nice Persian rug. He kept an arm around my shoulder, as if it had been his idea to carry me. I gave his arm a squeeze before I stepped away from him. Didn't want to be slutty, but wanted him hopeful in case it was useful. The room looked like the study of a prosperous academic. There were antique maps framed on the walls. Shelves lined almost every extra space of wall, a lot of books that looked well read and well used. There were books open on the big leather-topped desk with bookmarks in them and sticky notes covered in writing, as if we'd interrupted someone's research.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man sat behind the desk. He was a big man, both tall and wide. Not fat exactly but headed that way. He rose from his chair with a smile and walked towards us, hand outstretched. He moved with a confident, easy stride, like an ex-athlete going soft with normal living. His dark hair was cut very short and mostly bald on top. His hands were big, and the new weight showed in the hands where a college ring was beginning to cut into his flesh. He had calluses on his hands like he wasn't afraid to do the real work himself, but the calluses were losing that hard edge, softening, smoothing back into his skin. He'd probably done some of his dirty work once, but no more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gripped my hand with both of his, when one of his hands could have swallowed both of mine. "So glad you're here, Ms. Blake." He said it like I'd been invited instead of blackmailed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad one of us is glad I'm here," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile widened, and he let my hand go. "I am sorry for our little theatrics, Simon called up and he thought Mickey had broken your neck. So happy that he exaggerated."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not by much, Mr. Riker,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you feeling well enough to do the spell? We could have some tea first, let you rest."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I managed a smile. "I am grateful that we're being all civilized, and coffee would be great, but where are the children?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes flicked past me to Edward. He still had his hands clasped on top of his hat, but at least they hadn't made him kneel again. "Ah, yes, the children."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't like the way he said it, like it was going to be bad news.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where are they?" Edward asked, and Rooster hit him in the back with the gun again. It staggered him, and he had to wait for it to pass before he straightened up. His hands never left his head, as if he knew they were looking for an excuse to hurt him again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You promised us that they wouldn't be harmed," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were late," Riker said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't," I said, as Rooster raised his arm back for another blow. He did it anyway. Fuck. I turned back to Riker. "Every cruel thing you do helps convince me that you have no intention of any of us getting out of here alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I assure you, Ms. Blake, that I intend to let you go."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What about the others?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small shrug, and walked back behind his desk. "Unfortunately, my men think that Mr. Forrester is too dangerous to be allowed to live. I do regret that." He sat down at his nice swivel chair, elbows on the chair arms, thick fingers steepled. "But he will serve a useful purpose before he dies. If you are reluctant, we will take it out on Mr. Forrester. Since we intend to kill him anyway, we can do anything we want to him, and it doesn't really matter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My stomach was a hard knot, my pulse beating in my throat hard enough that I had to try twice to talk. "What about the kids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you really care?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm asking, aren't I?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached behind the desk and pressed something. The rear walls of the room slid open, revealing enough equipment to make NASA proud. There were four blank TV screens, but somehow I didn't think this was Riker's new Digital Television system.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the hell is all that for?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is not really your concern. I have signaled for additional men to be brought up. When they arrive, then I will show you the children."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why the additional men?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You'll see," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We didn't have long to wait. Four men came through the door. Two I recognized: Harold of the scarred face and Newt who I'd nearly made a soprano. Harold had a shotgun, and Newt his big nickel-plated .45. But it was the two men behind them that were the problem.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One was tall and planed down to nothing but muscle and dark, burnished skin. He didn't have Mickey's bulk, but he didn't need it. He entered the room surrounded by a cloud of his own violent potential. He set my lizard sense screaming, as if it knew here was someone to avoid. He had the same gun the other pros were carrying, but he'd added knives. At his forearms, his upper arms, both hips, and even hilts sticking up from behind his shoulders. It was very primitive somehow and very effective. If he'd walked into a cell, you might have dropped to your knees and begged for mercy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other one was just medium height, medium brown hair cut short, not too dark, not too light, not too anything. He had a face that you wouldn't remember two seconds after you saw it, because he was not handsome enough or ugly enough to stand out. He was one of the most unmemorable people I'd ever seen, and yet when his brown eyes swept over me, met mine for a second, I felt a jolt all the way down to my feet. One flash, and I knew that of the two men, he would kill you quicker.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had the same submachine gun the others had, but paired with what looked like a .10 mil automatic. I didn't recognize the brand. My hands aren't big enough for a .10 mil so I don't pay that much attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Simon, I want two men on both of our guests."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Make it four on him," Simon said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I bow to your expertise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rooster made Edward get on his knees. Simon made Mickey go to Edward. I guess he didn't want to risk the Muscle Man hitting me again. If they killed Edward early, they still had the kids to blackmail with. Simon sent the medium man to Edward, and Simon himself took up a post by Edward. They thought he was a very dangerous man, and they were right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The nausea had been fading, but all the preparations were making me nervous. I was afraid of what we were going to see. If they hadn't been afraid to show us, they wouldn't have had four men on Edward. I was left with Deuce and the knife guy. Harold and Newt stayed near the door. Harold seemed nervous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce touched my arm, tracing the mound of scar tissue at my elbow. "What did it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Vampire."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised his shirt up, and his stomach was a mass of white scars. "Mortar round."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wasn't sure what I was supposed to say. But I was saved from the decision because the knife guy grabbed my arm and turned me to look at Riker. He kept his hand on my arm, and since his hand completely encircled my upper arm, it wasn't going to be easy to get away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Show time," Riker said. He hit another switch, and two of the monitors flickered to life. Black and white film of cells. At first, all I saw was Russell's back in one room, and the Amazon Amanda's back in the other room. Then my eyes saw legs sticking out from around the woman. Legs in jeans and jogging shoes, ankles tied together. Too big for Becca. Had to be Peter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd stripped down to the waist, and that broad muscular back made everyone in this room look frail except for Mickey. It was only the length of her hair that made me guess her. She leaned forward, revealing more of Peter's body. She'd pulled his jeans and underwear down to his knees. She was playing with him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at the floor, then back up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tried to kiss him, and when he turned his head away, she slapped him twice hard, first one cheek then the other. There was already blood on his mouth, as if it wasn't the first time she'd hit him. She leaned back in for the kiss, revealing small tight breasts to the camera. She kissed him and this time he let her. Her hand never stopped working on his body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned slowly to look at the other monitor. Please, God, please, don't let Russell be doing the same thing to Becca. He wasn't, and I was grateful. He'd turned with her on his lap, as if he knew he had an audience to play to now. He cradled her like you'd hold any small child, but he'd pinned one small arm, and two of the fingers on the tiny hand were at a bad angle. He broke a third finger while we watched, and her mouth opened in a soundless scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shall we have sound?" Riker asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Becca was screaming high and piteous. Russell cradled her and murmured soothing things. He stroked her hair and looked directly at the camera. His nose was still packed and bandaged. He knew we were there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter's voice came high. He'd never sounded more like a little boy. "Please, don't. Please stop!" His arms were tied behind his back, but he was still struggling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She slapped him. "It'll feel good, I promise."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at Edward. Simon had the gun against his head. The hat was on the ground. The medium-looking man had conjured a knife from somewhere and had it pressed to Edward's throat. A trickle of blood slid down his skin. I met his eyes, and I knew that everyone in this room, everyone in this house was dead. They just didn't know it yet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward started to say something, but Simon said, "No, no talking from you or Shooter will slit your throat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The medium guy must be Shooter. The name didn't suit him. He looked more like a Tom, Dick, or Harry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They wouldn't let Edward talk, so it was my play, but we both knew where the game would end. Sudden death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Get them out of there, Riker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The children?" He gave a questioning lilt to his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Order them to leave the kids alone, now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And if I don't?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled. "Then the monster is going to come in here and gut you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes flinched. That bothered him. Good. "Knowing what is happening to them should speed up the spell of protection, I think."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you don't stop it, Riker, there won't be anything left to salvage."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I think the boy is enjoying himself, from the sound of things."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd been trying not to hear, but Peter's breath was coming faster and faster, frantic, but it wasn't the sound of pain. He screamed, "Don't, please don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked and I wished I hadn't. Some sights cut through your mind leaving a scar behind that never really heals. Watching Peter writhe caught between his first pleasure and the horror of it all, was one of those sights. I pride myself on never flinching. If someone is being tortured I don't look away. To look away only saves me pain, not them. If I can't save them the pain, then I watch as a kind of respect and as a punishment for myself, to remind me what happens to people when I fail them. But I failed Peter twice because I looked away just before a wordless scream tore form his mouth. It wasn't the sound of pain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned away, and maybe I moved too fast for the head injury, or maybe it was something else, because the room swam in streamers of color. I tried to go to my knees, and the knife man jerked my arm, kept me on my feet. Fine, I threw up on him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He jerked back, actually let go of my arm. I fell to my knees grateful to be low to the ground. Throwing up had brought a roaring headache. Riker's voice came through the next wave of nausea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Amanda, Russell, be so good as to leave the children alone. Our Ms. Blake is too squeamish to do her work while she fears for their safety."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked up at the monitors to make sure they actually left the rooms. Russell kissed Becca on the head, then left her huddled in the corner, crying for her mommy. Amanda blindfolded Peter while he begged her not to. She whispered something in his ear that caused him to curl into a ball. She left his pants down, picked up her shirt from the floor and walked out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I huddled into my own version of a ball on the floor. I stayed on my knees while I tried to decide whether I was going to throw up again or not. Nausea like this is usually a sign of a concussion. The headache was another. But I think sheer nerves had pushed me over the edge. I used to throw up at crime scenes quite a bit. Apparently, there were still things I couldn't handle, like child abuse. Dear God, please give us some help here. Help us get them out of here safe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a beeping, and Riker hit another button on his desk. "What is it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We've got two dead down here. They were fucking butchered."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Riker went pale. "The monster."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Knives, some kind of fucking big knife."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're sure of that?" Riker asked. "You are positive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It seems we have intruders." He looked at Simon. "What are you going to do about our company, Simon?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Kill them, sir."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shooter, Rooster, stay with him and kill him as soon as Riker gives the word. Mickey, you're with me." He looked across at the two men by me. "You stay with her. Make sure no one else hits her. Harold, Newt, come with me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then they were gone, and we were down to two bad guys a piece, and Riker. It would never get better than this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is there a bathroom?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you going to be ill again?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a thought."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The two of you take her. And Deuce, if you can come up with something creative that won't leave a mark or physically harm Ms. Blake in any way, but will convince her that the children and Mr. Forrester are not the only ones that can be hurt, do so. Perhaps you can show her your namesake. You've got thirty minutes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There aren't a lot of things you can do to a person that fulfilled Riker's requirements. The ones I could think of were mostly sexual. Usually, the talk of my impending rape upsets me, but all I could think of now was that I had thirty minutes with two men who might want to fuck me more than kill me. All I wanted to do was kill them. It made my options easier. But I said, "Is there a reason for torturing me, too, or is it just a hobby?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, pleasant, confident. "I thought you would be worthy of my men, but I find you weak, Ms. Blake. Weakness should be punished. But it must be done carefully, so you can still do the spell, because I do want that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't the line, these things must be done delicately or you injure the spell?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce laughed. Riker frowned at me. "It's from <em class="calibre9">The Wizard of Oz," </em>Deuce said. "The Wicked Witch of the West says it to Dorothy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take her away, Deuce," he wrinkled his nose, "and clean yourself up, Blade. You're welcome to help in the punishment, but Deuce is in charge. I don't want her damaged."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce grabbed my arm almost gently and helped me to my feet. The guy I'd thrown up on, Blade, followed us by a few steps. Evidently, he was taking no chances. At the door a man appeared. He was darkly Hispanic with longish hair, a shoulder holster, complete with 9 millimeter automatic. He looked like local hired muscle, but he wasn't. He vibrated with power. A shimmering energy flowed off of him. Psychic or maybe more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ms. Blake, meet our resident expert on the supernatural, Alario. He was in charge of the protection spells on all my establishments. His art failed him recently at one of my shops, and my workers are dead. You will succeed where he has failed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Alario watched me with cool dark eyes. His power flared over mine as Deuce led me past him. We recognized each other as powers, but there wasn't time for anything else, but there would be later. Which was what I was afraid of. Alario was the real deal, a practitioner of the arts. He'd figure out pretty quickly that I didn't know shit about spells of protection, at least not the kind Riker wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce led me down the white hall, with Blade: trailing us. We were out of time. I couldn't go back into that room and fake a spell. Olaf had failed to make his kills horrendous enough to fool the bad guys. The only good thing he'd done was divide their forces, and I had to take advantage of that while it lasted. Which meant that if at all possible only one person was coming back from the bathroom. Hopefully, it would be me.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_59" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36491581" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36491584" class="calibre7"></a>57 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">IT WAS ONE of those bathrooms with a double sink separate from the rest of the bathroom. Deuce led me into the little bathroom area, complete with shower. I managed to do some dry heaving, but that was the best I could do, and even that made my head ache. It hurt so much I closed my eyes trying to keep my brains from leaking out through them. If it wasn't a concussion, it was a hell of an imitation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce wet a washcloth and gave it to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thanks." I put it over my face and tried to think. So far, Deuce hadn't touched me. Blade was trying to clean up in the sink area, but he'd want the shower soon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I loved the look on Blade's face when you puked on him. It was priceless."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put the wash rag to the back of my neck. I was thinking furiously about what was in the purse and what options I had. But my voice was calm, point for me. "Blade? As in the comic book character?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Yeah, the vampire killer. They both carry knives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And they're both African American," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked into his face, wash cloth that he'd so kindly given me still on my neck. I tried to read behind those pleasant, slightly dreamy, brown eyes, but it was like trying to read Edward. I just couldn't read between the lines.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think that Blade actually used wooden knives and like a cross-bow in the comic books," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce shrugged. "You're either very brave, or you don't think I'll hurt you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you'll hurt me, if you want to."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then you're brave," he said. He was leaning against the wall, fingers playing lightly with the gun on its sling at his shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was my turn to shrug. "Yeah, but it's not really bravery that's keeping me calm."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked interested for the first time. "What is?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"After what I saw being done to Becca and Peter, I just can't get too excited about myself."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blade banged on the door. "We don't have all night, and I want a shower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce and I both jumped when he banged on the door. We shared one of those embarrassed smiles, then he opened the door and ushered me through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blade had tried to scrub at his clothes in the sink, but it hadn't helped. He tried to go through the door, and Deuce stepped in his way. "Riker won't like you taking a shower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He told me to get cleaned up."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Simon told us to keep two people on her. We can't do that if you're in the shower."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blade looked at me. "I think Simon overestimated her. Anyone that throws up after seeing mild torture like that, I'm not afraid of. Now get out of my way, Deuce."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce moved to one side, moving just ahead and to one side of him. Blade brushed past us without a word, his anger trailing behind him like a loose coat. He slammed the door behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went to the sink and re-wet the wash cloth. He was watching me in the mirror now. His eyes were still pleasant, but something else had crept in. Something that promised pain, the way the wind can bring the smell of rain against your skin just before it starts to pour.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started fishing in the purse. "I've got some breath stuff in here somewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I could lock you in the room with Blade. He strips real pretty, and he's not very happy with you right now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My hand closed on the pen with its hidden blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You really think he could control himself enough to just rape me and not do other damage? Like you said, he's not very happy with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You never asked about my nickname," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The conversation was moving too fast for me. "I assumed it was some kind of card-playing thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head while I watched him in the mirror. Then he started unzipping his pants. He was too far away to touch me, or for me to fight back. All I could do was wait for him to come to me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slipped inside his open fly and lifted himself out in a smooth practiced movement. He was huge, impressive even limp and soft. If I hadn't seen Bernardo earlier, I'd have been more impressed. Of course, you could never be a hundred percent sure how big a man got when he was erect. Some barely changed size. Some grew a lot. Maybe he'd been very impressive. Then I realized he had a tattoo on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to turn and look, rather than trust to the mirror. "Am I supposed to run screaming or ask to touch it?" I wasn't even scared. It was too bizarre.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Which do you want to do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I admit I was having a hard time looking at his face and not his penis because it was growing, and I could see the tattoo more clearly. "Can't rape the willing, hey?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, as if this approach had worked before with women. It was certainly something a girl didn't get offered everyday. "I won't tell, if you don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is that the two of hearts on your ... penis?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His smile widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Didn't that hurt?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not as much as it's going to," Deuce said. He moved slowly towards me, so I could get a good look. He had a flair for theatrics, did Deuce. I didn't want him using his flair or anything else on me. I turned and stumbled on purpose. He caught me, as he'd caught me all the other times. I put the pen against his chest, just under the sternum, angled upward. I was a vampire hunter. If there was one thing I knew how to do, it was to find the heart with the first blow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pressed the button the second I touched him. There was no upward movement, no feel of shoving the blade, because the blade did its own work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes went wide, mouth opened, but no sound came out. I twisted the blade left, then right, making sure he'd never draw breath to warn the man in the other room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce started to slide down the cabinets. I caught him and lowered him gently to the floor, glad he was one of the smaller men. I'd have had trouble wrestling Mickey's body around. The water was still running in the shower. Blade probably wouldn't have heard the sound of the body hitting the ground over the shower, but better safe than sorry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce lay there on the floor, the blade sticking out of his chest, his pants still unzipped, his namesake naked to the world. He looked very sad lying there dead. If I had time before I left, I'd zip him up, but first Blade. I got the gun off Deuce's shoulder and put the sling around my shoulder. I checked to make sure I knew where the safety was, and that it was off. The switch on the side had three settings, not just two like the Uzi. I put the setting on high. Logic said it would make the most bullets come out in the shortest space of time. I got Duece's extra clip for the sub-gun. A clip only holds twenty rounds. Normally, that sounded like a lot, but not tonight. There wasn't enough ammo in the world to make me feel safe tonight. I put the extra clips for both sub-guns and the hand guns in the purse and crossed the purse straps across my chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deuce's backup was a 9 mm Glock. Personally, I find Glocks awkward to shoot, though I know people that swear by them, once the learning curve was over at the firing range. But I was happy to see this one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The guns were great, but they would make a lot of noise. If I shot Blade, it would bring the rest of the bad guys down on me, and worse yet, they might kill Edward before coming after me. They had three hostages. They only needed one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I needed something quiet. Trouble was I didn't think I could take Blade with a blade. Hand to hand, forget it. That left me with the contents of the purse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled the blade out of Deuce's chest. Blood welled up darker than most, like heart blood is supposed to be. I cleaned the blade automatically on a sleeve of his shirt and slipped it into my front pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of his hands was lying against the cabinet doors far under the sink. Maybe I did have more than just what was in the purse. I moved his arm and looked. It's amazing how much lethal stuff people keep in their bathroom cabinets. Almost everything has hazardous warning labels, yelling poison, caustic agent, if accidental contact with eyes, flush with water immediately. But there was a pile of big, fluffy towels, and I had Deuce's handgun. Homemade silencer. But I was going to have to hold the gun at about waist level, close into my body, to keep the towels tight enough to act as a muffler. Holding the gun that way meant I'd want to get in close before I fired. If Blade were as good as the rest of them, he'd have his gun close. I'd only get one shot, and it had to count.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">How do you get that close to a well-armed man? Answer -- take off some clothes. I took off the T-shirt and the vest. It wouldn't stop a knife, and the idea was that he wouldn't get a shot off, right? Besides, I was trying for romance or at least lust. Kevlar just lacks that certain something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept the bra. My nerves weren't that good. Besides, if he demanded I take some clothes off, it left me something besides my pants. It was like playing strip poker. More clothes give you more to work with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shower went off. Shit. My time had just run out. My heart was suddenly in my throat. But I had to get in there, before he came out here. If he saw the body, it wasn't rape I had to worry about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tucked the gun down the front of my pants, towels clutched to mychest and stomach, and opened the door. I closed the door with me leaning against it. Blade looked up. His dark skin was beaded with water, and Deuce had been right. Blade stripped real pretty. Under other circumstances, it would have been a pleasure to see him. Now, I was so scared I was having trouble breathing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached for the gun that had been propped against the tub. His knife sheaths were draped across the back towel rack like you'd hang a wash rag, to keep them dry but handy. He stopped in mid-motion, fingers trailing on the gun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you want?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Deuce said to bring you towels." I let the fear slide into my voice, making it breathy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How'd he get you to strip down?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked down, an embarrassed head bob. "He gave me a choice of him or you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blade laughed, and it was a purely masculine sound. "He show his deuce?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. I didn't have to pretend to be embarrassed. I just didn't try and hide it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Take off the bra." He straightened up, hand going further away from the big gun, but still too close to the knives and his handgun on the towel rack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slid out of the straps, and pressed the towels to my chest, reached back and undid the snaps. I lifted the towels away from my body just enough to pull the bra out and let it fall to the floor. I kept the towels tight against me, for modesty's sake, and to hide the gun in my waistband.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stepped out of the tub and started to take those three steps that would close the distance. I turned my body, sort of sideways, getting the gun out, still held behind the towels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was right in front of me, three steps away from all his weapons. He curled his fingers over the top of the towel and pushed them lower, exposing my breasts an inch at a time. He was less than ten inches away from me. His hand stroked the upper mound of my breast, and I fired. His body jerked, and I think he said, "Fuck." I kept pulling the trigger until he collapsed to his knees, eyes rolled back. His stomach and lower chest were a red ruin. The towels were shredded, and covered in black powder stains. The shots had been muffled, but not silenced. I waited there in the small room, the shots seeming to echo in the walls. I waited for cries of alarm. Nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I picked up my bra, but didn't take time to put it on, before I opened the connecting door and listened. Silence. Great. I got dressed and took all the weapons. Blade's handgun was a Heckler and Koch. Nice gun. I tucked it in the front of my pants where the Firestar would have normally gone. I put both the big guns over the same shoulder, and the knife sheaths I draped over the other shoulder. I brought the sub-gun around, clicked the safety off, and I was as ready as I was going to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The last time I'd seen Edward, he'd been on his knees. His two guards had been standing. If I was careful and the gun didn't kick too much, I could take them out over Edward's head. My plan was to spray the room. As plans went, it was crude, and secrecy would be very lost if we were within hearing of anyone, but once I knew the noise wasn't going to get Edward killed, I didn't care as much. They'd have killed Edward because he was a threat, and they'd want to take out the threat at their back before turning to face a new threat. The kids weren't a threat. If Riker was dead and couldn't give the order to hurt them, then they'd be okay until we reached them. That was the theory, and it was the best one I had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bristling with weapons, I listened at the outer door. Nothing. I opened it just a little. The hallway was empty. Better. I locked the door behind me so that when I shut it, people might assume it was occupied by more than dead people. The knives moved too much slung over my shoulder, so I set them down in a pile against the wall, being as quiet as I could. The corridor that had seemed so long, now seemed short because this was one of those plans that was either going to work really well or be a total disaster. In less than two minutes, I'd be at the door, and we'd see.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_60" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36491923" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36491925" class="calibre7"></a>58 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE GUN HAD a short stock, but I braced it against my shoulder, and my arms were short enough that it was probably easier for me than the men I took them off. I was only steps from the open study door. Voices came out into the hallway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean that Antonio and Bandit are missing?" That was Riker. "I thought your men were good, Simon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Shit. Was Simon back in the room? It didn't matter. It didn't change the plan. But I'd have preferred that Simon be elsewhere, at least until Edward was safe and armed. But Simon's voice came tinny and staticy. It was the intercom system. Shit, I didn't want them to hear the shots. The best I could do was wait until I didn't hear him using it. The longer I lurked in the hallway, the less chance the plan had. Someone was going to come up the stairs or out of the room or out of the study. If I lost surprise, it was over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was scared, really scared, not about killing or being killed, but about accidentally shooting Edward. I had an unfamiliar submachine gun in my hands. I'd never even seen one like this used. If you aim too high with a machine gun, more the full machine guns, but the subs, too, you can actually miss. If I fired into that room and missed everyone, I guess I deserved to get shot. I took the last deep breach and eased around the door frame. I know people always stand in the middle of the freaking door in the movies, but that's a good way to get killed. Use cover when you have it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had a split second to see the room. Rooster and Shooter had Edward covered, still on his knees. Alario the Witch had moved beside Riker's desk. I started firing almost before I'd finished looking. The sound was enormous, but the gun had almost no recoil. I had to adjust my aim because I'd been expecting to have to fight the gun, but it was smooth, for a sub gun. Shooter actually got a burst off, but it was angled wrong and took out the ceiling above me. Rooster turned, but that was it. Seconds for both of them to go down, seconds to move the gun in a continuous spray that took out the control panels and monitors, and Riker, sitting behind his desk. Alario was the furthest away, and he had time to dive to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went for the floor, too, hitting on my stomach as I aimed for him. I was angled away from Edward. I didn't have to be careful. I kept the trigger down and hit Alario before he could get a shot off. His body danced with the slap of bullets. There was something fascinating about the way the bullets shredded him, or maybe I just couldn't let go of the trigger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught movement out of the corner of my eye and rolled on one shoulder, gun pointed. I let off the trigger just in time. Edward was kneeling with a gun in his hand by the bodies of his guards. He had a hand out as if to ward off the bullets, as if he hadn't been sure I'd remember in time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stayed that way for a frozen second, me on my side, the sub-gun pointed at him, finger still on the trigger, but not pressing down. Him with his hand out, the automatic pistol in his hand but pointed down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His mouth moved, but I couldn't hear him. Part shock, adrenaline, and part firing a submachine gun without ear protection in a closed room. I eased to a kneeling position and stopped pointing the gun at him. He seemed to realize I was having trouble hearing because he held up two fingers and did thumbs down. Rooster and Shooter were dead. Hurrah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I knew Alario was dead. I'd gone way overboard on him. I looked across the room at Riker. He was sitting in his chair, mouth gaping open and closed like a landed fish. The front of his nice white shirt and suit jacket were stained red in a row across the entire front of his body, including his arms. He was sitting so that I could see his hands clearly. I don't know if the force of the shots had pushed the wheeled chair back or he'd started that way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pointed at Riker, and I heard one word of the sentence, "Guard." He wanted me to guard Riker, not kill him. Of course, we needed to know where the children were being held. I hoped he didn't die before he told us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My hearing came back in stages. I could hear Riker saying, "Please, don't." It was what Peter had been saying on the monitor. It pleased me that Riker was begging. Edward came back from checking the hallway. He had one of the sub-guns in his hands. He'd closed the door so that if we had company, we'd get a little warning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">By the time he started asking Riker questions, I could hear, but there was a ringing echo in my head that didn't seem to want to go away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me where to find Peter and Becca?" Edward said. He was leaning on the back of Riker's chair, face very close to his.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Riker rolled his eyes to look at him. There was bloody foam at his lips. I'd pierced at least one lung. If it had been both, he was dying. If only one, then maybe he could survive if he got to the hospital soon enough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please," he managed to say again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell me where the children are being kept, and I'll let Anita call an ambulance."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Promise?" he said, in a voice thick with things that should never be in a throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I promise, just like you promised me," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Either Riker didn't get the double entendre, or he didn't want to. People will believe a lot of things when they're afraid they're dying. He believed we'd call an ambulance because he gave directions in that thick wet voice. He told us where they were being held.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Call now," Riker said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward put his face almost next to Riker's. "You want to be safe from the monster?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Riker swallowed, coughed blood, and nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll keep you safe from the monster. I'll keep you safe from everything." And he shot Riker in the head with the Beretta .9 mil he'd reclaimed from Rooster's body. My guns were still on Mickey somewhere out there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward felt for Riker's pulse and didn't find it. He looked at me across the man's body. I'd always thought Edward killed with coldness, but his baby blues held a fine, heated rage, like a forest fire barely under control. He was still in control of himself, but for the first time I wondered if there would come a point tonight where he'd lose it. You can only stay cool and collected when things don't matter. And Peter and Becca mattered to Edward. They mattered more than I'd have ever thought anyone would matter to him. Them and Donna, his family.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He told me to reload the sub gun. I did what he asked. If Edward said I'd nearly emptied an entire clip in just a few seconds, I believed him. I added the extra clip from the dead man to the purse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward went for the door, and I followed him. I'd thought that nothing could be scarier than Edward at his most cold. I was wrong. Edward the family man was downright terrifying.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_61" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36492085" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36492087" class="calibre7"></a>59 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">HOURS LATER, THOUGH my watch said thirty minutes, I was plastered to a wall, crouched as low as I could get, trying not to get shot. I knew that I originally started out to rescue the kids, and I still planned to do that, but my immediate plan was just to avoid catching a bullet. That had been the plan for about five minutes. I'd heard the expression a hail of bullets, but I'd really never understood what it meant. It was as if the very air had turned into a moving, spattering thing, where tiny fast-moving objects peppered the air around you, bit into the solid rock wall beyond and left holes. There were two submachine guns down the hall, pinning us in cross fire. I'd never been shot at by fully automatic machine guns before. I was so impressed, I hadn't done anything in the last five minutes except hug the wall, and keep my head down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The secret panel had been exactly where Riker said it would be. Edward had killed the guard on the other side with a knife, quick, efficient. We'd killed two more men before Simon and his crew, or what was left of it, found us and started fighting back. I'd thought I was good at killing people. I'd thought I was good in a gunfight. I was wrong. If what was happening to me now was a gunfight, then I'd never been in one before. I'd shot people and been shot, but that had been one on one with semi-auto pistols. The bullets whined by me in a near constant stream of noise and percussion. I was so <em class="calibre9">not </em>putting my face out there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was pure luck that I hadn't been shot before we got this far. The only thing I'd been doing right that had helped my chances was using every freaking bit of cover offered. The one comfort to my new-found cowardice was that Edward was crouched with me, though he kept peeking around the corner and firing short bursts at the shooters that had us pinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached around me, firing. I could feel the vibration of the gun against my body, the tremble of his arms as he held it. He darted back behind the wall, and a fresh burst of bullets thundered down at us. Edward held his hand out and I handed him another clip from the purse. I felt like a surgical nurse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I leaned close to Edward's ear and whisper-screamed, "You want the vest? I'm not using it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've got a vest on." Deuce had kindly left Edward's vest in the study.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You could put mine on your head," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He actually smiled at me as if I'd been joking. He motioned for me to scoot over, an acknowledgment from both of us that I wasn't doing much. He took up my post at the corner of the wall, and I flattened my back where he'd been. He went to his belly, firing around the corner. It only took seconds for him to peek around the corner, fire and come back, but while he was staring down the corridor I saw the tiniest corner of a head peek round the bend of the stairs just above us. The head ducked back out of sight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to touch Edward, to let him know we had company, when something came sailing through the air. Something small and roundish. I don't remember thinking about it. I was just on my knees, letting the sub-gun dangle. I caught the object in my hands and threw it back up the stairs, before my brain even had time to form the word grenade. I threw myself back to the floor, touching Edward's leg, and then there was an explosion. The world shuddered, and the stairway collapsed in a shower of rock and dust. Rock rained down on my arms where I'd curled them over my head. I thought that if the bad guys came running down the hall now, I wouldn't be much help, which made me raise my head enough to see the corner and Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had his head covered by one arm, but was looking round the corner, gun in one hand. Of course, nothing would make Edward forget the bad guys, certainly not a little thing like an explosion and the ceiling about to come down on us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The silence came gradually full of creaks and groans from the stones around us. The dust lay like a thin mist in the air. I started to cough, and Edward's hand was just suddenly on my mouth. How had he known? He gave a small shake of his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got the idea that he wanted me to be quiet, but I didn't know why. Of course, I didn't need to know.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We lay quiet, and the silence seemed to build. Finally, I heard the first scrape of a footstep coming down the hall. I tensed, and Edward's hand pressed on my shoulder. Easy, he was saying, easy. I swallowed as quietly as I could and tried to relax. Quiet I could do. Relaxed was not happening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The movements were stealthy, very quiet. Someone was creeping down the hallway towards us. Wondering if we'd gotten blown up. We were pretending that we had, but once the man got down here, the jig would be up. We could kill him, but there was another man at the end of the hall. If he didn't run out of ammo, he could hold the hall against us. He didn't want to come to us, and we needed to go down that hall. Becca and Peter were in cells in the hall. The bad guys had the upper hand because we needed to move forward, and all they needed to do was hold position.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, one of them was coming to us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward pantomimed for me to go forward and lie down. I knew he wanted me to play dead, but that far out from the wall was kill zone. If they started firing, even flat on the ground, I might be hit. But ... I crawled forward through the debris, being very, very careful not to scrape any weapons or the purse against the floor or make the rocks roll. I was further out than I wanted to be when I looked back, and Edward gave one nod. I lay down on the floor, quietly. I lay face down because my acting abilities aren't up to playing dead, My hair flung across my face and I left it there, the better to peek through. I kept the sub-gun in my hand, but Edward shook his head. I let the gun go, moved my hand minutely away from it, and played dead. If Edward were wrong, I wouldn't be playing for long. I'd never get to the gun in time. Once the man cleared the corner, it was over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I lay there and strained to hear movement. Mostly, what I heard was the thudding of my heart. Whoever it was, was being even quieter than before. Maybe he'd chickened out. Maybe he wasn't coming at all, and they'd start shooting again. I had to fight to keep still, not to move, not to breathe too much. I willed myself to relax into the floor, and I'd almost succeeded when I caught movement in the hallway. I was far enough out from Edward that I had a better view at the end of the hall. Would he see the shine of my eyes through my hair? I took in a deep breath, closed my eyes, and held it. Either Edward would kill him, or he'd kill me. I trusted Edward. I trusted Edward. I trusted Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Noises, soft, slithering noises, the brush of cloth. Then a sharp exhale of breath. Nothing you'd hear from the other end of the hallway. Silence so thick it was frightening, but if Edward hadn't won, there would have been gunfire. I opened my eyes a slit, then wider, because Edward was kneeling over Mickey's body, searching it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I must not have been the only one who thought the silence was a long one because a man's voice sounded, "Mickey, you okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward answered, and it didn't sound like his voice. It wasn't a perfect imitation but it was good. "All clear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's the roger?" the man asked. I didn't recognize the voice. One of Simon's men we had yet to meet face to face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked at me and shook his head. I didn't know what a roger was, but apparently, we couldn't fake it, though Edward tried. "Get the fuck down here and help me search the bodies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The answer to that was gunfire. I was already as low as I could get to the ground, but I tried to get lower. The bullets sprayed over me into the wall beyond, and the only thing that kept me from screaming was pride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward gave one abrupt motion. I thought I knew what he wanted. When the shots ended, I belly crawled back towards the wall. I was actually almost there when he fired again. I froze in place, face to the ground. The firing ended, and I put my back to the wall on the other side of Mickey's body from Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mickey was still carrying my guns. I took them back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward had a canister in his hand that looked suspiciously like the incendiary grenade they'd put in my purse, minus the camouflaging hairspray can. My eyes widened. He shook his head, as if reading my mind, and mouthed, "Smoke."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Okay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned over the body, and I leaned into him. He whispered, "Cover me while I throw it. Belly crawl down the hall. When you see anyone through the smoke, shoot them." Then he leaned back, pulled the pin on the smoke grenade, and stood with the wall still hiding him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I crawled to him, hugging the wall and his legs, sub-gun clutched tight. My heart was inside my head, pounding away. I had time to think, "Gee, the headache's gone," then Edward said, softly, "Now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I peeked around the corner, my finger on the trigger, spraying down the hallway. Edward threw the smoke grenade. He jerked back around the corner, and so did I. Thick white smoke filled the hallway. I dropped to my belly, behind the wall, waiting for the smoke to find me. Edward motioned that he'd take the other side, but he pointed forward for me. He combat crawled and was almost immediately lost to the thick smoke. The smoke was bitter, like burning cotton soaked in something bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I crawled with the wall on my left, the sub-gun held out in front of me. I had two guns shoved down the front of my jeans now, and it wasn't comfortable for crawling, but nothing could have persuaded me to stop and adjust them. The purse stayed solid against my back like a bulky backpack. The world had narrowed down to soft rolling smoke, the feel of the floor under my arms and legs, the brush of the wall against my left elbow when I moved too close to it. There was nothing but me moving down the hall, eyes trying to see anything in the white mass of clouds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing moved but me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then bullets ripped through the smoke, and I was close enough to see the flash of the gun through the smoke. I was almost on top of him, and he was firing chest high into the smoke. I was about ankle high and looking up at him. I could actually see him like a shadowy figure above me when I pressed the trigger and watched that shadow jerk. I rolled onto my side to sweep my fire line up his body, still afraid to stand or even kneel until I knew he wasn't firing back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He collapsed to his knees, face suddenly looming out of the smoke. I fired nearly point blank into his chest, and he fell backwards half vanishing in the fading smoke, like he'd fallen into clouds. I stayed low and realized I could see his feet. The smoke was almost gone at floor level, which was one of many reasons that Edward had had us crawl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's me," Edward said, before he crawled out of the smoke. He was wise to have warned me. My finger was still on the trigger, and I was beginning to appreciate how you could accidentally shoot your friends in a combat situation, unless you were very careful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved a little way, and the smoke was thinning enough that I could see him check the man's pulse. "Stay here," and he was gone into the dying smoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It pissed me off, but I stayed on the floor by the man I'd killed and waited. I might have been pissed off, but we were in a kind of fighting that I knew almost nothing about. I'd somehow fallen into Edward's other life, and he was better at surviving here than I was. I was going to do what I was told. It was pretty much my only hope for getting out alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward came back, walking instead of crawling. Probably a good sign. "The area's clear, but it won't be for long." He held the keys we'd taken from Riker. "Let's do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He unlocked the cell that was supposed to be Peter's and went across the hall to Becca's before he did more than push the door open. I guess I was getting Peter. I dropped to one knee and pushed the door open until it was flat against the wall. See, no one hiding behind it. If there had been someone in the room, they'd have probably shot over my head. Kneeling, I was a lot shorter than most people. But a glance showed the room was empty except for the narrow bed with Peter on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood, debated for a second whether to shut the door and risk someone locking it behind me, or leave it open and risk someone coming up behind me with a gun. I left it open, not because it was the best option, but because I just didn't want the door shut on me in the cell. Part claustrophobia, part just having been locked in too many places waiting for things to eat me. Sometimes I think that last part contributes to the claustrophobia.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had been bad on the black and white monitor, but it was worse in person. Peter was curled into the tightest ball he could manage. His hands tied behind his back, tied ankles tucked up tight to his bare butt. His clothes were still bunched around his knees, and the expanse of pale flesh looked incredibly vulnerable. She'd meant to humiliate him, leaving him like this. The blindfold was still in place, cutting a bright patch of color across his dark hair. His mouth was stained with drying blood, his lower lip already swollen, bruises beginning to spread across his face like ugly lipstick from an overzealous kiss.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't try to be quiet. I tried to hurry. He heard me coming because he started talking through the gag. I could understand him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please, don't, please don't." He kept saying it over and over in a progressively more frantic voice until his voice broke, not from adolescence, but from fear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's me, Peter," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't seem to hear me, just kept begging over and over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I touched his shoulder, and he screamed. "Peter, it's Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I think he stopped breathing for a heart beat, then he said, "Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, I'm here to get you out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He started to cry, thin shoulders shaking. I drew one of Blade's blades and fitted it carefully between his wrists, jerking upward. The cord sliced clean under the sharp, sharp blade. I tried to lift the blindfold off of him, but it was too tight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to have to cut the blindfold off, Peter. Don't move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His breathing slowed, and he held still while I slid the blade between the cloth and the side of his head. It was harder to cut than the rope because it was tighter to his skin and just a bad angle. But the blade finally sliced through it, and the cloth fell away. I had an impression of red marks in his skin where the blindfold had marked him. Then he flung himself on me, hugging me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I hugged him back, knife in one hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He whispered, "She said she was going to cut it off when she came back." He didn't start crying again. He just held on. I rubbed his back with my free hand. I wanted to give him comfort, but we had to get out of here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She won't hurt you anymore, Peter. I promise that, but we've got to get out of here." I pulled back from his desperate arms until I could see his face and he could see mine. I held his face in my hands, the knife carefully pointed up. I looked into his eyes. They were wide and shocky, but there wasn't much I could do about it now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Peter, we have to go. Ted's getting Becca, and we're leaving."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe it was his sister's name, but he blinked and gave a small nod. "I'm okay," he said, which was the best lie I'd heard all night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I accepted it and said, "Good." I had to stand to reach the ropes at his ankles. He was just that tall or I was that short. The hug had put him facing forward, and he seemed suddenly aware that he was exposed. He started grabbing at his underwear and pants while I tried to cut his ankles free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to pull the knife back. "If you don't hold still, you're going to end up cut."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want my clothes on," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood at the foot of the bed, and said, "Get dressed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't look," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not looking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're looking at me," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But I'm not <em class="calibre9">looking </em>at you." But I couldn't explain it to him, so I turned and looked at the door while he struggled into his pants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can look now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He had everything zipped and buttoned, and just that had taken some of the raw terror out of his eyes. I cut his ankles free, sheathed the knife, and helped him to his feet. He jerked away from me, then almost fell because the ankles had been tied too tight for too long, and he didn't have all the feeling back. Only my hand on his arm kept him upright.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need to walk a little with help before you can run," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He let me help him to the door, but he wouldn't look at me. His first reaction had been that of a child, grateful to be saved, wanting to hold on to someone, but his second reaction was older. He was embarrassed now. Embarrassed at what had happened, and probably at me seeing him nearly naked. He was fourteen, a trembling age between child and adult. Somehow, I think he'd been younger when he went into the cell than when he came out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward met us in the hallway with Becca held in his arms. She looked pale and sick. Bruises had already started blooming on her face. But it was her hand that made me want to cry. That tiny hand that I'd held only days ago, while Edward and I swung her in the air. Three of the fingers looked crippled, at unnatural angles. They were swelling, the skin discolored. It was early for that, which meant they were bad breaks and wouldn't heal easily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She said, "Anita, you came to save me, too." Her voice was high and thin. It made my throat tight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, sweetie, I came to save you, too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter and Edward stood staring at each other. It was Edward that reached out first, just his hand, because the arm was underneath Becca's legs. Peter took that hand and hugged them both. His fingers hovered over Becca's hand, and fresh tears fell down his face, but there was no sobbing now, just tears so quiet you wouldn't have known he was crying if you hadn't seen them. "She'll be all right," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter looked up at him, as if he wasn't sure he believed, but he wanted to. But he stepped away from them, rubbed the tears from his face with his hands. "Can I have a gun?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to say, no, but Edward spoke first. "Give him your Firestar, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're kidding," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen him shoot. He can handle it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd been following Edward's orders for a while. He was usually right but ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If we go down, I want him armed." Edward looked at me, and the weight in his eyes was enough. He didn't want Peter and Becca taken again. If he put a gun in Peter's hand, they'd kill him not torture him. If the worst happened, Edward had decided how the boy would go out. And, God help me, I agreed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled the gun out of the band of my jeans. "Why the Firestar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Smallest grip."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I handed it to Peter, feeling vaguely like a child molester myself, or maybe a corrupter. "It holds nine if you carry one in the chamber. It's only holding eight. Safety's here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took the gun and popped the clip out to check it, then looked vaguely embarrassed. "Ted says to always check if something's loaded." He popped the clip back in, put a round in the chamber so it was ready to fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Try not to shoot any of us," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He clicked the safety on. "I won't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Looking into his eyes, I believed him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want to go home," Becca said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going home, honey," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward led the way around the corner still carrying Becca. Peter went next, and I brought up the rear. I didn't burst anyone's bubble, but I knew we were a long way from safe. We had Simon and the rest of his men to get through, not to mention Harold and Newt and the local guys. Where were Russell and Amanda? I was really hoping to see them before we left. I'd promised Peter that she would never hurt him again. I always keep my promises.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_62" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36492557" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36492559" class="calibre7"></a>60 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THE HALLWAY SPILLED OUT into a large open space. Edward stopped, and Peter and I did, too. Becca was still being carried, so she didn't have much choice. I kept an eye on our back trail and waited for Edward to decide what to do. I couldn't see how big the open space was, so I figured it was big enough for Edward to worry about us being out in that much open. He finally moved slowly forward, hugging the left-hand wall. When I could see the room clearly, I realized why he'd hesitated. It wasn't just this huge open space. There were three tunnels leading off to the right, dark mouths where anything might lurk, like Simon and the rest of his men. But there was a fourth opening with stairs leading up. Up was what we needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I walked with my back to the solid wall behind me, trying to keep an eye on the hall we'd come out of and the three tunnels to the right. I left the stairs to Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stairway was narrow, barely broad enough for two slender people to walk abreast. It wound upward and had a sharp angle at the top, a blind corner. I kept watching behind us, because I knew that if shooters came up behind us, and in front of us at the same time, we were dead. It was a perfect place for an ambush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter seemed to feel the tension because he moved closer to Edward, almost touching him as they moved up the stairs. We were about three fourths of the way up to that first blind corner, when Edward hesitated, staring down at the steps. Peter took one extra step. Edward hit him with his shoulder, knocking him back. He dropped Becca to the steps, still holding her good arm, trying to save her from the full fall. I think if he'd just dropped Becca, he might have gotten them all out of harm's way, but that last effort cost him the second he needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw a blur of movement, and there was a wooden stake sticking out of Edward's back. I started to go to him, but he said, "Up the stairs, now. Shoot them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't ask questions. I went up the last few steps as fast as I could go and threw myself around the corner on my side, and was shooting down the hallway before I saw what I was shooting at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Harold, Russell, Newt, and Amanda were running down another level of stairs. I fired up into them, fighting the angle to make the spray pattern hit them. The three men went down, but Amanda turned and darted back around the corner they'd come from. I made sure the men weren't getting up, firing into their down bodies, then I got to my feet and ran up the stairs after her. I crouched at the corner, but the stairs were empty. Fuck. I didn't dare pursue her and leave the kids and Edward alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went back down the steps and slipped on blood so that I ended up sitting down hard on the steps, my elbow hit Harold's body, and the body grunted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I put the barrel of the gun against his chest as his eyes fluttered open. "Didn't make the ambush site in time. Simon's going to be pissed," he said, and the tone of his voice said he was hurting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you have to worry about Simon anymore, Harold. You're not going to be around to answer to him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Never approved of hurting kids," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you didn't stop it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a breath and that seemed to hurt, too. "Simon called someone on the radio. Said he'd failed. Said they needed to clean up the mess. I think they're coming to kill us all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who's coming?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his mouth, and I think he'd have told me, but his breath ran out in a long sigh. I felt for the pulse in his neck, but it wasn't there. I'd known he was dead, but still you check. I checked Russell and Newt just to be sure, but they were dead. I actually left everyone's guns because I just couldn't carry anymore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard voices as I neared the bend that would take me back to Edward. Fuck. Then I recognized one of the voices. It was Olaf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I came around the corner and found Olaf and Bernardo kneeling by Edward. Peter was sitting on the steps holding Becca. She was crying. He wasn't. He was staring at Edward, face white with shock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo spotted me first. "Are they dead?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Russell, Newt, and Harold. Amanda got away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter's eyes flicked to me, and they were huge and dark in his pale, pale face. The bruised mouth stood out against his skin like it was makeup, too bright to be real.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward made a small sound, and Peter turned back to him. "I'm sorry, Ted," he said. "I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's all right, Pete. Just next time follow my lead better." His voice was strained, but Peter seemed to take heart from talk of a next time. I wasn't so sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf and Bernardo had turned him so that you could see the sharpened end of the stake that had pierced his chest. It was upper chest, close to the left shoulder. It had missed the heart or he'd be dead, but it could have pierced the sack around the heart, and blood could be spilling into that sack as we watched. Or it could have missed it entirely. It was high enough up that it had probably missed the lungs. Probably.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How'd you know that they were coming?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Heard them," and his voice reminded me of Harold's, pain stressed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly cold, and it wasn't the temperature. I started to kneel by them all, but Edward said, "Watch our backs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So I stood up, put my back to the wall, and let my peripheral vision try to keep track of both up and down the stairs. But my eyes kept going back to him. Was he dying? Please, God, not like this. It wasn't just Edward. It was the look on Peter's face. If Edward died, Peter would blame himself. The boy was having a bad enough night. That kind of guilt he did not need.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give me your T-shirt," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We need to pack the wound and keep the stake from moving around. We can't remove it here. It's too close to his heart. He will need a hospital."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I agreed with that. "Someone else watch for bad guys while I undress."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo stood up and took my place at the wall. I noticed there was a blade sticking out of his cast like a spearhead. The blade was stained black with blood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled off my T-shirt and handed it to Olaf. He'd already stripped down to his black Kevlar vest, shoving his own shirt around the wound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you need mine?" Peter asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter moved Becca forward on his lap and took off his shirt. His upper body was thin and pale. He was tall, but the rest of him hadn't caught up. Olaf used pieces of Bernardo's shirt to hold the makeshift bandage in place. The wound looked terrible, but it wasn't bleeding much. I didn't know if that was a good sign or a bad one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We caught the other half of your ambush on its way to the stairs," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wondered why there weren't more," I said. I remembered what Harold had said. "Before Harold died, he said that Simon called someone. Told them he'd failed and they needed to clean up the mess. Does that mean what I think it means?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward looked up at me, as Olaf used more shirt strips to bind his left arm tight, so he wouldn't move it and risk jarring the stake into something vital. "They'll kill everything they find." His voice was almost normal, only slightly breathy, a touch tight. "They'll burn the place to ash. Maybe they even salt the earth." I think that last was the wound talking, but you never know with Edward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf lifted Edward to his feet, but the height difference was too much. Edward couldn't keep his arm over the big man's shoulders. "Bernardo will have to help you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, Anita can do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf opened his mouth to argue, I think, but Edward said, "Bernardo only has one good arm. He needs that to shoot."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf closed his mouth into a tight line, but he handed Edward over to me. Edward's arm went around my shoulders. I put my left arm around his waist. We tried a couple of steps, and it worked okay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf led the way. I came next with Edward, then Peter, carrying Becca wrapped around his body like a sad little monkey. Bernardo brought up the rear. Olaf looked at the bodies of the dead men as he passed. He spoke without looking back at me. "You did this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." I'd have usually come up with something sarcastic like, "you see anyone else?" but I was too worried about Edward to waste the effort. Sweat had popped out on his face, as if it was taking a lot to keep going. Trouble was, a fireman's carry would disturb the stake, and if any of us could carry him just in his arms, it was Olaf, but it would mean not being able to shoot. We needed the gun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You okay, Edward?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He swallowed before he said, "Fine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't believe him, but I didn't ask again. This was probably as good as it was going to get for awhile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward tried to turn and say something to the kids, but it hurt, and I had to turn for him, moving us both to face backwards. "Cover Becca's eyes, Peter."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter had Becca bury her face against his shoulder and kept his hand pressed to the back of her head. He didn't have the Firestar in his hands. I wondered where it was but not enough to ask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned Edward back around, and we started up the stairs again. Olaf was almost at the next bend in the stairs, when he stopped. He was looking down at the steps. I froze and said, "No one move."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it a trap?" Edward asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I saw it then, thin rivulets of blood sliding down the steps towards us. It snaked around Olaf's feet and dripped its way toward Edward and me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter wasn't that far behind us. He asked, "What is that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Blood," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Please tell me that this is your handiwork, Olaf," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I watched the blood flow around my Nikes and knew that our problems had just gotten worse.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_63" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36492844" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36492846" class="calibre7"></a>61 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I LEANED EDWARD up against the wall. He wanted me free to shoot if Olaf told me to. Olaf got to scout ahead and see what the problem was. He vanished around that corner, and I pressed myself to the wall and gave the briefest of looks ahead. The stairs ended just up ahead. The electric lights showed a cave, I think. The lights glistened on blood and bodies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf backed up, and came down to us again. "I can see the exit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are the bodies?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Riker's men."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What killed them?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think it is our murderous beast. But there is no other way out. The other entrance has been blocked by an explosion. We must go out this way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I figured if the murderous beast was up there waiting for us, Olaf would have been more excited. So I went back to Edward. His skin was the color of bad paste. His eyes were closed. They opened when I touched him, but they were brighter than they should have been. "We're almost out," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't say anything, just let me settle his arm over my shoulder. He was still holding on to me, but every step we took, my arm around his waist was taking more and more of his weight. "Hold on, Edward, just a little further."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His head jerked as if he'd just heard me, but his feet kept moving with me. We were going to make it, all of us. The blood got thicker the farther up we walked. Edward slipped in it, and I had to catch him and barely managed to keep us both standing. But it was a sudden movement, and he let out a small sound of pain. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Watch your step, Peter," I said. "It's slippery."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf was waiting for us at the bodies. There were only three of them. One was a man I didn't recognize, but I recognized the gun near his body. He was one of Simon's men. Simon was lying in a pool of blood and darker fluids. The entire lower chest, stomach, abdomen were open. His intestines trailed out onto the cave floor, but his eyes were still blinking upward, still alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The third body was Amanda, and she was still moving, too. But Olaf had her covered, so I kept my attention on Simon. He smiled up at us. "At least I killed the Undertaker."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's not nearly as dead as you are," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're all dead, bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We know you invited company," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes looked uncertain. "Fuck you." His hand inched towards his gun that was still lying beside him. Gutted, dying, in more pain than I could imagine, and he tried to go for his gun. I stepped on his hand, pinning it to the earth. Harder to do than normal with Edward hanging on me, but I managed. "Peter, you and Becca go up with Bernardo to the front of the cave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter didn't argue. He just carried Becca past us, Bernardo trailing behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pointed the gun barrel at Simon's head. I couldn't leave him behind because I didn't trust him at my back. Even this wounded, I wasn't willing to take the chance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I hope the monster guts you, Bitch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's Ms. Bitch to you," I said and pulled the trigger. A short burst, but more shots echoed mine. I whirled, gun up, and found Peter standing over Amanda's body. He emptied the Firestar into her body while I watched. Olaf was just watching him do it. I looked for Bernardo and found him holding Becca near the cave mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward started to slide to his knees. I knelt with him, trying to keep him upright. He whispered, "The kids, out, get them ... out," and he fainted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf was there without me asking. He lifted Edward in his arms like a child. If the monster came now, we all had our hands full. Shit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter had run out of bullets, but he was still squeezing the trigger, over and over and over. I went to him. "Peter, Peter, she's dead. You killed her. Ease down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't seem to hear me. I touched his hands, tried to lift the gun from him. He jerked away, violently, eyes wild. He kept dry firing into the woman's body. I shoved him back against the rock wall, hard, one arm across his throat, the other pinning his hands still wrapped around the Firestar. His eyes were wide and frightened, but he looked at me. "Peter, she's dead. You can't kill her any more dead than she already is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice shook when he said, "I wanted her to hurt."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She did hurt. Being torn apart is a bad way to die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "It's not enough."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," I said, "it isn't enough, but you killed her, Peter. That's as good as revenge gets. Once you kill them, there isn't any more."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the Firestar out of his hands, and he let me. I tried to hug him, but he pushed me away, then walked away. The time for that kind of comfort was past, but there were other kinds of comfort. Some of them came from the barrel of a gun. There is some comfort in killing that which has hurt you, but it is cold comfort. It'll destroy things inside of you that the original pain wouldn't have harmed. Sometimes it's not a question of whether a piece of your soul is going to go missing, only which piece it's going to be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter carried Becca. Olaf carried Edward. Bernardo and I took the lead. We searched the spring darkness with our guns, back and forth, back and forth. Nothing moved. There was just the sound of wind in the tall line of sage bushes that bordered the back of the cave. The air felt so good against my face, and I realized that I'd not really expected to get out, not alive. Pessimism, it wasn't like me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo led the way back to circle the house. We'd try for Edward's car, but we wanted to make sure no one or no thing was waiting to eat us when we went for the car. Olaf went second, carrying a very still Edward. I was praying hard that he'd be okay, though strangely it felt odd to pray to God for Edward, as if I were praying in the wrong direction. Peter and Becca were just ahead of me. He stumbled as we headed into the thicker brush. He had to be tired, but I couldn't afford to carry Becca. I needed to have my hands free to fight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I felt the prickling brush of magic. I called, "Guys, something's out here."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone stopped and started searching the darkness. "What did you see?" Olaf asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nothing, but something out here is doing magic."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf made a noise in his throat like he didn't believe me. Then the first wave of fear washed over us. So much fear that it closed the throat, sent the heart thundering, made the palms of your hand sweat. Becca started struggling violently in Peter's arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took two steps to help Peter control her, but she struggled free, fell to the ground, and ran like a rabbit into the brush. Peter yelled, "Becca!" and went after her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Peter, Becca! Oh, shit!" I ran into the brush after them. What else could I do? I heard them just up ahead, crashing through the brush, Peter calling Becca's name. I had a sense of movement to my right, and I saw something. It was bigger than a man and even by moonlight you could see it was different colors. I fired into it as it opened a huge razored mouth, but the claw kept coming towards me, as if the bullets were nothing. The closed claw slammed into my head. It knocked me off my feet, and I hit the ground hard. Darkness swirled across my vision, and when I could see again, the thing was right above me. I kept my finger on the trigger, until it clicked empty. The monster never hesitated. It filled my vision with a face that was almost birdlike, and I had a moment to think it was pretty before it hit me again, and there was nothing but darkness.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_64" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36493041" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36493043" class="calibre7"></a>62 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I WOKE INSTANTLY, my skin jumping with a rush of magic that left me gasping. My body strained, writhing as the power rode over and through my body in a burning surge that just kept growing. My hands and legs strained against the chains that held me down. Chains? I turned and stared at my wrists, head still thrashing, my body jerking as the power roared through me. My arms and legs jerked, not because I was struggling against the chains but as a reaction to the power.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The magic began to fade, leaving my breath coming in pants. One thing I knew. If didn't get my breathing under control, I was going to hyperventilate. Passing out again would be bad. Heaven knew what I'd wake up to a second time. I concentrated on my breathing, forcing myself to be calm, and take deep, even, normal breaths. It's hard to be totally panic-stricken when you're doing breathing exercises. It poured a false calm over my body, and my mind. But it let me think, which was good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was lying on my back, chained to a smooth stone surface. There was a curve of cave wall beside me, and a ceiling lost to sight in the darkness above. I'd have loved to believe that Bernardo and Olaf had rescued me and we were back in the cave entrance, but the chains sort of ruined that pleasant thought. This cave was much taller, and without looking it just felt bigger. Firelight bounced in orange shadows along the cave, like being in a ball of darkness and gold light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I finally turned my head to the right and let myself see what was there, At first I thought it was Pinotl, Itzpapalotl's human servant, I had a few seconds of cursing myself for believing her when she said she didn't know about the monster, then I realized it wasn't him. It looked like him. Same square, chiseled face, dark, rich skin, and the black hair cut long and oddly square, but this man was narrow through the shoulders, thin, and there was no air of command to him. He was also wearing a pair of loose-fitting shorts instead of the nifty clothes that Pinotl wore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a smooth rounded stone like the one at the Obsidian Butterfly. There was a body draped over that stone. Foreshortened legs and arms, short dark hair, and for a moment I thought it was Nicky Baco, then I saw the naked chest more clearly, and it was Paulina, Nicky's wife. There was a hole under her ribs like a great gaping mouth. They'd torn out her heart. The unknown man stood there holding the heart in his hands, above his head like an offering. His eyes looked black in the uncertain light. He lowered his arms, walking towards me with the heart cupped in his hands. His hands were so thick with blood that it looked like he was wearing red gloves. There were four men standing at attention around the altar. They were wearing some sort of soft leather on their bodies, hoods up and covering them from head to foot almost. There was something wrong with what they were wearing, but my eyes couldn't make sense of it, and I had other more immediate problems than what people were wearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was still wearing the Kevlar vest and all the rest of my clothes. If they meant to take my heart, they'd have taken the clothes. It was a very comforting thought as the man, the priest, walked towards me with the heart in his hands. He held the heart over my chest and began to chant in a language that sounded like Spanish, but wasn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blood dripped from the heart, splatted on the vest. It made me jump. The calm of the breathing exercises was wearing off. I did not want him to touch me with that thing. It wasn't even logic, fear of some spell or magic. It was pure revulsion. I did not want to be touched by a heart that had just been torn out of someone's body. I've put my share of stakes through hearts. I've even cut a few out for burning, but somehow this was different. Maybe it was being chained and helpless, or maybe it was Paulina's body lying limp over the altar, looking like a broken doll. The only time I'd met her she'd been so strong, threatening me with a gun, but lots of people had done that. Edward used to do that all the time. Starting out a relationship on the end of a gun didn't mean you couldn't be friends down the road. Unless one of you died. No friendship now. No nothing for Paulina.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man ended the chant and began to lower the heart towards me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I strained against the chains though I knew it was useless, and I said, "Don't touch me with that." It sounded sure and strong, but if he understood English, I couldn't tell it because he just kept lowering his bloody hands, closer and closer. He laid the heart on my chest, and I was almost as grateful that the Kevlar kept me from feeling that thing next to my skin, as I'd been for the extra protection from bullets earlier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heart lay on my chest like so much meat. There was no magic to it. It was just dead. Then the heart took a breath, or that's what it looked like. The skin rose and fell. It sat on my chest, naked and attached to nothing and pulsed. I was suddenly aware of my own heartbeat. The moment I noticed my heartbeat, Paulina's heart stuttered, then began to beat in time with mine. And the moment the rhythms were shared, I could hear a second heart beat. Except that Paulina's heart had no blood to pump, no chest to resonate in. It should have been a pale sound compared to the real thing, but it was a solid pulsing beat. It was as if the sound reached through the vest, through my skin, my ribs, and pierced my heart. The pain was sharp and immediate, stealing my breath, bowing my spine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hold her," the man yelled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men who'd been standing by the altar ran to me, strong hands pressing on my legs, pinning my shoulders. My spine tried to bow with the pain, and a third set of hands pressed down on my thighs, three of them pinning me to the stone, forcing me to ride the pain and not struggle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Paulina's heart was beating faster and faster, speeding, speeding, towards some grand climax. My heart thundered against my ribs, as if it were trying to tear loose of the tissue. It was as if a fist were beating on the inside of my chest, trying to smash its way out. I couldn't breathe, as if all of my chest was caught up in the frantic race, and there was no time for anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pain was centered in my chest, but it spread down my arms, my legs, filled my head until I thought that it might not be my heart that exploded. It might be the top of my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could feel the two hearts like lovers separated by a wall, tearing it down between them until they would be able to touch. There was a moment when I felt them touch, felt the thick wet sides of the two organs slide into each other. Maybe it was just the pain. Then the heart stopped like a person caught in mid-motion, and my heart stopped with it. For a breathless moment my heart sat in my body and did nothing, as if waiting. Then it gave one beat, then another, and I drew air into my lungs in a frantic rush, and as soon as I had air, I screamed. Then I lay there, still listening to my heart beat, feeling the pain begin to fade like the memory of a nightmare. Minutes later, the pain was gone. My body didn't even hurt. In fact, I felt energized, wonderful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The heart on my chest had shriveled into a gray, used up piece of flesh. It wasn't recognizable as a heart, just a dry ball smaller than my palm. I blinked up and saw the face of the man holding my shoulders down. I'm sure he'd been looking down at me for a while, but I hadn't seen him or hadn't understood what I was seeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wore a mask over his face. Only his lips, eyes, and ears showed through the thin covering. His neck was bare, then a ragged bow neck of the same material of the mask covered him. I think part of me knew what I was looking at, before the rest of me would accept it. It wasn't until I turned my head as far as I could to one side, and saw the hands that I knew what he was wearing. The empty hands bunched at his wrists like limp, fleshly lace. It was human skin. I'd finally found out what had happened to some of the skin the flayed ones had lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eyes that stared out of that horrible thing were brown and very human. I looked down the line of my body and found that the other two men holding my legs wore the same thing, but the skins weren't all the same colors. One dark, two light. The chests had thick cord sewn across it where the breasts and nipples would have been, so there was no clue to whether the skin had been male or female.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first man I'd seen stepped forward. "How do you feel?" His English was heavily accented but clear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just looked at him for a second. He had to be kidding. "How am I supposed to feel? I just woke up in a cave where you just performed a human sacrifice." I glanced at the men still holding me down. "I'm being held down by men wearing flayed human skin suits. How the hell I am I supposed to feel?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am asking after your bodily health. Nothing more," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to say something else sarcastic, but stopped and really thought about his question. How did I feel? Actually, I felt good. I remembered that rush of energy and well-being that had spread over me when the spell finished. It was still there. I felt better than I'd felt in days. If it hadn't required human sacrifice, it would have been a great medical treatment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I feel okay."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No pain in the head?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Good," he said. He motioned, and the skin guys moved away from me. They moved back to stand against the wall by the fourth man who hadn't been needed to hold me down. They stood there like good soldiers, waiting for their next orders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned back to look at the other guy. Everyone in the room was scary, but at least he wasn't wearing someone else's skin. "What did you do to me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We have saved your life. Our master's creature was overzealous. There was bleeding in your head. We needed you alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought about that. "You used Paulina's life force to heal me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad to be alive, honest." I looked past him at Paulina's body lying broken and forgotten. "But she didn't volunteer to trade her life for mine, did she?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nicky Baco began to suspect what price he would have to pay for our master's blessing. She was a hostage to make sure he came to this our last meeting," the man said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let me guess. He didn't show," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He no longer answers our master's call."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Apparently, Ramirez had taken my advice of having Leonora Evans do some sort of magical barrier around Nicky so he couldn't contact his master. Good to know it was working, but you try to do the right thing and it ends up getting someone else killed. Why is that always the way it works? But I admit that I was happier for me than sorry for Paulina. Not about her trading her life for mine, but if Nicky was being protected by magic, then he and the police were on their way. All I had to do was stall and keep them from doing whatever it was they had planned for me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So when Nicky didn't show up, you didn't need to keep her alive." My voice sounded calm, but better than that, I was calm. Not normal calm, but the cool distant calm that you either learn to do during the really bad stuff, or you run screaming. I'd done all the screaming I planned on doing tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Her life did not matter. Yours does."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad to be alive, and don't take this wrong, but why do you give a damn if I live or die?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We need you," a male voice said from behind me. I had to arch my neck and crane my head backward to see the owner of that second voice. I didn't see the man at first because he was surrounded by the flayed ones. I'd known that Edward was worried that they'd missed some bodies. He had no idea. There must have been twenty-five, thirty-five animated corpses standing behind me. They'd been standing so quietly, I hadn't heard them or sensed them. They stood there now like robots with the switch turned off, waiting for life to return. Zombies never got that still, never went that empty. At the end, when they started to rot and you had to put them back in the grave before they melted into little puddles, they were more alive than this. I realized in that instant that the bodies were raised, but the person inside that body wasn't raised. The master ate that which made them individuals. He ate that which made them more than so much muscle and skin. He didn't eat the souls because I'd seen one of them in a house where two flayed ones had been made. But he took something out of their bodies, some memory or remnant that I left in when I raised the dead. They stood like rocks carved of flesh, utterly empty. At least the ones in the hospital had pretended to still be alive. There was no pretense here.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My eyes finally found the man. He wore a steel helmet and breastplate like the history books are always showing the conquistadors wearing, but the rest of the outfit was straight out of a nightmare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wore a necklace of tongues, and they were all still fresh and pink as if they'd just been cut out seconds ago. He wore a skirt of intestines that writhed and twisted like snakes, as if each thick glistening strand had an independent life of its own. His arms were bare, strong and muscled, and covered in the missing eyelids of the victims. As he moved close, the eyelids opened and closed. He came to stand beside me, next to the first man. The eyelids blinked at me and there were eye shaped holes underneath every lid that I saw. The holes held darkness and the cold light of stars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned away because I was remembering Itzpapalotl's starry eyes. I didn't want to fall into these eyes. At that second if you had given me a choice, I'd have taken the vampire in town to the thing that was standing in front of me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After what I'd seen at the murder scene, I expected to feel evil emanating from him, but there was no evil. There was power like being next to a battery the size of the Chrysler building. The energy hummed along my skin, but it was neutral energy. Neither good nor bad in and of itself, the way a gun is neither good nor bad but can be turned to evil purposes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared up the line of his body, and the tongues were moving as if still trying to scream. He took off the helmet and showed a slender, handsome face that reminded me of Bernardo's, not the pure Aztec ethnicity I'd been expecting. He had turquoise ear spools in his lobes, and they matched the blue green of his eyes. He smiled down at me, looking like a fresh-faced twenty-something. I could feel the weight of the ages in his gaze like some vast weight pressing down on me, as if just being this close made it hard to breathe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out to touch my face, and I jerked back from him. That one movement seemed to break his hold over me. I could move. I could breathe. I could think. I'd been on the receiving end of enough magical glamour to know it when I felt it. You're either a god, or you're not. He was not. And it wasn't just my monotheism showing. I'd felt the magic of monsters and preternatural beasties of all sorts, and I knew one when I saw one. Power doesn't make you a deity. I don't know exactly what does, but power ain't it. Some spark of the divine was missing from the being that gazed down upon me. If he was just another monster, maybe we could deal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you?" And I was happy that my voice was confident, normal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am the Red Woman's Husband." He gazed down at me with eyes so patient, so kind. You think angels must have eyes like that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The Red Woman is the Aztec phrase for blood. What does it mean that you're blood's husband?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am the body, and she is the life." He said it like it answered my question. It didn't.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something wet and slimy touched my hand. I jerked back, but the chain didn't let me go far. The length of animated intestine followed my hand, nuzzling it like some obscene worm. I swallowed a scream, but I couldn't keep my pulse from speeding up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed at me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a very ordinary laugh for a would-be god, but it was nicely condescending and maybe that's how would-be gods laughed. But it was a peculiarly masculine condescension, long gone out of style. The laugh says, "Silly little girl, don't you know I'm the big strong man, and you know nothing, and I know everything?" Or maybe I'm just too sensitive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why intestines?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The smile faded around the edges. His handsome face looked puzzled. "Are you making fun of me?" The intestine dropped away from my hand like a date that I'd rebuffed. Fine with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No. I just wondered why intestines. You can obviously animate any body part. You can keep detached parts from decaying like the skins your men are wearing. With all that to choose from, why people's guts and not something else?" People love to talk about themselves. The bigger the ego, the more they enjoy it. I was hoping that the Red Woman's Husband was the same as everyone else, at least in this one thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wear the roots of their bodies so that all that see me will know that my enemies are empty shells and I have all that was theirs."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ask a silly question. "Why the tongues?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So that the lies of my enemies will not be believed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Eyelids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will open the eyes of my enemies so that they may never again close their eyes to the truth."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was answering questions so nicely that I decided to try for more. "How did you skin the people without using a tool of some kind?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tlaloci, my priest, called the skin from their bodies."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My power," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't you mean Tlaloci's power?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned again. "All his power derives from me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am his master. He owes all to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sounds like you owe him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You do not know what you are saying." He was getting angry. Probably not what I wanted. I tried another more polite question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why take the breasts and penises?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"To feed my minion." He did nothing, but suddenly I felt the air in the cavern move, and it was as if the shadows themselves drew apart like a curtain revealing a tunnel about thirty feet from the foot of where I lay. Something crawled out of that tunnel. The first impression was of a brilliant iridescent green. The scales changed color at every turn of the light. First green, then blue, then blue and green all at once, then a pearl white glitter that I thought I must have imagined, until it turned its head and flashed a white underbelly. The green scales went closer to true blue as the color moved up towards the head, until the square snout was a clear pure blue the color of sky. There was a fringe of delicate feathers in a rainbow of colors around that face. It turned and stared at me, fanning the feathers around its scaled head into a display that would have been the envy of any peacock. Its eyes were round and huge, taking up most of its face like the eyes of a bird of prey. A pair of slender wings was folded along its back, rainbow colors of the fringe, but I knew without seeing that the underside of the wings would be white. It pushed forward on four legs. Counting the wings, it was a six-limbed animal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a Quetzalcoatl Draconus Giganticus, or at least that was the last Latin classification I was aware of. Sometimes they were classed as a subspecies of dragons, sometimes as a subspecies of gargoyles, and sometimes they had their own group all to themselves. Whatever classification, the Giganticus was the biggest and supposedly extinct. The Spaniards had killed a lot of them to dishearten the natives to whom they were sacred, and because it was just the European thing to do. See a dragon, kill it. It was not a complex philosophy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd only seen black and white photos, and the stuffed one in the Chicago Field Museum. The photos hadn't come close to doing it justice, and the stuffed one, well, maybe it was a bad taxidermy job.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It glided into the room in a shimmering roll of color and muscle. It was literally one of the most beautiful things I'd ever seen. It was also probably what had been gutting people. It opened that sky-blue snout and yawned showing rows of saw-like teeth. The sound of its claws clattered over the stone floor like some nightmarish dog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Red Woman's Husband lay his Spanish helmet on the stone by my legs and went to greet the creature. It lowered its head to be petted, very like a dog. He stroked it just above the eye ridges and it made a low, rolling sound, eyes closing to slits. It was purring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sent it away with a playful push against one muscular shoulder. I watched it vanish back through the tunnel like it wasn't real. "I thought they were extinct."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My minion helped bring us to this place, then it slept a magic sleep, waiting for me to awake."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know Quetzalcoatls could hibernate."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me again and came to stand by my head. "I know what your word hibernate means, but it was a magic sleep, done by the last of my warrior priests. The priest sacrificed himself, putting all of us in an enchanted sleep, knowing that there was no one to aid him, and that he would die alone in this alien place long before I rose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enchanted sleep. Sounded like Sleeping Beauty. "That's true loyalty, sacrifice yourself for the better good."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm so glad you agree. It will make what has to happen much easier."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Didn't like the sound of that. Maybe flattery wasn't the way to go. I'd try something more normal for me -- sarcasm -- and see if that led us away from the topic of my impending doom. "I don't owe you any loyalty. I am not one of your followers."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Only because you do not understand," he said, and those smiling eyes gazed down at me with a look of almost perfect peace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's what Jim Jones said just before he gave every one the Kool-Aid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not know this name, Jim Jones." Then he turned his head to one side, and it reminded me of Itzpapalotl when she listened to voices I could not hear. Now I realized that it might just be a way to access other people's memories. "Ah, I know who he is now." He looked down at me with those calm, beatific eyes. "But I am no madman. I am a god."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was getting distracted, as if it mattered to him for me to believe he was a god. If he had to convince me that he was divine before he killed me, then I was safe. He could kill me, but he'd never convince me he was a god.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned. "You do not believe me." He sounded surprised again. And I realized that for all his power, he seemed young. The ages raged through the eyes on his arms as though you could see back through to the beginning of creation, but he, himself, seemed young. Or maybe he just wasn't used to people who didn't drop down and worship him. If that's all you'd known in your entire existence, then anyone not worshipping might be a shock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am a god," he repeated, and his voice had that condescending tone again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever you say." But I made sure my doubt showed in my voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The frown deepened, and again I was reminded forcibly of a pouting child. A spoiled, pouting child. "You must believe that I am a god. I am the Red Woman's Husband. I am the body that will be revenged on those that destroyed my people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean the Spanish Conquistadors?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There aren't a lot of conquistadors in New Mexico," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Their blood still runs in the veins of their children's children's children."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No offense, but you didn't get those turquoise blue eyes from anyone local."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned again, and little lines formed between his eyes. If he kept talking to me, he was going to get frown lines. "I am a god created by my people's tears. I am the power that is left of the Aztecs, and I am the Spaniard's magic made flesh. We will use their own power to destroy them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Isn't it a little late to destroy them? About five hundred years too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gods do not reckon time as men do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I believed that he believed what he was saying, but I also thought he was rationalizing. He'd have kicked the Spaniards' butts five hundred years ago if he'd been able to do it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maybe it showed on my face because he said, "I was a new god then, and I did not have the strength to defeat our enemies, so the Quetzalcoatl brought me here to wait until I grew strong enough for our purpose. I am ready to lead my army forward now."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you're saying that it took five hundred years for you to go from being a wee little god to a big bad god, the way soup needs to simmer for a really long time before it's soup?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed. "You think very strangely. I am sad that you will be dead soon. I would make you the first of my concubines, and the mother of gods, for children born of you would be great sorcerers, but sadly, I have need of your life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We were back to killing me, and I didn't want to be there. His ego seemed pretty fragile for a deity. I'd see how fragile. "The offer doesn't sound very appealing, no offense."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled down at me, fingers trailing along my arm. "That we will take your life is not an offer. It is a fact."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I gave him my best innocent eyes. "I thought you were offering to make me your concubine, the mother of gods?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me harder. "I did not offer you a chance to be my concubine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh," I said. "Sorry. I misunderstood you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His fingers were still touching my arm, but they were still now, as if he'd forgotten he was touching me. "You would refuse my bed?" He sounded truly perplexed. Great.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it your virtue you are protecting?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, it's just your particular offer doesn't appeal to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was really having trouble with the concept that I didn't find him attractive. He ran his fingers down my bare arm in a tickling brush. I just lay there and looked at him. I was giving him some of the best eye contact I'd given anyone this trip because if I looked anywhere else, I kept seeing severed body parts wiggling on their own. Hard to be tough as nails when you wanted to start screaming. He touched my face, and I let him this time. His fingers traced my face, delicately, gently. His eyes no longer looked peaceful. No, definitely disturbed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned into me as if he'd kiss me, and the eye lashes on his arms fluttered in butterfly kisses along my body. I gave a little shriek.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew back. "What is wrong?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I don't know. Severed eyelids fluttering against my skin, intestines that writhe like snakes around your waist, the necklace of tongues trying to lick me. Pick one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But that should not matter," he said. "You should see me as beautiful, desirable."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did the best shrug I could with my hands chained higher than my shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, but I just can't get past what you're wearing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tlaloci," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man in shorts came forward, and dropped to one knee before him. "Yes, my lord."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why does she not see me as wonderful?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Apparently, the aura of your godhood does not work on her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why not?" And there was anger now in his voice, in that once peaceful face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I do not know, my lord."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You said she could replace Nicky Baco. You said she was a nauhuli as he was. You said she had been touched by my magic, and it was the scent of my magic that drew the Quetzalcoatl to her. But she lies under the touch of my hands and does not feel for me. That is not possible if my magic clings to her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought, what if it's not his magic, but I didn't say it out loud. What if it was Itzpapalotl's? The being standing in front of me had nearly killed me from a distance. He'd roared over my mind and taken me, and I hadn't been able to stop him. Now, he was touching me, and evidently trying things on me, and it wasn't working. The only thing that had changed was Itzpapalotl's power filling me for awhile. Had that made the difference?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tlaloci stood, head still bowed. "There must be powerful magic at work here, my lord. First Nicky Baco is lost to us, and now this one is closed to your vision."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She must be open to my power or she cannot be the perfect sacrifice," Red Woman's Husband said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know, my lord."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are the magician, Tlaloci. How can I undo this magic?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The magician put some serious thought into it. Several minutes passed while he thought. I just lay there trying not to draw their attention back to me. Finally, Tlaloci looked up. "To believe in your vision, she must believe in you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How do I convince her to believe that I am a god if she cannot feel my power?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a good question, and I waited patiently for Tlaloci to answer it. The longer he thought about it, the more delay time I was getting. Ramirez was coming. I had to believe that because my options were limited unless I could figure out a way to get them to untie me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could feel the pen still in my pocket with its hidden blade. I was armed, if I could get my hands free, and if steel could hurt him. Of course, there were the four helpers, and Tlaloci, and a small army of flayed ones. So even if the god could die, I'd have to do something about everyone else. They'd probably be pissed if I killed their god. I just wasn't sure how to get out of this one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If Ramirez didn't arrive with the cavalry, I was in deep shit. Edward wasn't out there looking for me this time. For the first time since I came to, I wondered was Edward alive. Please, God, let him be alive. But alive or not, Edward was out of the rescuing game for tonight. I admitted I needed help on this one, and the only hope I could count on was Ramirez and the police. He'd been late in the hospital. If he were late tonight, I probably wouldn't be around to complain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tlaloci motioned for his god to follow him a little away from me. I think they were whispering things they didn't want me to know. Whydid it matter if I overheard them or not? What could they possibly be talking about that they needed to hide from me? They'd cheerfully told me they were going to kill me. It wasn't like they were trying to protect my feelings. So what was going on?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband unfastened the necklace of tongues and handed it to the priest. He took off the steel breastplate and one of the skin guys came and took it from him, kneeling in front of him. He took off the skirt of intestines, and another skin guy hurried forward to take it. The "god" never asked them to help him, just sort of assumed that someone would be there to help. He was almost perfectly arrogant, but his ego was fragile, an arrogance that had never been tested in the outer world. He was like one of those fairy tale princesses that had been raised in an ivory tower with only people who told them how beautiful they were, how smart, how good, until the witch comes and lays her curse. Maybe I could be the witch, though truthfully I wouldn't have known a curse if it bit me on the butt. Maybe I could be the prince that comes and takes him away. At this point I wasn't picky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The "god" was wearing a maxilatl like everyone at the Obsidian Butterfly had worn. But this one was black with a heavy fringe of golden thread hanging in front. He wore black sandals set with turquoise, which strangely I hadn't noticed when he was wearing all the severed body parts. Funny how you don't concentrate on the small details when you're scared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He walked towards me, confidence showing in every step. The maxilatl left his lower body bare on the sides from waist to sandals. It was a nice length of thigh, but you know what they say. Pretty is as pretty does.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is this better?" he asked, his voice light, almost teasing, his eyes back to that peaceful contentment, as if things had always gone his way, and he didn't see why now should be different. Itzpapalotl had been arrogant, but not peaceful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Much better," I said. I thought about remarking on how much I liked seeing nearly naked men, but didn't want to take it to such an obviously sexual tone unless I ran out of other options.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He came to stand beside me again. The eyelids were still on his arms, blinking at me like the winking lights of fireflies, random, and alien.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's a big improvement," I said. "You can't do anything about the eyes on your arms, can you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned again. "They are part of me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I see that," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But they are nothing to fear."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you say so."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want you to know me, Anita." It was the first time he'd used my name. I hadn't thought he knew it, until then. Of course, Paulina had known who I was. The Red Woman's Husband reached down to my right wrist, and he undid that little piece of metal that held the manacle closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The skinned man who was still standing on the other side of the stone took a step forward, hand on the knife at his belt. I froze, not sure if I was really going to be allowed to have my hand free.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The "god" lifted my hand free of the chain and laid his lips on the back of my hand. "Touch them. See that they are nothing to fear." It took me a second to figure out that "them" meant the eyes on his arms. I was relieved to realize he didn't mean anything below his waist, and so not happy that he meant all those eyes. I did not want to touch them. I wanted nothing to do with anything that had been carved off of a dead body, especially while that person had still been alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held my wrist and tried to bring my hand over his arm, but I kept a tight fist. "Touch them, Anita, gently. They will not harm you." He began to pry my fingers open, and I couldn't fight him. I could have fought harder, maybe make him break a finger or two, to persuade me, but in the end I was going to lose this wrestling match, so I just let him spread my hand open. I didn't want anything broken if I could avoid it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He guided my hand just above his arm, and the eyelids fluttered under my touch. I jumped every time one of them blinked, but the eyelids moving against my skin in a line of butterfly kisses wasn't as scary. The lids felt full, as if there was an eye behind them, and there wasn't. I'd seen that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's inside them?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everything," he said. Which told me nothing. "Explore them, Anita." He pressed one of my fingertips to the edge of an eye. Then he urged me to put the finger inside the eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pushed my finger into that empty seeming eye, and there was a resistance like pushing against something thin and fleshy, then my finger was through and I could touch what was inside. Warm, a warmth that flowed through my hand, up my arm, and spread like a blanket over my body. I felt safe, warm. I stared up at him and wondered why I hadn't seen it before? He was so handsome, so kind, so ... My finger was cold, so cold that it hurt. It had that stinging pain that you get just before you lose all feeling in the limb, and frostbite settles in and spills over your body, and you fall into that last gentle sleep, never to wake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked my hand back, and blinked awake, with a gasp.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What is wrong?' he asked, and leaned over me, touching my face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I jerked away from him, cradling my hand against my chest, staring up at him, afraid. "You're cold inside."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a step back from me, and the surprise showed on his face. "You should feel safe, warm." He leaned over me, trying to get me to gaze into his blue-green eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. Feeling was coming back into my finger in a stinging rush, the way circulation comes back after frostbite. The throbbing ache helped me think, helped me avoid his gaze. "I'm not safe," I said, "and I'm not warm." I looked away from him, which put me gazing at the skin-clad guy. But truthfully even that was better than staring at the "god." Itzpapalotl's touch was helping me, but it had limits. If I fell into his eyes, wherever they might be, they'd just kill me, and I might go willingly, eagerly into that last dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are making this difficult, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept my gaze on the far wall. "Sorry that I'm ruining your night."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stroked the curve of my face. I flinched as if he'd hurt me. I'd thought what I was trying to delay was my death. Now I realized that I was trying to delay falling into his power. They'd kill me after that, but I'd be gone before the knife fell. Had Paulina gone like that, willingly, eager to please the "god?" I hoped so, for her sake. For mine, I wasn't so sure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I want you to believe that your death will be for a great purpose."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, not buying swampland today."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could almost feel his puzzlement like a play of energy along my skin, I'd felt anger, lust, fear dance along my skin from vampires and wereanimals, but I'd never felt puzzlement before. I hadn't felt his emotions before I touched that damned eye. He was sucking me down a piece at a time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed my hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No." I said it through gritted teeth. He could break my fingers this time, but I wasn't just opening up and touching him again. I couldn't just cooperate with him anymore, not even to buy time. I had to start fighting him now, or there'd be nothing left of me. I'd had vampires roll my mind before, but I'd never felt anything like him. Once he got a really good hold on my mind, I wasn't a hundred percent sure I'd come back. There are a lot of ways to die. Being killed is only one of the more obvious ones. If he rolled my mind and there was nothing left of who I was, then I was dead or would wish I was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I flexed my arm, hugging it to my chest, straining my muscles to keep it there. He lifted the wrist and my whole upper body with it, but I held the arm, fingers closed into a fist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do not make me hurt you, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm not making you do anything. Whatever you do, it's your choice to do it, not mine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laid me back down, gently. "I could crush your hand." It sounded like a threat, but his voice was still gentle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't touch you again, not like that, not voluntarily."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But lay your hand upon my chest, above my heart. That is not a hard thing, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are a very stubborn woman."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not the first one to say it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will not force you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The skinned man moved forward until he was directly against the stone, mirroring his "god." He drew an obsidian blade and bent over me. I tensed, but I didn't say anything. I could not touch him again and promise I'd come out the other side. If I was going to die anyway, I'd die whole, not possessed by some would-be god.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But he didn't stab me. He slipped the tip of the blade under the shoulder of the Kevlar vest. Kevlar isn't meant to stop a stabbing motion, but it's not an easy thing to cut through, especially with a stone knife. The empty skin hand that decorated his wrist wobbled back and forth, back and forth, as he sawed. I stared past him at the far wall, but my peripheral vision just couldn't get rid of that flopping hand. I finally had to stare up at the ceiling, but it was just darkness. It's hard to stare into the dark when there are other things to look at, but I tried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I almost asked them if they knew what Velcro was, but didn't. It would take them awhile to cut the vest off with an obsidian blade. Hell, I might not have to do anything else to delay them. It'd be morning by the time the obsidian cut through the material. Unfortunately, I wasn't the only one who figured that out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The skin man put the blade back in his sheath and pulled a second knife out from a sheath behind his back, the way you'd carry a backup gun. When he raised it into the firelight, it glimmered silver, steel. With or without high silver content, it would still cut through the vest a lot quicker than the obsidian.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slipped the tip under the shoulder seam of the vest. I finally had to say something. "You just planning to cut my heart out?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your heart will remain in your chest where it belongs," the "god" said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then why do you want the vest off?" I finally turned my head and looked at him, though not at any of his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you will not touch my chest with your hand, there are other parts of your body that can feel," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was almost enough to make me give him my hand, almost. I didn't trust what he might consider other parts of my body that could feel. But it would take time to get the vest off, and if I just gave up my hand, that wouldn't take any time at all. I needed the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vest came off quicker than you'd think. It was not designed to stand up to a sawing blade. They pulled the pieces of the vest off me, tugging the last from under my back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband climbed up beside me. He knelt, staring down at me, and he wasn't staring at my face. He traced the outline of my bra with the tip of one finger. Trailing, oh, so lightly, along my skin. "What is this?" He traced under the bra back and forth, back and forth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Underwear," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He traced the black lace at the top of the bra. "So many new things to learn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Glad you like it," I said. He didn't get the sarcasm. Maybe he was immune to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did what I thought he'd do. He climbed on top of me. But he didn't get into a standard missionary position. He scooted lower until his chest was pressed against mine. With our height differences, that put his groin safely below mine. So it wasn't rape that we were doing. Maybe it was just me that worried so much about that. But somehow the knowledge that it wasn't sex he was after scared me more. There were worse things he could take from me than sex, like my mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His chest pressed against mine, smooth, warm, very human. Nothing bad happened. Funny, that didn't slow the frantic beat of my heart, or make me look him in the eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you feel it?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I just kept staring at the far wall of the cave. "I don't know what you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His chest pressed harder against me. "Do you feel my heart beating?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't the question I'd been expecting, so I actually thought about it. I tried to feel the answering beat of his heart against me, but all I could feel was my own panicked pulse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, all I can feel is mine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And that is the problem," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I actually looked up at him then, getting a brief glimpse of his face, leaning so close below mine, the startling glimpse of his blue-green eyes in that dark face. I looked back to the wall. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My heart does not beat."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to feel his heart then, tried to sense the pulse of his life through the warm flesh of his chest. Concentrating on it slowed my own heart. You aren't always aware of a man's heart beating against your body, but when they're lying chest to chest, you usually feel it. But his chest pressed quiet above mine. I moved my free hand slowly toward him. He raised up, supporting himself with his hands, so I could press my hand against his chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His skin was warm and smooth, almost perfect, but nothing beat under my hand. Either he had no heart, or it wasn't beating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I am only body. The Red Woman does not live in me. My heart is not a fit sacrifice without her touch."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made me look back at him. I looked into his peaceful eyes. "Sacrifice? You're going to sacrifice yourself?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes stayed gentle and hopeful. "I will be a sacrifice to the creator gods. They need to feed on the blood of a god as they did at the beginning of time."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tried to read something in that peaceful handsome face. Some doubt, fear, anything I could understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to let your priest cut you up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but I will be reborn."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're sure of that?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My heart will be strong enough to beat outside my body, and when it is placed back within me, the old gods will return from the exile that your white Christ has cast them into." His face, more than his words, said that he did believe it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd read enough of the conquest of Mexico by the Spanish to doubt that Christ had much to do with it, no matter how many things had been done in His name. "Don't blame Jesus Christ for what the Spanish did to your people. Our God gave us free choice, and that means we can choose evil. I believe that that's what happened to the men who conquered your people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at me, and he was puzzled again. "You believe that. I can tell you believe that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With all my heart," I said. "No pun intended."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat up, sitting across my waist. "Most of the people I have taken as offerings did not believe in much of anything. The ones who did believe, did not believe in your white Christ." He touched my face. "But you do."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How can you believe in a god that would allow you to be brought to this place and sacrificed to a foreign god?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If you only believe when it's easy, you don't really believe," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is it not ironic that you, a follower of the God that destroyed us, will be what allows me to come into my power. When I have taken your essence, I will be strong enough to make the precious liquid, and I will be free of this place at last."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, take my essence?" I'd stopped being afraid because we'd just been talking so long, or maybe I just can't sustain fear for that long. Eventually, if you don't kill me or hurt me, I stop being afraid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will but kiss you and you will become as light and dry as the aged maize. You will feed me as the corn feeds men." He began to lie down beside me on my right side, near my free hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly scared again. I hoped I was wrong, but I was pretty sure I'd already seen what he meant to do to me at the Obsidian Butterfly. "You mean you'll suck the life out of me and I'll end up looking like a dried mummy."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stroked a finger down my cheek, his eyes sad now, regretful. "It will hurt a great deal, and I am sorry for that, but even your pain will go to strengthen me." He leaned his face towards mine. I had a free hand and a knife in my pocket, but if I went for it too soon and failed, I was out of options. Where the hell was Ramirez?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going to torture me. Great," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew back from me, just a little. "It is not torture. It is the way all my priests waited for my waking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who brought your priests back?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wakened Tlaloci, but I was weak and I had no more blood to give the others. Then before we could raise the others the man you call Riker disturbed our place of rest." He stared off into space, as if he were seeing it over again. "He found what you called the mummies of my priests. Many were torn apart by his men, searching for jewels inside them." Anger darkened his face, stole the peacefulness from his eyes. "The Quetzalcoatl was not yet awake or we would have killed them all. They took things that belonged to my priests. It forced me to find a different way to give them back their lives."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The skins," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked <em class="calibre9">down </em>at me. "Yes, there are ways to make them give life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So you hunted down the people who desecrated your ... sleeping place, and the people who bought the things that belonged to your people."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I guess from a certain point of view it was fair. If you had no ability to feel mercy, then it was a dandy plan. "You killed and took the organs from the people who were gifted," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Gifted?" he made it a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Witches, brujos."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ah, yes, I did not wish to leave them alive to hunt us before I came into my power." He was touching my face again, stroking it. I think he was getting back on track to give me his "kiss".</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What exactly does coming into your power mean?" I asked. As long as I could keep him talking, he wouldn't be killing me. I could think of questions all night long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will be mortal and immortal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I widened eyes at him. "What do you mean mortal?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your blood will make me mortal. Your essence will make me immortal."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him. "I don't understand what you mean."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He cupped my face in his hands like a lover. "How could you possibly understand the ways of gods." He held out his hand, and the skin-man handed him a long bone needle. Maybe I didn't know what he was going to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's that for?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He held the needle, maybe four inches long, twirling it slowly between his fingers. "I will pierce your ear lobe and drink your blood. It will be a small pain."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You keep saying you want me to believe in you, but you're the only one who never seems to be in pain. Your priests, the people who stole from you, all the sacrifices, everybody hurts but you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He propped himself up on one elbow, his body snug against mine. "If my pain will convince you of my sincerity, then so be it." He jabbed the needle into his finger, deep, deep enough to touch bone. He drew the needle out slowly, making it hurt as much as he could. I waited for blood to come to the surface, but it didn't. He held the finger so I could see the hole the needle had left, but the hole was empty, no blood. As I watched, the wound closed like water smoothing, perfect once more. The knife wasn't going to do me any good, not against him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Does my pain make your pain less?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'll let you know," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, so patient, so kind. So full of it. He started moving the needle towards my left ear. I could have fought him with my free hand, but if all he was going to do was pierce my earlobe like I'd seen at the nightclub, then he could do that. I didn't like the idea, but I wasn't going to fight him. If I fought now, they might chain my hand back up. I wanted the free hand more than I wanted to keep him from sucking on my ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Truth is, I don't like needles, not just doctor needles, any of them. I have a phobia about small pointed things in my body. Knives don't seem to bother me, but needles do. Go figure. It was a phobia. To keep from struggling, I finally had to close my eyes because otherwise I'd have fought. I just couldn't help it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pain was sharp and immediate. I gasped opening my eyes, watching his face lean over me. For a second I thought I'd blown it. I thought he was going straight to the kiss, then his mouth passed by my mouth. He turned my face to the right, gently, exposing the ear, and the long line of my neck. It reminded me of vampires, except that this mouth licked my ear, one quick movement. He made a small sigh, as he swallowed the first blood, then his mouth closed over my earlobe, mouth working at the wound, tongue coaxing blood from the wound. He pressed his body the length of mine, one hand cupping my turned head, the other playing down the line of my body. Maybe it was just blood, but I never stroked my steak while I was eating it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The line of his jaw was pressed to my face. I could feel his mouth moving as he swallowed. I'd had vampires take blood without me being under their spell, so it had hurt. This didn't hurt nearly as much. It was more like an overzealous lover with an ear fetish. Disturbing, but not really painful. His hand moved from my face to slide inside my bra. That I didn't like.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you said you weren't offering sex."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drew his hand out of my bra and drew back from my ear. His eyes were wide and unfocused and drowning in turquoise glow like the eyes of any vampire when its bloodlust is up. "Forgive me," he said, "but it has been so very long since I felt life in my body."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought I understood what he meant, but I was asking every question I could think of tonight. Anything to keep him talking. "What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He laughed and rolled on his side to prop himself up on his elbow again. He jabbed the needle into his finger again, and gasped. Blood welled up from the wound, crimson blood. He laughed again. "Your blood runs through my body, and I am mortal once more, with all the appetites of a mortal man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You need blood to have blood pressure," I said. "You've got your first hard on in centuries. I get it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked down at me with drowning eyes. "You could have it." He moved so that his body was pressed against mine, and I could feel him pressed against my jeans, eager, and ready.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to say my usual, no, then stopped. If my choices were being raped or being killed, when I thought that help was on the way ... I debated, and I really don't know what I would have said, because another of the skin-men ran in from behind us where the silent flayed ones waited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I heard the man's running footsteps and turned to watch him push his way through the flayed ones. He dropped to one knee in front of the Red Woman's Husband. "My lord, armed strangers are approaching. The little brujo is with them, leading them this way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband looked at him. "Kill them. Delay them. When I have come into my power, it will be too late."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The skin-men got weapons out of a chest and went running. I turned my head to watch the flayed ones trail after them. Only Tlaloci the priest stayed behind. It was just the three of us. Ramirez was coming. The police were coming. Surely, I could delay a few more minutes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fingers touched my face, moving me to look at him. "You could have been the first woman in centuries for me, but there is no time." He began to lower his face towards me. "I am sorry that I must take you as an unwilling sacrifice because you have not harmed me or mine."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I slipped my hand into my pocket. Fingers closed on the pen. I turned my head to the side so he couldn't kiss me, but I was really looking to see where Tlaloci was in the room. He'd moved back to the altar. He'd thrown Paulina's body off to one side like so much garbage. He was cleaning the altar, preparing I think for his god's death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband stroked my face, trying to turn me gently towards him. He whispered, breath warm against my face. "I will wear your heart on the necklace of tongues, so that all my followers may remember your sacrifice for all eternity."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How romantic," I said. I started easing the pen out of my pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Turn to me, Anita. Do not make me hurt you." His fingers closed on my chin and began to turn my face slowly towards his. I felt his strength in his fingers and knew he could crush my jaw with only a flexing of his hand. I couldn't keep him from turning my face up to him. I couldn't stop it, but I had the pen in my hand now. I had my finger on the button that would release the blade. I just had to make sure it was over his heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gunfire sounded from outside the cave, and it sounded close as if the entrance wasn't that far away. Then there was a sound like a roaring, and I knew what it was because I'd heard it before. The police had brought flame-throwers or found some National Guard to join the party. I wondered whose idea it had been. It was a good one. I hoped they all burned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared up at him, his fingers keeping my face looking at him. "Does your heart really beat for me?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My heart beats. Blood runs through this body. You have given me life, and now you will give me immortality."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband leaned over me like Prince Charming about to bestow the kiss that would make everything all right again. His mouth hovered an inch above mine. The memory of how Seth's body had dried, died, was too vivid. I must have rushed to get the pen in position just above his heart. He pulled back a fraction of an inch, eyes questioning. I hit the button, and the blade took him through the heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes flew wide, all that turquoise fire fading, leaving his eyes human looking. "What have you done?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're just another kind of vampire. I kill vampires."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rolled off the stone, fell to the floor. He held a hand out to Tlaloci. The priest rushed over to him. I didn't wait to see if there was a cure for the "god." I undid my left wrist and reached down for my ankles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Red Woman's Husband collapsed to his knees, and the priest collapsed with him. He was crying. "No, no, no." He pressed his hands around the hilt, trying to stop the blood from pouring out. His "god" fell into convulsions on the floor. He tried to hold his hands over the wound, to staunch the blood.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got my ankles freed and rolled off to the other side of the stone. Call it a hunch, but I thought that Tlaloci would be upset with me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He rose to his feet, bloodstained hands held out in front of him. I'd never seen anyone look so horrified, so desolate, as if I had destroyed his world. And maybe I had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He never said a word, just drew the obsidian blade at his waist and stalked towards me. But the rock I'd been chained to was the size of a large dining room table, and I kept it between him and me. I kept the distance between us even, and he couldn't catch me. The gunfire was coming closer. He must have heard it, too, because he suddenly rolled over the stone to slash at me with the knife. I ran away from the stone, out into the open, which was what he wanted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned and faced him. He came for me in a crouch, knife held loose but firm, as if he knew what he was doing. I'd left the blade in the vampire. I faced him hands out from my body, not sure what to do, except not get cut. I thought of one thing. I screamed, "Ramirez!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tlaloci rushed me, blade slashing. I turned, feeling the rush of air as the blade passed. There were screams from the stairs, the sounds of in-close fighting. Tlaloci slashed at me like a madman. All I could do was keep backing up, trying to stay out of reach. I was bleeding from both arms, and one cut on my upper chest, when I realized he'd backed me up by the altar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I tripped over Paulina's body about the second I started looking for it, to avoid it. I went down on my side, her body trapped under my legs. I kicked out at him without looking to see where he was, anything to keep him at a distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed my ankle, pinning my leg against his body. We stared at each other, and I saw my death in his face. He tossed the knife one-handed so that the grip changed from slashing, to a downward stab. He had my left leg pinned, but my right leg was still on the floor. I braced my upper body with my arms, leaned my shoulders downward and drew back my right leg. I lined up his kneecap. Tlaloci started the downward stroke. I kicked the downward edge of his kneecap with everything I had. I saw the kneecap slide sideways, dislocated. His leg crumbled, he cried out in pain, but the blade kept coming.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tlaloci's head exploded in a shower of brains, and bone. The pieces rained down on me, and the body fell to one side, obsidian blade scrapping along the stone floor as the hand convulsed around the hilt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared across the cave and saw Olaf standing at the foot of the stone steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was still standing in his shooting stance, one-handed, gun still pointed at where the priest had been standing. He blinked, and I watched the concentration leave his face, watched something close to human spill across his face. He started walking towards me, gun at his side. The other hand held a knife, bloody to the hilt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was wiping Tlaloci's brains off my face when Olaf came to stand in front of me. "I never thought I'd say this, but damn I'm glad to see you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He actually smiled. "I saved your life."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That made me smile. "I know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez came down the stairs with what looked like a SWAT team in full battle gear behind him. They spilled out to either side, nasty-looking guns pointed at every inch of the cavern. Ramirez just stood there, gun in hand, looking for something to shoot. National Guardsmen in flame-thrower gear came next, nozzle of the flame-thrower pointed up at the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf cleaned his knife on his pants, sheathed it, and offered me a hand. The hand was stained red, but I took it. His skin was sticky with blood, but I squeezed his hand and let him pull me to my feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo came into the room with more cops behind him. His cast was red with blood, the blade sticking out of it so dark with blood, it looked black. He said, "You're alive."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "Thanks to Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a small pressure to my hand, then let me go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I was late again," Ramirez said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Does it matter who saves the day, as long as it gets saved?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other cops were starting to relax as they realized there was no one to shoot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Is this all?" one of the black-decked cops asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked back at the far tunnel. "There's a Quetzalcoatl down that tunnel."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A what?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A ... dragon."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even through the battle gear you could see them all exchange glances.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Monster, if you like the word better, but it's still down there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They got into ranks and went past me to the tunnel at a crouched run. They hesitated at the tunnel entrance, then slipped through one at a time. For once I let them go. I'd done my part for one night. Besides, they were a hell of a lot better armed than I was. One of them ordered Ramirez and some of the other more civvie looking policemen to escort the civilians to the surface.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ramirez came to stand in front of me. "You're bleeding." He touched the cut on my arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned so he could see some of the other cuts. "Pick one."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo and the other cops that had been ordered to stay behind came to look at the two dead men. "Where's this Red Woman's Husband that the little creep kept talking about?" one of the cops asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pointed at the body with the blade sticking out of its chest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two of the cops went to stand over the body. "He doesn't look much like a god."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He was a vampire," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That got everyone's attention. "What did you say?" Ramirez asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Let's concentrate on the important details here, hoys. We need to make sure that body doesn't get back up. Trust me. He is one powerful son of a bitch. We want him to stay dead."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cop kicked the body, which rolled limply as only the true dead move, "Looks dead to me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Watching the body roll limply made me jump, as if I expected him to sit up and say, just kidding, I'm not really dead. The body stayed still, but it hadn't done my nerves any good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We need to take the head and cut out his heart. Then we burn them separately and scatter the ashes over different bodies of water. Then we burn the body to ash, and scatter it over a third body of water."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You've got to be kidding," one of the cops said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The flayed ones just fell down and stopped moving," Ramirez said. "Did you do that?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Probably when I put the knife through his heart."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bullets hadn't worked on any of them until the flayed ones fell down, then the bullets killed everything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She did that?" the cop asked. "She made our bullets work?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Ramirez said, and probably he was right. Probably it had been me. Regardless, I wasn't going to raise any doubts. I wanted them to listen to me. I wanted to make sure that the 'god' stayed dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How exactly do we chop off the head?" the same cop asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf went to the chest that the men had gotten their weapons out of and lifted a large flat club with bits of obsidian embedded in it. He holstered his gun and walked to the body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit, that's one of those damn things they used on us," the cop said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nicely ironic to use it on their god, don't you think?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf knelt beside the body.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, we didn't say you could do that," the cop said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf looked at Ramirez. "What do you say, Ramirez?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I say we do whatever Anita says."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf whirled the club as if getting the feel for it. It also made the cops back up. He looked at me. "I'll take the head."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled the knife out of Tlaloci's hand. He wasn't going to be needing it anymore. "I'll take the heart." I walked toward him, blade in hand. The cops kept backing away from us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stood over the vampire. Olaf knelt on the other side, looking up at me. "If I'd let you get killed, Edward would have thought I failed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward's alive then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A tightness left my shoulders that I hadn't even realized was there. "Thank God."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't fail," Olaf said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I believe you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other, and there was still something in his eyes that I couldn't read or understand, a step beyond whatever I'd become. I stared into his dark eyes and knew that here was a monster, not as powerful as the one that lay on the ground, but just as deadly in the right circumstances. And I owed him my life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You take the head first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid if I take the knife out while the body's still intact that he'll sit up and start breathing again."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Olaf raised eyebrows at me. "You are not joking me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never joke about vampires," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave me another long look. "You would have made a good man."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took the compliment because that's what it was, maybe the best compliment he'd ever given a woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Thank you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The SWAT team came back out of the far tunnel. "There's nothing down there. It's empty."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then it got away," I said. I looked at the body still lying there. "Take the head. I want out of this damn cave."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The SWAT team leader didn't like us cutting up the body. He and Ramirez went into a yelling match. While everyone was watching the argument, I nodded to Olaf and he beheaded the corpse in one blow. Blood gushed out onto the cave floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What the fuck are you doing?" one of the SWAT cops asked, bringing his gun pointed at us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My job," I said. I put the tip of the blade under the ribs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The policeman brought the gun up to his shoulder. "Get away from the body until the captain tells you it's okay to do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I kept the knife against the body. "Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he shoots me, kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My pleasure." The big man turned his eyes to the policeman, and there was something in that gaze that made the heavily armed man take a step back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The captain in question said, "Stand down, Reynolds. She's a vamp executioner. Let her do her job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I plunged the blade into the skin, and it slid home. I cut a hole just below his ribs and reached into the hole. It was tight and wet and slick, and it took two hands to get the heart out, one to cut it free of the connecting tissue, and one to hold onto it. I drew it from the chest, blood stained to my elbows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I caught Ramirez and Bernardo both looking at me, with nearly identical looks on their faces. I didn't think either of them would be wanting a date any time soon. They'd always remember watching me cut a man's heart out, and that memory would stain anything else. With Bernardo, I didn't give a shit. With Ramirez, it hurt to see that look in his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand touched the heart. I stared at that hand, then looked up to meet Olaf's eyes. He wasn't repulsed. He stroked the heart, hands sliding over mine. I pulled away, and we looked at each other over the body we'd butchered. No, Olaf wasn't repulsed. The look in his eyes was that pure darkness that only fills a man's eyes in the most intimate of situations. He raised the severed head up by the hair and held it almost as if he'd let me kiss it. Then I realized he was holding it over the heart, like a matched pair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had to turn away from what I saw in his face. "Does anyone have a bag that I can carry this in?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone finally found an empty equipment bag and let me spill the heart into it. The policeman told me I could keep the bag. He didn't want it back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one offered Olaf a bag, and he never asked.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_65" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36494770" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36494772" class="calibre7"></a>63 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">THEY FOUND MY GUNS in the chest with the rest of the weapons, though the holsters were missing. I just couldn't keep a holster intact on this job. But I stuffed the guns down my jeans. The knives weren't in the chest. Ramirez drove me personally to a crematorium so that I could see the heart and head burned down to ash. When I had two little containers of ash, it was almost dawn. I fell asleep in the seat beside him, or he'd have had a fight about taking me to the hospital. But he insisted that the doctors check me out. Amazingly enough, none of the cuts were even deep enough for stitches. I wouldn't even have any new scars. Miraculous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of the men had given me a jacket that said FBI on it to cover my nearly naked upper body. Several of the uniforms and most of the hospital staff assumed I was a federal agent. I kept having to correct people, and I finally realized that the emergency room doctor thought my denial meant I had a concussion and didn't know who I was. The more I argued the more concerned he got. He ordered a series of head X-rays, and I couldn't talk him out of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was actually sitting in a wheelchair waiting to be escorted to X-ray when Bernardo came up. He touched the FBI jacket. "You're moving up in the world."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When the nurse comes back, he'll be taking me down to X-ray."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You okay?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just precautionary," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I just came back from checking on the invalids."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf said Edward would live."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He will."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How are the kids?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Peter is okay. They put Becca in a room. She's got a cast to her elbow."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I stared at his cast stained a dirty brown. "That thing is going to start stinking with all that blood dried into it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The doc wants me to get a new cast, but I wanted to check on everyone first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Where's Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo shrugged. "I don't know. He disappeared once the monsters were all dead and Ramirez had you in his car. He said something about the job being done. I guess he went back under whatever rock Edward found him under."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I started to nod, then remembered something that Edward had said. "Edward told you that you couldn't have a woman because he'd forbidden Olaf to have women, right?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but the job's over, babe. I am headed for the first open bar."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, nodding. "Maybe that's where Olaf is."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He frowned at me. "Olaf's at a bar?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, he's out getting his ashes hauled, his way."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We both looked at each other, and there was a moment when horror dawned on Bernardo's face, and hewhispered, "Oh, my god, he's out killing someone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "If he's just out killing at random, there's no way to find him, but what if it's not random?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember how he looked at Professor Dallas?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me. "You don't think ... I mean he wouldn't ... oh, shit."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got up out of the wheelchair and said, "I've got to tell Ramirez what we're thinking."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't know he's there. You don't know he's doing anything wrong."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you believe he just went home?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo seemed to think about that for a second, then shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Neither do I."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He saved your life," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know." We went to the elevator.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The elevator doors opened and Lieutenant Marks was standing there. "Where the fuck do you think you're going?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Marks, I think that Professor Dallas is in danger." I got into the elevator.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo followed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think I'd believe anything you say, witch?" He hit the button that kept the doors open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hate me if you want, but don't let her die."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Your pet FBI agent kept me out of the big raid."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I didn't know what he meant, but I was pretty sure who he meant. "Whatever Bradley did, he did without me knowing, but that's not the point."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can make it the point."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you hear that Dallas is in danger? Did you hear that part?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's as corrupt as you are."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So it's okay that she dies a horrible death," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He just looked at me. I moved as if to go towards the buttons. Bernardo caught his clue. He hit Marks in the head with his cast. The man went down, and I hit the door closed button. The doors hushed closed as Bernardo lowered Marks to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You want me to kill him?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No." But now if I went to Ramirez for help, Marks would think he'd been in on it. Shit. "Do you have Edward's car?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did Olaf drive off, then?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me. "If he's really doing this, he'll steal a car and ditch it away from the murder scene. He won't chance using Edward's car."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He'll go back to Edward's house for his goody bag," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The doors opened on the floor that he'd parked on. We got out. "What do you mean goody bag?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he's going to cut her up, then he'll want the tools he normally uses. Serial murderers are very anal when it comes to how the victims are treated. They spend a lot of time planning exactly what they'll do and how."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So he's at Edward's?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How long has he been gone?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Three hours, maybe three and a half."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, he'll be at Dallas's, if that's where he is at all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo opened the car, and we got in. I had to take the Browning out of my pants. The barrel's just too long for sitting down like that. I ended up holding it in my lap. I watched Bernardo drive with his cast-wrapped arm, "You need me to drive?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm fine. Just tell me where Dallas lives, and I'll drive us."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shit!"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He put the car in park and looked at me. "The police would know the address."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"When Marks wakes up, we'll be lucky to stay out of jail," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't even know that Olaf's at her house," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got a better one. How to explain that we know he was a serial murderer and didn't warn the police sooner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Do you have Edward's cell phone?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't argue, just leaned across and opened the glove compartment. I got the phone out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who you going to call?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Itzpapalotl. She'll know the address."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She'll eat Olaf's face."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Maybe, maybe not. Either way you better get us out of the parking area before Marks wakes up and starts screaming."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He drove us out of the parking lot and started slowly down the street. I dialed information, and the operator was happy to dial The Obsidian Butterfly for me. It was daylight. I knew better than to ask for Itzpapalotl herself, so I asked for Pinotl and told them it was an emergency and it was Anita Blake. I think it was my name that got me through, as if they'd been expecting the call.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pinotl came on the line with his rich voice. "Anita, my mistress said you would call."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was betting that she'd been wrong on the why, but ... "Pinotl, I need the address for Professor Dallas's house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence on the other end of the phone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's in danger, Pinotl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then we will take care of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to have to call the police in on this, Pinotl. They'd shoot your werejaguars on sight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are worried about our people?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Give me the address, and I'll take care of it for you, Pinotl."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Silence except for his breathing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Tell your mistress, thanks for her help, Pinotl. I know I'm alive now because she helped me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You are not angry that she did not tell you all she knew?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She's a centuries old vampire. They can't help themselves sometimes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"She is a goddess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're just arguing semantics, Pinotl. We both know what she is. Please give me the address."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave it to me. I read the directions to Bernardo, and off we went.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<h1 id="calibre_toc_66" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36495121" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36495124" class="calibre7"></a>64 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I CALLED THE POLICE on the way. I made it an anonymous call. Saying I'd heard screams. I hung up without giving my name. If Olaf wasn't there, then they'd scare the hell out of Dallas, and I'd apologize. I'd even pay for any busted locks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you tell them the truth?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What? I think that some serial killer is there murdering her. And how do you know this, ma'am? Well, officer, you see it's like this. I've known he was a serial killer for days now, but our mutual friend Ted Forrester had forbidden him from attacking women while he was here helping us solve the mutilation murders. You've heard of the mutilation murders. Who is this? It's Anita Blake, the vampire executioner. And what does an executioner know about serial murderers? More than you'd think." I looked at Bernardo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, all right. They'd still be asking questions when we arrived at the house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This way they'll send an Albuquerque PD car there ASAP. They'll get there before we can even come close."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't think you even liked Dallas when we met her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't matter if I like her or not."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, it does," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I don't like her, then we just let Olaf butcher her, is that it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He saved your life. He saved mine. We don't owe this woman anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I looked at him, trying to read his face from just the profile. "Are you saying that you won't back me on this, Bernardo? Because if you're not on my side on this, then I need to know because if we go up against Olaf, and you hesitate, then you're going to get yourself killed, and maybe me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I go in, I'll go in ready to kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If?" I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I owe him my life, Anita. While we were at Riker's, we saved each other's lives. We counted on each other and knew the other one would be there. I don't owe this Dallas chick anything."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Then stay in the car." A thought occurred to me. "Or are you saying that you're on his side, really on his side?" I had the Browning out in my hand already. I clicked the safety off, and he heard it. I saw him stiffen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's not fair. If I take my left hand off to pull a gun, then we wreck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't like the way the conversation was going," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All I'm saying, Anita, is that if we can save Dallas and let Olaf get away we should let him go. It'd make things even between us all."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If Dallas is unharmed, I'll think about it. That's the best I can do. But let me remind you if you plan on killing me to help Olaf that Edward is going to live. He'd hunt you both down, and you know it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey, I never said anything about pulling down on you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just trying to test the limits of our misunderstanding, Bernardo, because trust me, you don't want me to misunderstand you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no misunderstanding," Bernardo said, and there was no teasing in his voice, just a dry seriousness that reminded me of Edward. "I think it's shitty to turn Olaf in to the cops."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They'll already be there, Bernardo."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If there's only two uniforms, we can help him get away."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you talking about killing the policemen?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't say that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't. Don't go there because not only will I not follow you, I'll bury you there."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For two cops you don't even know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, for two cops I don't even know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why?" he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "Bernardo, if you have to ask that, you wouldn't understand the answer."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced at me. "Edward said that you were one of the best shooters he'd seen, quick to kill. He said you only had two faults. You got too up close and personal with the monsters, and you thought too much like an honest cop."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"An honest cop, I like that," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've seen you, Anita. You're as much a killer as Olaf, or me. You're not a cop. You never were."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Whatever I am, we are not killing the cops on sight. If Dallas is unhurt, we'll discuss letting Olaf go, but if he's hurt her, then he pays. If you don't like the plan, then give up your weapons and wait in the car. I'll go in alone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me. "What's to keep me from lying to you, keeping my guns, and shooting you in the back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're more afraid of Edward than you are grateful to Olaf."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know that for a fact," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know that Olaf has more rules of honor than you do. If you'd really felt all that damn grateful you'd have said something before I called the cops. Being protective of Olaf wasn't your first thought, or your second, or even your third."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Edward said you were one of the most loyal people he'd ever met. So why aren't you protecting Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He preys on women, Bernardo. He preys on them not because he's paid to or owes them vengeance, but because that's what he does. He's like a vicious dog that keeps attacking people. Eventually, you have to put it down."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're going in there planning to kill him," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, no I'm not. Remember, if I kill either of you, I'll either owe Edward another favor, or I'll have to draw a gun on him and finally find out which of us is better. I don't think I'll survive the latter, and I have not had a good time honoring Edward's favor. I got a glimpse of his other life at Riker's place. I don't want to be in another firefight. It's not my cup of tea."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not anyone's cup of tea," Bernardo said. "You just get used to it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't get used to shit like that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like you don't get used to cutting out people's hearts? You did that like an old pro."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged, "Practice makes perfect."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is the street," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The street had that just past dawn silence. The cars still sat unmoved in their driveways, but there were people standing in their driveways peering out at the marked police car that was sitting in front of Dallas's house. One of the doors was open, filling the quiet neighborhood with the radio squawk. The lights rotated pale and underdone like a child's toy in the heavy morning light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Professor Dallas's house was a small ranch with those faux adobe walls that everyone was so fond of here. In the earlier morning light it looked almost golden, as if it glowed. Bernardo parked by the road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well?" I asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm with you." But before we could draw guns, the two uniforms came out of the house with Dallas in a robe. We sat there staring at her, smiling at the policemen while they apologized for bothering her. She looked up, noticed us. She looked puzzled but waved at us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anita, look at the mailbox," Bernardo said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our car was almost right in front of the mailbox. There was a white envelope pinned to the front of the mailbox with a knife. My first name was printed in block letters on the front of the envelope. No one had noticed it yet, but us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward's car was tall enough to hide it from the neighbors. "Can you help me hide it from the cops?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My pleasure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I got out of the car, leaving the Browning on the seat because I couldn't figure out a way to put it down my pants without the police noticing me doing it, and I didn't have any ID on me. I might be able to fake being a Fed, but then again maybe not. And it's it a federal offense to impersonate a federal agent. Bernardo and I had assaulted a police officer. We didn't need any more charges.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo pulled the knife out, making the movement look natural. The envelope dropped into my hand, and I walked up to the house hitting my thigh with the envelope, as if I'd carried it from the car.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither of the cops yelled, "Halt, thief!" so I kept moving. I didn't know what Bernardo had done with the knife. It had just vanished. "Hi, Dallas, what's up?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Someone made a prank phone call about screams coming from my house."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who'd do such a dastardly thing?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I frowned at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled at me, pleased with himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did you get a call, too?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I got it," Bernardo said. "They called Edward's cell phone, said you were in danger."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniform cops made the same mistake that the hospital staff had made. They introduced themselves by rank and name, and shook hands. I said, "Anita Blake. This is Bernardo Spotted-Horse."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's not a ... " the policeman looked uncomfortable as soon as he started to say it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not a federal agent," Bernardo said. There was bitterness in his voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's the hair," I said. "They've never seen a male agent with long hair."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure, it was the hair."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The uniforms went off, leaving us at Dallas' doorstep in the morning light with her curious neighbors coming out in drips and drabs to see what was happening at an hour past dawn on the quiet street.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you like to come inside? I already started coffee."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo looked at me, but followed me in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kitchen was small, square, and neat like one that wasn't used much. But it was cheerful in a blaze of morning sunlight. "What's really going on, Anita?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sat down at her table and opened the envelope with my name on it. It was written in block letters.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">ANITA,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I KNEW THAT MOMENT IN THE CAVE THAT YOU WOULD THINK AS I DID. I FELT THAT YOU WOULD KNOW WHERE I WOULD GO TO HUNT. NOW HERE YOU ARE. I AM NEARBY.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">That made me look up. "He says he's nearby."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo drew his gun. He stood and began to watch the windows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went back to the note.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE WATCHED YOU COME TO THE GOOD PROFESSOR'S RESCUE. I WATCHED YOU TAKE THE ENVELOPE, AND I KNOW YOU ARE READING IT NOW. I BELITTLED EDWARD WHEN HE SPOKE OF SOUL MATES. I OWE HIM AN APOLOGY. WHEN I SAW YOU TAKE HIS HEART, SO PRACTICED, I KNEW THAT YOU WERE AS I AM. HOW MANY HAVE YOU KILLED? HOW MANY HEARTS HAVE YOU RIPPED OUT? HOW MANY HEADS HAVE YOU TAKEN? YOU'LL ARGUE WITH YOURSELF THAT YOU ARE NOT AS I AM. MAYBE YOU DON'T TAKE TROPHIES, BUT YOU STILL LIVE FOR THE KILL, ANITA. YOU WOULD WITHER AND DIE WITHOUT THE VIOLENCE. WHAT TRICK OF FATE HAS MADE YOU PHYSICALLY THE WOMAN I KILL OVER AND OVER AGAIN, AND YET PUT INSIDE THAT TINY BODY THE OTHER HALF OF MY SOUL? ARE MOST OF THE VAMPIRES YOU KILL MEN? DO YOU HAVE YOUR VICTIM PREFERENCE, ANITA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I WOULD LOVE TO HUNT WITH YOU AT MY SIDE. I WOULD HUNT YOUR VICTIMS BECAUSE I KNOW YOU WILL NOT HUNT MINE. BUT WE WOULD STILL KILL TOGETHER AND CUT THE BODIES UP, AND THAT WOULD BE MORE THAN I EVER DREAMED OF SHARING WITH A WOMAN.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The note wasn't signed. Big surprise there, since I might have given it to the police.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You look pale," Dallas said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What does the note say?" Bernardo asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I handed it to him. "I don't think he's out there to kill us or even her."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Who are you talking about?" she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told her, and she laughed at me. "You know I'm a vampire executioner."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I killed another vamp last night. One I think that Itzpapalotl wanted me to kill. She helped me do it. That's the heart that I took."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo read faster than I would have thought, "Jesus, Anita, Olaf has a crush on you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A crush," I said, "a crush. God, there's got to be another word for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dallas asked, "Can I read it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I think you should because he didn't wait just to catch a glimpse of me. He waited because if I hadn't shown up, he'd have come in here and butchered you."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tried to laugh it off, but there must have been something in my face that choked the laughter and made her reach a shaking hand out for the letter. She read it and said, "Who is this?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But he was so nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bernardo made a harsh sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Trust me on this, Dallas. Olaf is not nice."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked from one to the other of us. "You're not kidding, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He's a serial killer. I just don't think he's ever killed in this country."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You should turn him in to the police," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't have any proof of what he's done."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides," Bernardo said, "what if he was one of the vamps?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?" Dallas asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He means wouldn't you protect one of the vamps from the police because you'd know that the vamps would take care of it," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, yes, I guess."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And we'll take care of this," Bernardo said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked from one to the other of us, and for the first time she looked afraid.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Will he be back?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"For you, I don't think so," Bernardo said. He looked at me. "But I bet he'll find a reason to come to St. Louis."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd have liked to say he was wrong, but the cold tight feeling in my stomach agreed with Bernardo. I'd be seeing Olaf again. I just had to decide what I'd do when I met him. He hadn't done anything wrong on this trip. Not only couldn't I prove he was a serial killer, he hadn't done anything worse than I'd done this time round. Who was I to throw stones? Yet, yet, I hoped he stayed away from me. For more reasons than I wanted to admit, maybe. Maybe for the same reasons that I'd kill him if he came. Because maybe there was some truth to what he wrote. I had over fifty kills. What really separated me from people like Olaf? Motive, method? If those were the only differences, then Olaf was right, and I couldn't let him be right. I just could not accept that. Growing up to be Edward was a problem. Growing up to be Olaf was a nightmare.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
   

<div class="calibre10"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_67" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36495619" class="calibre7"></a><a name="TOC_id36495621" class="calibre7"></a>     EPILOGUE
     <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre8"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MARKS TRIED TO PRESS assault charges, but Bernardo and I said we didn't know what he was talking about. Doctor Evans said that his injuries were inconsistent with being hit by a person. It wouldn't have worked except that Marks was in the doghouse about how he'd handled the case. He was in on the press conference where the public was assured that the danger was over, but Ramirez was standing up there beside him, along with Agent Bradford. And me. They put Ted and Bernardo up there, too. We didn't get to answer questions, but we got our picture in the papers. I'd have rather not, but I knew it would please Bert, my boss, and they did print it in several national papers that I was Anita Blake of Animators, Inc. Bert loved it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward caught a secondary infection from something that had been smeared on the stake. He took a relapse, and I stayed. Donna and I took turns sitting by his bed. Sitting by Becca's bed. It got to the point where the little girl cried when I left.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Peter spent a lot of time playing games with her, trying to get her to smile. But his eyes had that hollow look you get when you're not sleeping well. He wouldn't talk to me or Donna. The only thing he'd admitted to her was the beating. He hadn't told her about the rape. I didn't betray his secret. First, I wasn't sure she could handle another shock. Second, it wasn't my secret to tell. Donna actually rose to the occasion. She was like this incredible pillar of strength for the kids, for Ted, even though he couldn't hear her talking to him. She never once turned to me in tears. It was like this new person had risen from the ashes of the person I'd first met. It saved me having to hurt her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ten days after the accident, Edward was awake and talking. Out of danger. I could finally go home. When I told them I was finally going home, Donna hugged me tight and cried and said, "You have to tell the kids good-bye."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I assured her I would, and she left us alone, to say our good-byes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I pulled the chair up to the bedside and studied his face. He was still pale, but he looked like Edward again. That cold bleakness was back in his eyes when no one but me was looking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It couldn't just be because you nearly died," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I smiled, but he didn't smile back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bernardo came to see me, but Olaf never did," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I realized then what he thought I'd waited around to tell him. "You think I killed Olaf, and I've been waiting for you to get healthy enough to give you the same choice you gave me after Harley died," I laughed. "Sweet Jesus, Edward."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You didn't kill him." I watched him relax against his pillow, visibly relieved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I didn't kill him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He managed a faint smile. "It wouldn't have been the same choice. But if you'd killed Olaf, you wouldn't have wanted to owe me another favor."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You were afraid I'd press the point, make it the gunfight at the OK Corral?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought you wanted to see which of us was better."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought I was dying on the stairs. All I could think of was that Peter and Becca were going to die in there with me. Bernardo and Olaf were there, but you'd gone up the stairs and hadn't come back. When you came back around that corner, I knew you'd get the kids out. I knew you'd risk your life for theirs. Bernardo and Olaf would have tried, but the kids wouldn't have been their first priority. I knew they would be yours. When I passed out in the cave, I wasn't worried. I knew you'd see it right."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What are you saying, Edward?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I'm saying if you had killed Olaf, I'd have given you a pass on it because Peter and Becca mean more to me than that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I took Olaf's letter out of my back pocket and handed it to him. He read it while I watched his face. Nothing moved but his eyes. He had no reaction. "He's a good man at your back, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not suggesting I date Olaf?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He almost laughed. "No, fuck no. Stay as far away from him as you can. If he comes to St. Louis, kill him. Don't wait for him to deserve it. Just do it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I thought he was your friend."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not friend. Business associate. It's not the same thing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I agree someone needs to kill Olaf, but why are you so adamant all of a sudden? You trusted him enough to bring him here to your town."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Olaf has never had a girlfriend. He's had whores and he's had victims. Maybe it's true love, but I think if he shows up and finds that you won't be his little serial killer pin-up girl, that he'll turn violent. You don't want to know what he's like when he's violent, Anita. You really, really don't."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're scared he'll come after me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If he shows in town, call me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I nodded. "I will." I had other questions. "Riker's house sprang a mysterious gas leak and blew to Kingdom Come. No survivors, no bodies, no evidence that we did shit, or that Riker and his men did shit. Was it Van Cleef?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not him personally," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know the next question," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're not going to tell me, are you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't tell you, Anita. One of the conditions to leaving was to never talk about it with anyone. If I break that, they'll come after me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't tell anyone."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shook his head. "No, Anita, trust me on this one. Ignorance is bliss."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That is incredibly frustrating," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled. "I know, and I'm sorry."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, you're not. You love keeping secrets."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not this one," he said. There was something close to sadness in his eyes, and for the first time I realized for sure that once there had been a kinder, gentler version of Edward. He hadn't been born this way. He'd been made like Frankenstein's monster.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No answers, huh?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other, but neither of us seemed impatient.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay, what?" he asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "You won't answer questions about your background, fine. Answer another one. Are you going to marry Donna?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"If I say, yes, what will you do?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I sighed. "I was willing to kill you to keep you away from them when I got here. But what is love, Edward? You're willing to give up your life for the kids. You'd do the same for Donna. She's convinced you're her dream man. It's a good act. Becca told her what you did, what we did. Peter backed it. So in a way they all three know what you are, who you are. Donna's cool with it." I stopped talking.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Was there an answer to my question in there somewhere?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I won't do anything, Edward. You're willing to die for them. If that's not love, it's so close I can't tell the difference."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. "Nice that I have your blessing."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You don't," I said. "But I don't have room to throw stones at your personal life. So do whatever you want."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I will," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Peter hasn't told Donna what happened to him. He needs therapy for it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you tell her?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not my secret to tell. Besides, you're his would-be stepfather, and you know. I trust you to do the right thing by him, Edward. If he doesn't want Donna to know, you'll find a way around it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're treating me like his father," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How much did you see of what Peter did to Amanda?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Enough," Edward said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He emptied the clip into her, Edward. He turned her face into spaghetti. The look in his face ... " I shook my head. "He's more your son than Donna's and has been since he blew away his father's killer when he was eight."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think he's like me?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Like us," I said, "like us. I don't know if you can rebuild someone that got that broken that early. I'm not a psychiatrist. Healing people's not my job."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not mine either," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I never thought you missed the pieces of yourself that you gave up to be who and what you are, but when I see you with Donna and Becca and Peter, I see regret in you. You wonder what life might have been like if you hadn't met Van Cleef, or whoever the hell was first."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at me, eyescold "It took me a long time to understand what I saw in Donna. How did you know?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "Maybe, the same thing I thought saw in Ramirez."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's not too late for you, Anita."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's too late for me to have the white picket fence, Edward. Maybe I can figure out something, but not that. It's too late for that."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think I'll fail with Donna," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I don't know. I just know it wouldn't work for me. I'm not the actor you are. Whoever I'm with has to know who I am, warts and all, or it won't work."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You know which monster you're going to settle down with?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, but I know I can't keep hiding from them. Hiding from them is like hiding from who I am. I'm not going to do that anymore."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You think I'm running from myself by going with Donna."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No, I think you always embraced the monster part of you. You're finding for the first time that not all of you is dead as you wanted it to be. Donna appeals to a part of you that you didn't know was left"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes," he said. "And what do Richard and Jean-Claude represent for you?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, but it's time I found out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled, but it wasn't a happy smile. "Good luck."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The same to you," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going to need it," he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd have liked to argue, but he was right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I did call Itzpapalotl before I left for home. She was disappointed that I didn't come in person, but not angry. I think she knew why I didn't want to shake hands again. She'd killed every minion of every rival vamp that crossed her path for fifty years, but me she hadn't harmed a hair on my head. I thought she wanted the secret to the triumvirate, and that had interested her, but that hadn't been what saved me. She'd set me up to kill the Red Woman's Husband. She'd given me the power to both attract him and withstand his charms. I'd been her bait and her weapon. Now the other god was dead, and I was leaving her territory before she decided that I'd outlived my usefulness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She extended an invitation to my master. "We could have much to discuss, your master and I."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I told her I'd pass along the invitation. I will, but they'll be ice skating in hell before I bring Jean-Claude down to meet Itzpapalotl. She'd gobble him up. Maybe Edward's right. Maybe Richard and I would survive Jean-Claude's death. But surviving his death and surviving whatever Itzpapalotl would do to him are two very different things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There are so many easier ways to kill Jean-Claude. Ways that would be less risky to Richard and me. I know that's what Edward wants me to do. Several of my friends are voting that way. But I get presidential veto, and I don't want him dead. I'm not sure what I do want, but I know I want him walking around so I can decide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm going home, and I'm going to start by seeing all the friends I've neglected for the past few months. So Ronnie is dating Richard's best friend. So what? She and I can still be friends. Catherine's had two years of honeymooning. Time I stopped using that as an excuse not to see her. I think I'm just uncomfortable with how terribly happy she is with a man that I found ordinary and a little boring. But she glows around him. I haven't done much glowing lately around either of my two men.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm going to start seeing the werewolves in Richard's pack again, and Jean-Claude's vamps. First renew friendships, then if that works out okay, I'll see the boys. It's a cautious plan, nah cowardly, but it's the best I can do. Okay, it's the best I'm willing to do. Because the truth is that I am no closer to a solution to my love life than I was when I broke off with them over a year ago. The few times I fell off the celibacy wagon don't count because I was still trying to avoid them. I don't want to avoid them. I just want to know what exactly it is that I do want. Once I figure out what I want, who I want, the next question is can I have who I want or will the loser pull our little house down around us in bloody ruins. I would say it's the sixty-four thousand dollar question, but Richard and Jean-Claude are worth so much more than that to me. Maybe Ramirez is right. Maybe if I truly loved one of them, the choice would be easy. Or maybe Ramirez doesn't know what the hell he's talking about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward loves Donna and Peter and Becca. They're all seeing a therapist together, but I think Peter is still lying about what really happened. You can't get good therapy if you lie to your therapist. But I think Peter is counting on Edward to be his therapist. Scary thought, isn't it?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edward loves Donna. Do I love Richard? Yes. Do I love Jean-Claude? Maybe. If it's really yes for Richard, and maybe for Jean-Claude, then why don't I have my answer? Because maybe, just maybe, there is no one right answer. I'm beginning to worry that whatever I decide, I will be left mourning the one that got away. Once, I'd been afraid if I chose Richard that Jean-Claude would kill him rather than share me, but strangely the vampire seems willing to share, and Richard isn't. Maybe Jean-Claude loves the power of the triumvirate more than he loves me, or maybe Richard is just jealous. I certainly wouldn't share either of them with another woman. Fair is fair. Which brings me back to the original question: who is the love of my life? Maybe I don't have one. Maybe it's not love at all. But if it's not love, then what is it? I wish I knew.</div>
   <br class="calibre8"/>
  
 


</div>

{% endraw %}

