---
layout: page
title: "Mort"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-mort_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<div class="calibre1"><h3 class="calibre2">Annotation</h3>
        <div class="paragraph">In this Discworld installment, Death comes to Mort with an offer he can't refuse — especially since being, well, dead isn't compulsory. As Death's apprentice, he'll have free board and lodging, use of the company horse, and he won't need time off for family funerals. The position is everything Mort thought he'd ever wanted, until he discovers that this perfect job can be a killer on his love life.</div>
      </div><hr class="calibre3"/><ul class="calibre4"><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36216863">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre6"><li class="calibre5"></li></ul></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374674">notes</a><ul class="calibre6"><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374684">1</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374699">2</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374723">3</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374738">4</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374789">5</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374810">6</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374832">7</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374848">8</a></li><li class="calibre5"><a href="#TOC_id36374870">9</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre3"/>
    <h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre7">
      Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre8"/>
      Mort <br class="calibre8"/>
    </h1>
    <div id="TOC_id36216874" class="calibre1"></div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is the bright candlelit room where the life-timers are stored — shelf upon shelf of them, squat hourglasses, one for every living person, pouring their fine sand from the future into the past. The accumulated hiss of the falling grains makes the room roar like the sea.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is the owner of the room, stalking through it with a preoccupied air. His name is Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But not any Death. This is the Death whose particular sphere of operations is, well, not a sphere at all, but the Discworld, which is flat and rides on the back of four giant elephants who stand on the shell of the enormous star turtle Great A'Tuin, and which is bounded by a waterfall that cascades endlessly into space.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Scientists have calculated that the chance of anything so patently absurd actually existing are millions to one.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But magicians have calculated that million-to-one chances crop up nine times out of ten.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death clicks across the black and white tiled floor on toes of bone, muttering inside his cowl as his skeletal fingers count along the rows of busy hourglasses.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finally he finds one that seems to satisfy him, lifts it carefully from its shelf and carries it across to the nearest candle. He holds it so that the light glints off it, and stares at the little point of reflected brilliance.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The steady gaze from those twinkling eye-sockets encompasses the world turtle, sculling through the deeps of space, carapace scarred by comets and pitted by meteors. One day even Great A'Tuin will die, Death knows; now, that <em class="calibre9">would</em> be a challenge.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But the focus of his gaze dives onwards towards the blue-green magnificence of the Disc itself, turning slowly under its tiny orbiting sun.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now it curves away towards the great mountain range called the Ramtops. The Ramtops are full of deep valleys and unexpected crags and considerably more geography than they know what to do with. They have their own peculiar weather, full of shrapnel rain and whiplash winds and permanent thunder-storms. Some people say it's all because the Ramtops are the home of old, wild magic. Mind you, some people will say anything.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death blinks, adjusts for depth of vision. Now he sees the grassy country on the turnwise slopes of the mountains.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now he sees a particular hillside.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now he sees a field.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now he sees a boy, running.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now he watches.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now, in a voice like lead slabs being dropped on granite, he says: YES.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was no doubt that there was something magical in the soil of that hilly, broken area which — because of the strange tint that it gave to the local flora — was known as the octarine grass country. For example, it was one of the few places on the Disc where plants produced reannual varieties.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Reannuals are plants that grow backwards in time. You sow the seed this year and they grow last year.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's family specialized in distilling the wine from reannual grapes. These were very powerful and much sought after by fortune-tellers, since of course they enabled them to see the future. The only snag was that you got the hangover the morning <em class="calibre9">before,</em> and had to drink a lot to get over it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Reannual growers tended to be big, serious men, much given to introspection and close examination of the calendar. A farmer who neglects to sow ordinary seeds only loses the crop, whereas anyone who forgets to sow seeds of a crop that has already been harvested twelve months before risks disturbing the entire fabric of causality, not to mention acute embarrassment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was also acutely embarrassing to Mort's family that the youngest son was not at all serious and had about the same talent for horticulture that you would find in a dead starfish. It wasn't that he was unhelpful, but he had the land of vague, cheerful helpfulness that serious men soon learn to dread. There was something infectious, possibly even fatal, about it. He was tall, red-haired and freckled, with the sort of body that seems to be only marginally under its owner's control; it appeared to have been built out of knees.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>On this particular day it was hurtling across the high fields, waving its hands and yelling.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's father and uncle watched it disconsolately from the stone wall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What I don't understand,' said father Lezek, 'is that the birds don't even fly away. I'd fly away, if I saw it coining towards me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. The human body's a wonderful thing. I mean, his legs go all over the place but there's a fair turn of speed there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort reached the end of a furrow. An overfull woodpigeon lurched slowly out of his way.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'His heart's in the right place, mind,' said Lezek, carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. 'Course, 'tis the rest of him that isn't.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's clean about the house. Doesn't eat much,' said Lezek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, I can see that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek looked sideways at his brother, who was staring fixedly at the sky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I did hear you'd got a place going up at your farm, Hamesh,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. Got an apprentice in, didn't I?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' said Lezek gloomily, 'when was that, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yesterday,' said his brother, lying with rattlesnake speed. 'All signed and sealed. Sorry. Look, I got nothing against young Mort, see, he's as nice a boy as you could wish to meet, it's just that —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know, I know,' said Lezek. 'He couldn't find his arse with both hands.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They stared at the distant figure. It had fallen over. Some pigeons had waddled over to inspect it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's not stupid, mind,' said Hamesh. 'Not what you'd call stupid.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's a brain there all right,' Lezek conceded. 'Sometimes he starts thinking so hard you has to hit him round the head to get his attention. His granny taught him to read, see. I reckon it overheated his mind.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had got up and tripped over his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You ought to set him to a trade,' said Hamesh, reflectively. 'The priesthood, maybe. Or wizardry. They do a lot of reading, wizards.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They looked at each other. Into both their minds stole an inkling of what Mort might be capable of if he got his well-meaning hands on a book of magic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right,' said Hamesh hurriedly. 'Something else, then. There must be lots of things he could turn his hand to.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He starts thinking too much, that's the trouble,' said Lezek. 'Look at him now. You don't think about how to scare birds, you just does it. A normal boy, I mean.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Hamesh scratched his chin thoughtfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It could be someone else's problem,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek's expression did not alter, but there was a subtle change around his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do you mean?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's the hiring fair at Sheepridge next week. You set him as a 'prentice, see, and his new master'll have the job of knocking him into shape. 'Tis the law. Get him indentured, and 'tis binding.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek looked across the field at his son, who was examining a rock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wouldn't want anything to happen to him, mind,' he said doubtfully. 'We're quite fond of him, his mother and me. You get used to people.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It'd be for his own good, you'll see. Make a man of him.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. Well. There's certainly plenty of raw material,' sighed Lezek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was getting interested in the rock. It had curly shells in it, relics of the early days of the world when the Creator had made creatures out of stone, no-one knew why.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was interested in lots of things. Why people's teeth fitted together so neatly, for example. He'd given that one a lot of thought. Then there was the puzzle of why the sun came out during the day, instead of at night when the light would come in useful. He knew the standard explanation, which somehow didn't seem satisfying.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In short, Mort was one of those people who are more dangerous than a bag full of rattlesnakes. He was determined to discover the underlying logic behind the universe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Which was going to be hard, because there wasn't one. The Creator had a lot of remarkably good ideas when he put the world together, but making it understandable hadn't been one of them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Tragic heroes always moan when the gods take an interest in them, but it's the people the gods ignore who get the really tough deals.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His father was yelling at him, as usual. Mort threw the rock at a pigeon, which was almost too full to lurch out of the way, and wandered back across the field.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And that was why Mort and his father walked down through the mountains into Sheepridge on Hogswatch Eve, with Mort's rather sparse possessions in a sack on the back of a donkey. The town wasn't much more than four sides to a cobbled square, lined with shops that provided all the service industry of the farming community.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After five minutes Mort came out of the tailors wearing a loose fitting brown garment of imprecise function, which had been understandably unclaimed by a previous owner and had plenty of room for him to grow, on the assumption that he would grow into a nineteen-legged elephant.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His father regarded him critically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Very nice,' he said, 'for the money.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It itches,' said Mort. 'I think there's <em class="calibre9">things</em> in here with me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There's thousands of lads in the world'd be very thankful for a nice warm —' Lezek paused, and gave up — 'garment like that, my lad.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I could share it with them?' Mort said hopefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You've got to look smart,' said Lezek severely. 'You've got to make an impression, stand out in the crowd.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was no doubt about it. He would. They set out among the throng crowding the square, each listening to his own thoughts. Usually Mort enjoyed visiting the town, with its cosmopolitan atmosphere and strange dialects from villages as far away as five, even ten miles, but this time he felt unpleasantly apprehensive, as if he could remember something that hadn't happened yet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The fair seemed to work like this: men looking for work stood in ragged lines in the centre of the square. Many of them sported little symbols in their hats to tell the world the kind of work they were trained in — shepherds wore a wisp of wool, carters a hank of horsehair, interior decorators a strip of rather interesting hessian wallcovering, and so on.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The boys seeking apprenticeships were clustered on the Hub side of the square.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You just go and stand there, and someone comes and offers you an apprenticeship,' said Lezek, his voice trimmed with uncertainty. 'If they like the look of you, that is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do they do that?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well,' said Lezek, and paused. Hamesh hadn't explained about this bit. He drew on his limited knowledge of the marketplace, which was restricted to livestock sales, and ventured, 'I suppose they count your teeth and that. And make sure you don't wheeze and your feet are all right. I shouldn't let on about the reading, it unsettles people.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And then what?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Then you go and learn a trade,' said Lezek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What trade in particular?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well ... carpentry is a good one,' Lezek hazarded. 'Or thievery. Someone's got to do it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked at his feet. He was a dutiful son, when he remembered, and if being an apprentice was what was expected of him then he was determined to be a good one. Carpentry didn't sound very promising, though — wood had a stubborn life of its own, and a tendency to split. And official thieves were rare in the Ramtops, where people weren't rich enough to afford them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right,' he said eventually, 'I'll go and give it a try. But what happens if I don't get prenticed?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek scratched his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know,' he said. 'I expect you just wait until the end of the fair. At midnight. I suppose.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And now midnight approached.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A light frost began to crisp the cobblestones. In the ornamental clock tower that overlooked the square a couple of delicately-carved little automatons whirred out of trapdoors in the clockface and struck the quarter hour.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Fifteen minutes to midnight. Mort shivered, but the crimson fires of shame and stubbornness flared up inside him, hotter than the slopes of Hell. He blew on his fingers for something to do and stared up at the freezing sky, trying to avoid the stares of the few stragglers among what remained of the fair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Most of the stall keepers had packed up and gone. Even the hot meat pie man had stopped crying his wares and, with no regard for personal safety, was eating one.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The last of Mort's fellow hopefuls had vanished hours ago. He was a wall-eyed young man with a stoop and a running nose, and Sheepridge's one licensed beggar had pronounced him to be ideal material. The lad on the other side of Mort had gone off to be a toy maker. One by one they had trooped off — the masons, the farriers, the assassins, the mercers, coopers, hoodwinkers and ploughmen. In a few minutes it would be the new year and a hundred boys would be starting out hopefully on their careers, new worthwhile lives of useful service rolling out in front of them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort wondered miserably why he hadn't been picked. He'd tried to look respectable, and had looked all prospective masters squarely in the eye to impress them with his excellent nature and extremely likeable qualities. This didn't seem to have the right effect.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Would you like a hot meat pie?' said his father.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's selling them cheap.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. Thank you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek hesitated.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I could ask the man if he wants an apprentice,' he said, helpfully. 'Very reliable, the catering trade.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think he does,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, probably not,' said Lezek. 'Bit of a one-man business, I expect. He's gone now, anyway. Tell you what, I'll save you a bit of mine.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't actually feel very hungry, dad.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's hardly any gristle.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. But thanks all the same.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Lezek deflated a little. He danced about a bit to stamp some life back into his feet, and whistled a few tuneless bars between his teeth. He felt he ought to say something, to offer some kind of advice, to point out that life had its ups and downs, to put his arm around his son's shoulder and talk expansively about the problems of growing up, to indicate — in short — that the world is a funny old lace where one should never, metaphorically speaking, be so proud as to turn down the offer of a perfectly good hot meat pie.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They were alone now. The frost, the last one of the year, tightened its grip on the stones.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>High in the tower above them a cogged wheel went <em class="calibre9">clonk</em>, tripped a lever, released a ratchet and let a heavy lead weight drop down. There was a dreadful metallic wheezing noise and the trapdoors in the clock face slid open, releasing the clockwork men. Swinging their hammers jerkily, as if they were afflicted with robotic arthritis, they began to ring in the new day.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, that's it,' said Lezek, hopefully. They'd have to find somewhere to sleep — Hogswatch-night was no time to be walking in the mountains. Perhaps there was a stable somewhere. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's not midnight until the last stroke,' said Mort, distantly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek shrugged. The sheer strength of Mort's obstinacy was defeating him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right,' he said. 'We'll wait, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And then they heard the clip-clop of hooves, which boomed rather more loudly around the chilly square than common acoustics should really allow. In fact clip-clop was an astonishingly inaccurate word for the kind of noise which rattled around Mort's head; clip-clop suggested a rather jolly little pony, quite possibly wearing a straw hat with holes cut out for its ears. An edge to <em class="calibre9">this</em> sound made it very clear that straw hats weren't an option.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The horse entered the square by the Hub road, steam curling off its huge damp white flanks and sparks striking up from the cobbles beneath it. It trotted proudly, like a war charger. It was definitely not wearing a straw hat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The tall figure on its back was wrapped up against the cold. When the horse reached the centre of the square the rider dismounted, slowly, and fumbled with something behind the saddle. Eventually he — or she — produced a nosebag, fastened it over the horse's ears, and gave it a friendly pat on the neck.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The air took on a thick, greasy feel, and the deep shadows around Mort became edged with blue and purple rainbows. The rider strode towards him, black cloak billowing and feet making little clicking sounds on the cobbles. They were the only noises — silence clamped down on the square like great drifts of cotton wool.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The impressive effect was rather spoilt by a patch of ice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>OH, BUGGER</span>
        </em>
        <span>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It wasn't exactly a voice. The words were there all right, but they arrived in Mort's head without bothering to pass through his ears.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He rushed forward to help the fallen figure, and found himself grabbing hold of a hand that was nothing more than polished bone, smooth and rather yellowed like an old billiard ball. The figure's hood fell back, and a naked skull turned its empty eyesockets towards him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Not quite empty, though. Deep within them, as though they were windows looking across the gulfs of space, were two tiny blue stars.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It occurred to Mort that he ought to feel horrified, so he was slightly shocked to find that he wasn't. It was a skeleton sitting in front of him, rubbing its knees and grumbling, but it was a live one, curiously impressive but not, for some strange reason, very frightening.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THANK YOU, BOY</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said the skull. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WHAT IS YOUR NAME?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Uh,' said Mort, 'Mortimer . . . sir. They call me Mort.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WHAT A COINCIDENCE,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said the skull. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>HELP ME UP, PLEASE.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The figure rose unsteadily, brushing itself down. Now Mort could see there was a heavy belt around its waist, from which was slung a white-handled sword.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope you are not hurt, sir,' he said politely.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The skull grinned. Of course, Mort thought, it hasn't much of a choice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>NO HARM DONE, I AM SURE.</span>
        </em>
        <span> The skull looked around and seemed to see Lezek, who appeared to be frozen to the spot, for the first time. Mort thought an explanation was called for.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My father,' he said, trying to move protectively in front of Exhibit A without causing any offence. 'Excuse me, sir, but are you Death?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>CORRECT. FULL MARKS FOR OBSERVATION, THAT BOY.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swallowed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My father is a good man,' he said. He thought for a while, and added, 'Quite good. I'd rather you left him alone, if it's all the same to you. I don't know what you have done to him, but I'd like you to stop it. No offence meant.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stepped back, his skull on one side.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I HAVE MERELY PUT US OUTSIDE TIME FOR A MOMENT</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said</span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>. HE WILL SEE AND HEAR NOTHING THAT DISTURBS HIM. NO, BOY, IT WAS YOU I CAME FOR.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YOU ARE HERE SEEKING EMPLOYMENT?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Light dawned on Mort. 'You are looking for an <em class="calibre9">apprentice</em>?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The eyesockets turned towards him, their actinic pinpoints flaring.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>OF COURSE.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death waved a bony hand. There was a wash of purple light, a sort of visible 'pop', and Lezek unfroze. Above his head the clockwork automatons got on with the job of proclaiming midnight, as Time was allowed to come creeping back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek blinked.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Didn't see you there for a minute,' he said. 'Sorry — mind must have been elsewhere.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I WAS OFFERING YOUR BOY A POSITION,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I TRUST THAT MEETS WITH YOUR APPROVAL?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What was your job again?' said Lezek, talking to a black-robed skeleton without showing even a flicker of surprise.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I USHER SOULS INTO THE NEXT WORLD,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' said Lezek, 'of course, sorry, should have guessed from the clothes. Very necessary work, very steady. Established business?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I HAVE BEEN GOING FOR SOME TIME, YES,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good. Good. Never really thought of it as a job for Mort, you know, but it's good work, good work, always very reliable. What's your name?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>DEATH.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Dad —' said Mort urgently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can't say I recognize the firm,' said Lezek. 'Where are you based exactly?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>FROM THE UTTERMOST DEPTHS OF THE SEA TO THE HEIGHTS WHERE EVEN THE EAGLE MAY NOT GO</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's fair enough,' nodded Lezek. 'Well, I —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Dad —' said Mort, pulling at his father's coat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death laid a hand on Mort's shoulder.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WHAT YOUR FATHER SEES AND HEARS IS NOT WHAT YOU SEE AND HEAR, </span>
        </em>
        <span>he said</span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>. DO NOT WORRY HIM. DO YOU THINK HE WOULD WANT TO SEE ME — IN THE FLESH, AS IT WERE?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But you're Death,' said Mort. 'You go around killing people!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I? KILL?</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death, obviously offended. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>CERTAINLY NOT. PEOPLE GET KILLED, BUT THAT'S THEIR BUSINESS. I JUST TAKE OVER FROM THEN ON. AFTER ALL, IT'D BE A BLOODY STUPID WORLD IF PEOPLE GOT KILLED WITHOUT DYING, WOULDN'T IT?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, yes —' said Mort, doubtfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had never heard the word 'intrigued'. It was not in regular use in the family vocabulary. But a spark in his soul told him that here was something weird and fascinating and not entirely horrible, and that if he let this moment go he'd spend the rest of his life regretting it. And he remembered the humiliations of the day, and the long walk back home. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Er,' he began, 'I don't have to die to get the job, do I?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>BEING DEAD IS NOT COMPULSORY.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And ... the bones ...?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>NOT IF YOU DON'T WANT TO.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort breathed out again. It had been starting to prey on his mind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If father says it's all right,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They looked at Lezek, who was scratching his beard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do you feel about this, Mort?' he said, with the brittle brightness of a fever victim. 'It's not everyone's idea of an occupation. It's not what I had in mind, I admit. But they do say that undertaking is an honoured profession. It's your choice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Undertaking?' said Mort. Death nodded, and raised his finger to his lips in a conspiratorial gesture.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's interesting,' said Mort slowly. 'I think I'd like to try it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where did you say your business was?' said Lezek. 'Is it far?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>NO FURTHER THAN THE THICKNESS OF A SHADOW,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WHERE THE FIRST PRIMAL CELL WAS, THERE WAS I ALSO. WHERE MAN IS, THERE AM I. WHEN THE LAST LIFE CRAWLS UNDER FREEZING STARS, THERE WILL I BE.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' said Lezek, 'you get about a bit, then.' He looked puzzled, like a man struggling to remember something important, and then obviously gave up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death patted him on the shoulder in a friendly fashion and turned to Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>HAVE YOU ANY POSSESSIONS, BOY?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes,' said Mort, and then remembered. 'Only I think I left them in the shop. Dad, we left the sack in the clothes shop!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It'll be shut,' said Lezek. 'Shops don't open on Hogswatch Day. You'll have to go back the day after tomorrow — well, tomorrow now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>IT IS OF LITTLE ACCOUNT,</span>
        </em>
        <span> said Death. </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WE WILL LEAVE NOW. NO DOUBT I WILL HAVE BUSINESS HERE SOON ENOUGH.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope you'll be able to drop in and see us soon,' said Lezek. He seemed to be struggling with his thoughts.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm not sure that will be a good idea,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, goodbye, lad,' said Lezek. 'You're to do what you're told, you understand? And — excuse me, sir, do you have a son?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death looked rather taken aback.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>NO,</span>
        </em>
        <span> he said, </span>
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I HAVE NO SONS</span>
        </em>
        <span>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'll just have a last word with my boy, if you've no objection.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THEN I WILL GO AND SEE TO THE HORSE, </span>
        </em>
        <span>said Death, with more than normal tact.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek put his arm around his son's shoulders, with some difficulty in view of their difference in height, and gently propelled him across the square.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, you know your uncle Hemesh told me about this prenticing business?' he whispered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, he told me something else,' the old man confided. 'He said it's not unknown for an apprentice to inherit his master's business. What do you think of that, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Uh. I'm not sure,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's worth thinking about,' said Lezek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I <em class="calibre9">am</em> thinking about it, father.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Many a young lad has started out that way, Hemesh said. He makes himself useful, earns his master's confidence, and, well, if there's any daughters in the house . . . did Mr, er, Mr say anything about daughters?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mr who?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mr . . . your new master.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Him. No. No, I don't think so,' said Mort slowly. 'I don't think he's the marrying type.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Many a keen young man owes his advancement to his nuptials,' said Lezek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He does?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, I don't think you're really listening.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek came to a halt on the frosty cobbles and spun the boy around to face him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're really going to have to do better than this,' he said. 'Don't you understand, boy? If you're going to amount to anything in this world then you've got to <em class="calibre9">listen</em>. I'm your father telling you these things.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked down at his father's face. He wanted to say a lot of things: he wanted to say how much he loved him, how worried he was; he wanted to ask what his father really thought he'd just seen and heard. He wanted to say that he felt as though he stepped on a molehill and found that it was really a volcano. He wanted to ask what 'nuptials' meant.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>What he actually said was, 'Yes. Thank you. I'd better be going. I'll try and write you a letter.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's bound to be someone passing who can read it to us,' said Lezek. 'Goodbye, Mort.' He blew his nose.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Goodbye, dad. I'll come back to visit,' said Mort. Death coughed tactfully, although it sounded like the pistol-crack of an ancient beam full of death-watch beetle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WE HAD BETTER BE GOING</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said. <em class="calibre9">HOP UP, MORT</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As Mort scrambled behind the ornate silver saddle Death leaned down and shook Lezek's hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THANK YOU,</span>
        </em>
        <span> he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's a good lad at heart,' said Lezek. 'A bit dreamy, that's all. I suppose we were all young once.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death considered this.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>No, he said, <em class="calibre9">I DON'T THINK SO</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gathered up the reins and turned the horse towards the Rim road. From his perch behind the black-robed figure Mort waved desperately.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lezek waved back. Then, as the horse and its two riders disappeared from view, he lowered his hand and looked at it. The handshake . . . it had felt strange. But, somehow, he couldn't remember exactly why.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort listened to the clatter of stone under the horse's hooves. Then there was the soft thud of packed earth as they reached the road, and then there was nothing at all.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked down and saw the landscape spread out below him, the night etched with moonlight silver. If he fell off, the only thing he'd hit was air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He redoubled his grip on the saddle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then Death said, <em class="calibre9">ARE YOU HUNGRY, BOY?</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, sir.' The words came straight from his stomach without the intervention of his brain.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death nodded, and reined in the horse. It stood on the air, the great circular panorama of the Disc glittering below it. Here and there a city was an range glow; in the warm seas nearer the Rim there was a hint of phosphorescence. In some of the deep valleys the trapped daylight of the Disc, which is slow and slightly heavy<span><a href="#note_1" title="Practically anything can go faster than Disc light, which is lazy and tame, unlike ordinary light. The only thing known to go faster than ordinary light is monarchy, according to the philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle. He reasoned like this: you can't have more than one king, and tradition demands that there is no gap between kings, so when a king dies the succession must therefore pass to the heir instantaneously. Presumably, he said, there must be some elementary particles — kingons, or possibly queons — that do this job, but of course succession sometimes fails if, in mid-flight, they strike an anti-particle, or republicon. His ambitious plans to use his discovery to send messages, involving the careful torturing of a small king in order to modulate the signal, were never fully expounded because, at that point, the bar closed. "><sup class="calibre10">[1]</sup></a></span> was evaporating like silver steam.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But it was outshone by the glow that rose towards the stars from the Rim itself. Vast streamers of light shimmered and glittered across the night. Great golden walls surrounded the world.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's beautiful,' said Mort softly. 'What is it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THE SUN is UNDER THE DISK</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it like this every night?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>EVERY NIGHT</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death. <em class="calibre9">NATURE'S LIKE THAT.</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Doesn't anyone know?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>ME. You. THE GODS. GOOD, IS IT?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Gosh!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death leaned over the saddle and looked down at the kingdoms of the world.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said, <em class="calibre9">BUT I COULD MURDER A CURRY</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Although it was well after midnight the twin city of Ankh-Morpork was roaring with life. Mort had thought Sheepridge looked busy, but compared to the turmoil of the street around him the town was, well, a morgue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Poets have tried to describe Ankh-Morpork. They have failed. Perhaps it's the sheer zestful vitality of the place, or maybe it's just that a city with a million inhabitants and no sewers is rather robust for poets, who prefer daffodils and no wonder. So let's just say that Ankh-Morpork is as full of life as an old cheese on a hot day, as loud as a curse in a cathedral, as bright as an oil slick, as colourful as a bruise and as full of activity, industry, bustle and sheer exuberant busyness as a dead dog on a termite mound.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were temples, their doors wide open, filling the streets with the sounds of gongs, cymbals and, in the case of some of the more conservative fundamentalist religions, the brief screams of the victims. There were shops whose strange wares spilled out on to the pavement. There seemed to be rather a lot of friendly young ladies who couldn't afford many clothes. There were flares, and jugglers, and assorted sellers of instant transcendence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And Death stalked through it all. Mort had half expected him to pass through the crowds like smoke, but it wasn't like that at all. The simple truth was that wherever Death walked, people just drifted out of the way.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It didn't work like that for Mort. The crowds that gently parted for his new master closed again just in time to get in his way. His toes got trodden on, his ribs were bruised, people kept trying to sell him unpleasant spices and suggestively-shaped vegetables, and a rather elderly lady said, against all the evidence, that he looked a well set-up young lad who would like a nice tune.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He thanked her very much, and said that he hoped he was having a nice tune already.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death reached the street corner, the light from the flares raising brilliant highlights on the polished dome of his skull, and sniffed the air. A drunk staggered up, and without quite realizing why made a slight detour in his erratic passage for no visible reason. <em class="calibre9">THIS IS THE CITY, BOY</em>, said Death. <em class="calibre9">WHAT DO YOU THINK?</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's very big,' said Mort, uncertainly. 'I mean, why does everyone want to live all squeezed together like this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death shrugged.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I LIKE IT</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said. <em class="calibre9">IT'S FULL OF LIFE</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YES?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's a curry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The blue fires flared deep in the eyes of Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>HAVE YOU EVER BITTEN A RED-HOT ICE CUBE?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, sir,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>CURRY'S LIKE THAT</span>
        </em>
        <span>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YES?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swallowed hard. 'Excuse me, sir, but my dad said, if I don't understand, I was to ask questions, sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>VERY COMMENDABLE</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death. He set off down a side street, the crowds parting in front of him like random molecules.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, sir, I can't help noticing, the point is, well, the plain fact of it, sir, is —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>OUT WITH IT, BOY</span>
        </em>
        <span>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How can you eat things, sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death pulled up short, so that Mort walked into him. When the boy started to speak he waved him into silence. He appeared to be listening to something.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THERE ARE TIMES, YOU KNOW</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said, half to himself, <em class="calibre9">WHEN I GET REALLY UPSET</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned on one heel and set off down an alleyway at high speed, his cloak flying out behind him. The alley wound between dark walls and sleeping buildings, not so much a thoroughfare as a meandering gap.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stopped by a decrepit water butt and plunged his arm in at full length, bringing out a small sack with a brick tied to it. He drew his sword, a line of flickering blue fire in the darkness, and sliced through the string.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I GET VERY ANGRY INDEED</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said. He upended the sack and Mort watched the pathetic scraps of sodden fur slide out, to lie in their spreading puddle on the cobbles. Death reached out with his white fingers and stroked them gently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After a while something like grey smoke curled up from the kittens and formed three small cat-shaped clouds in the air. They billowed occasionally, unsure of their shape, and blinked at Mort with puzzled grey eyes. When he tried to touch one his hand went straight through it, and tingled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YOU DON'T SEE PEOPLE AT THEIR BEST IN THIS JOB</span>
        </em>
        <span>, aid Death. He blew on a kitten, sending it gently tumbling. Its miaow of complaint sounded as though it had come from a long way away via a tin tube.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They're souls, aren't they?' said Mort. 'What do people look like?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>PEOPLE SHAPED</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death. <em class="calibre9">IT'S BASICALLY ALL OWN TO THE CHARACTERISTIC MORPHOGENETIC FIELD.</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He sighed like the swish of a shroud, picked the kittens out of the air, and carefully stowed them away somewhere in the dark recesses of his robe. He stood up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>CURRY TIME</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was crowded in the <em class="calibre9">Curry Gardens</em> on the corner of God Street and Blood Alley, but only with the cream of society — at least, with those people who are found floating on the top and who, therefore, it's wisest to call the cream. Fragrant bushes planted among the tables nearly concealed the basic smell of the city itself, which has been likened to the nasal equivalent of a foghorn.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort ate ravenously, but curbed his curiosity and didn't watch to see how Death could possibly eat anything. The food was there to start with and wasn't there later, so presumably something must have happened in between. Mort got the feeling that Death wasn't really used to all this but was doing it to put him at his ease, like an elderly bachelor uncle who has been landed with his nephew for a holiday and is terrified of getting it wrong.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The other diners didn't take much notice, even when Death leaned back and lit a rather fine pipe. Someone with smoke curling out of their eye sockets takes some ignoring, but everyone managed it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it magic?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>WHAT DO YOU THINK</span>
        </em>
        <span>? said Death<em class="calibre9">. AM I REALLY HERE, BOY?</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes,' said Mort slowly. 'I . . . I've watched people. They look at you but they don't see you, I think. You do something to their minds.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death shook his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THEY DO IT ALL THEMSELVES</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said. <em class="calibre9">THERE'S NO MAGIC. PEOPLE CAN'T SEE ME, THEY SIMPLY WON'T ALLOW THEMSELVES TO DO IT. UNTIL IT'S TIME, OF COURSE. WIZARDS CAN SEE ME, AND CATS. BUT YOUR AVERAGE HUMAN . . . NO, NEVER. </em>He blew a smoke ring at the sky, and added, <em class="calibre9">STRANGE BUT TRUE.</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort watched the smoke ring wobble into the sky and drift away towards the river.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">I</em> can see you,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THAT'S DIFFERENT.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Klatchian waiter arrived with the bill, and placed it in front of Death. The man was squat and brown, with a hairstyle like a coconut gone nova, and his round face creased into a puzzled frown when Death nodded politely to him. He shook his head like someone trying to dislodge soap from his ears, and walked away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death reached into the depths of his robe and brought out a large leather bag full of assorted copper coinage, most of it blue and green with age. He inspected the bill carefully. Then he counted out a dozen coins.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>COME</span>
        </em>
        <span>, he said, standing up<em class="calibre9">. WE MUST GO.</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort trotted along behind him as he stalked out of the garden and into the street, which was still fairly busy even though there were the first suggestions of dawn on the horizon.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are we going to do now?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>BUY YOU SOME NEW CLOTHES</span>
        </em>
        <span>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'These were new today — yesterday, I mean.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>' REALLY?</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Father said the shop was famous for its budget clothing,' said Mort, running to keep up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>IT CERTAINLY ADDS A NEW TERROR TO POVERTY.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They turned into a wider street leading into a more affluent part of the city (the torches were closer together and the middens further apart). There were no stalls and alley corner traders here, but proper buildings with signs hanging outside. They weren't mere shops, they were emporia; they had purveyors in them, and chairs, and spittoons. Most of them were open even at this time of night, because the average Ankhian trader can't sleep for thinking of the money he's not making.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Doesn't anyone ever go to bed around here?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>THIS IS A CITY</span>
        </em>
        <span>, said Death, and pushed open the door of a clothing store. When they came out twenty minutes later Mort was wearing a neatly fitting black robe with faint silver embroidery, and the shopkeeper was looking at a handful of antique copper coins and wondering precisely how he came to have them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do you get all those coins?' asked Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>IN PAIRS.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An all-night barber sheared Mort's hair into the latest fashion among the city's young bloods while Death relaxed in the next chair, humming to himself. Much to his surprise, he felt in a good humour.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact after a while he pushed his hood back and glanced up at the barber's apprentice, who tied a towel around his neck in that unseeing, hypnotised way that Mort was coming to recognize, and said, <em class="calibre9">A SPLASH OF TOILET WATER AND A POLISH, MY GOOD MAN.</em></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An elderly wizard having a beard-trim on the other side stiffened when he heard those sombre, leaden tones and swung around. He blanched and muttered a few protective incantations after Death turned, very slowly for maximum effect, and treated him to a grin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A few minutes later, feeling rather self-conscious and chilly around the ears, Mort was heading back towards the stables where Death had lodged his horse. He tried an experimental swagger; he felt his new suit and haircut rather demanded it. It didn't quite work.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort awoke.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He lay looking at the ceiling while his memory did a fast-rewind and the events of the previous day crystallised in his mind like little ice cubes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He couldn't have met Death. He couldn't have eaten a meal with a skeleton with glowing blue eyes. It had to be a weird dream. He couldn't have ridden pillion on a great white horse that had cantered up into the sky and then went . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>. . . where?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The answer flowed into his mind with all the inevitability of a tax demand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>HERE.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His searching hands reached up to his cropped hair, and down to sheets of some smooth slippery material. It was much finer than the wool he was used to at home, which was coarse and always smelled of sheep; it felt like warm, dry ice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He swung out of the bed hastily and stared around the room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>First of all it was large, larger than the entire house back home, and dry, dry as old tombs under ancient deserts. The air tasted as though it had been cooked for hours and then allowed to cool. The carpet under his feet was deep enough to hide a tribe of pygmies and crackled electrically as he padded through it. And everything had been designed in shades of purple and black.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked down at his own body, which was wearing a long white nightshirt. His clothes had been neatly folded on a chair by the bed; the chair, he couldn't help noticing, was delicately carved with a skull-and-bones motif.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sat down on the edge of the bed and began to dress, his mind racing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He eased open the heavy oak door, and felt oddly disappointed when it failed to creak ominously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a bare wooden corridor outside, with big yellow candles set in holders on the far wall. Mort crept out and sidled along the boards until he reached a staircase. He negotiated that successfully without anything ghastly happening, arriving in what looked like an entrance hall full of doors. There were a lot of funereal drapes here, and a grandfather clock with a tick like the heartbeat of a mountain. There was an umbrella stand beside it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It had a scythe in it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked around at the doors. They looked important. Their arches were carved in the now-familiar bones motif. He went to try the nearest one, and a voice behind him said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mustn't go in there, boy.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It took him a moment to realize that this wasn't a voice in his head, but real human words that had been formed by a mouth and transferred to his ears by a convenient system of air compression, as nature intended. Nature had gone to a lot of trouble for six words with a slightly petulant tone to them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned around. There was a girl there, about his own height and perhaps a few years older than him. She had silver hair, and eyes with a pearly sheen to them, and the kind of interesting but impractical long dress that tends to be worn by tragic heroines who clasp single roses to their bosom while gazing soulfully at the moon. Mort had never heard the phrase 'Pre-Raphaelite', which was a pity because it would have been almost the right description. However, such girls tend to be on the translucent, consumptive side, whereas this one had a slight suggestion of too many chocolates.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She stared at him with her head on one side, and one foot tapping irritably on the floor. Then she reached out quickly and pinched him sharply on the arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ow!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm. So you're really real,' she said. 'What's your name, boy?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mortimer. They call me Mort,' he said, rubbing his elbow. 'What did you do that for?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall call you Boy,' she said. 'And I don't really have to explain myself, you understand, but if you must know I thought you were dead. You <em class="calibre9">look</em> dead.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort said nothing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Lost your tongue?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was, in fact, counting to ten.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm not dead,' he said eventually. 'At least, I don't think so. It's a little hard to tell. Who are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You may call me Miss Ysabell,' she said haughtily. 'Father told me you must have something to eat. Follow me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She swept away towards one of the other doors. Mort trailed behind her at just the right distance to have it swing back and hit his other elbow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a kitchen on the other side of the door — long, low and warm, with copper pans hanging from the ceiling and a vast black iron stove occupying the whole of one long wall. An old man was standing in front of it, frying eggs and bacon and whistling between his teeth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The smell attracted Mort's taste buds from across the room, hinting that if they got together they could really enjoy themselves. He found himself moving forward without even consulting his legs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Albert,' snapped Ysabell, 'another one for breakfast.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The man turned his head slowly, and nodded at her without saying a word. She turned back to Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I must say,' she said, 'that with the whole Disc to choose from, I should think Father could have done rather better than you. I suppose you'll just have to do.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She swept out of the room, slamming the door behind her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have to do what?' said Mort, to no-one in particular.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The room was silent, except for the sizzle of the frying pan and the crumbling of coals in the molten heart of the stove. Mort saw that it had the words 'The Little Moloch (Patented)' embossed on its oven door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The cook didn't seem to notice him, so Mort pulled up a chair and sat down at the white scrubbed table.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mushrooms?' said the old man, without looking around.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm? What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I said, do you want mushrooms?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Sorry. No, thank you,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right you are, young sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned around and set out for the table.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Even after he got used to it, Mort always held his breath when he watched Albert walking. Death's manservant was one of those stick-thin, raw-nosed old men who always look as though they are wearing gloves with the fingers cut out — even when they're not — and his walking involved a complicated sequence of movements. Albert leaned forward and his left arm started to swing, slowly at first but soon evolving into a wild jerking movement that finally and suddenly, at about the time when a watcher would have expected the arm to fly off at the elbow, transferred itself down the length of his body to his legs and propelled him forward like a high-speed stilt walker. The frying pan followed a series of intricate curves in the air and was brought to a halt just over Mort's plate.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert did indeed have exactly the right type of half-moon spectacles to peer over the top of.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There could be some porridge to follow,' he said, and winked, apparently to include Mort in the world porridge conspiracy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me', said Mort, 'but where am I, exactly?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't you know? This is the house of Death, lad. He brought you here last night.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I — sort of remember. Only. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well. The bacon and eggs,' said Mort, vaguely. 'It doesn't seem, well, appropriate.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've got some black pudding somewhere,' said Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, I mean . . .' Mort hesitated. 'It's just that I can't see <em class="calibre9">him</em> sitting down to a couple of rashers and a fried slice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert grinned. 'Oh, he doesn't, lad. Not as a regular thing, no. Very easy to cater for, the master. I just cook for me and —' he paused — 'the young lady, of course.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded. 'Your daughter,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mine? Ha,' said Albert. 'You're wrong there. She's his.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared down at his fried eggs. They stared back from their lake of fat. Albert had heard of nutritional values, and didn't hold with them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are we talking about the same person?' he said at last. Tall, wears black, he's a bit . . . skinny.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Adopted,' said Albert, kindly. 'It's rather a long story —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A bell jangled by his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— which will have to wait. He wants to see you in his study. I should run along if I were you. He doesn't like to be kept waiting. Understandable, really. Up the steps and first on the left. You can't miss it —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's got skulls and bones around the door?' said Mort, pushing back his chair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They all have, most of them,' sighed Albert. 'It's only his fancy. He doesn't mean anything by it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Leaving his breakfast to congeal, Mort hurried up the steps, along the corridor and paused in front of the first door. He raised his hand to knock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ENTER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The handle turned of its own accord. The door swung inward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death was seated behind a desk, peering intently into a vast leather book almost bigger than the desk itself. He looked up as Mort came in, keeping one calcareous finger marking his place, and grinned. There wasn't much of an alternative.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH, he said, and then paused. Then he scratched his chin, with a noise like a fingernail being pulled across a comb.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHO ARE YOU, BOY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, sir,' said Mort. 'Your apprentice. You remember?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stared at him for some time. Then the pinpoint blue eyes turned back at the book.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>OH YES, he said, MORT. WELL, BOY, DO YOU SINCERELY WISH TO LEARN THE UTTERMOST SECRETS OF TIME AND SPACE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, sir. I think so, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>GOOD. THE STABLES ARE AROUND THE BACK. THE SHOVEL HANGS JUST INSIDE THE DOOR.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked down. He looked up. Mort hadn't moved.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IS IT BY ANY CHANCE POSSIBLE THAT YOU FAIL TO UNDERSTAND ME?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not fully, sir,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DUNG, BOY. DUNG. ALBERT HAS A COMPOST HEAP IN THE GARDEN. I IMAGINE THERE'S A WHEELBARROW SOMEWHERE ON THE PREMISES. GET ON WITH IT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded mournfully. 'Yes, sir. I see, sir. Sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir, I don't see what this has to do with the secrets of time and space.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death did not look up from his book.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT, he said, IS BECAUSE YOU ARE HERE TO LEARN.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It is a fact that although the Death of the Discworld is, in his own words, an ANTHROPOMORPHIC PERSONIFICATION, he long ago gave up using the traditional skeletal horses, because of the bother of having to stop all the time to wire bits back on. Now his horses were always flesh-and-blood beasts, from the finest stock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And, Mort learned, very well fed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some jobs offer increments. This one offered — well, quite the reverse, but at least it was in the warm and fairly easy to get the hang of. After a while he got into the rhythm of it, and started playing the private little quantity-surveying game that everyone plays in these circumstances. Let's see, he thought, I've done nearly a quarter, let's call it a third, so when I've done that corner by the hayrack it'll be more than half, call it five-eighths, which means three more wheelbarrow loads. . . . It doesn't prove anything very much except that the awesome splendour of the universe is much easier to deal with if you think of it as a series of small chunks.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The horse watched him from its stall, occasionally trying to eat his hair in a friendly sort of way.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After a while he became aware that someone else was watching him. The girl Ysabell was leaning on the half-door, her chin in her hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you a servant?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort straightened up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' he said, 'I'm an apprentice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's silly. Albert said you can't be an apprentice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort concentrated on hefting a shovelful into the wheelbarrow. Two more shovelfuls, call it three if it's well pressed down, and that means four more barrows, all right, call it five, before I've done halfway to the . . </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He says,' said Ysabell in a louder voice, 'that apprentices become masters, and you can't have more than one Death. So you're just a servant and you have to do what I say.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>. . . and then eight more barrows means it's all done all the way to the door, which is nearly two-thirds of the whole thing, which means. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you hear what I said, boy?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded. And then it'll be fourteen more barrows, only call it fifteen because I haven't swept up properly in the corner, and. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have you lost your tongue?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort mildly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She looked at him furiously. 'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My name is Mort,' said Mort. 'Or Mortimer. Most people call me Mort. Did you want to talk to me about something?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She was speechless for a moment, staring from his face to the shovel and back again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Only I've been told to get on with this,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She exploded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why are you here? Why did Father bring you here?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He hired me at the hiring fair,' said Mort. 'All the boys got hired. And me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And you wanted to be hired?' she snapped. 'He's Death, you know. The Grim Reaper. He's very important. He's not something you <em class="calibre9">become</em>, he's something you <em class="calibre9">are</em>.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort gestured vaguely at the wheelbarrow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect it'll turn out for the best,' he said. 'My father always says things generally do.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He picked up the shovel and turned away, and grinned at the horse's backside as he heard Ysabell snort and walk away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort worked steadily through the sixteenths, eighths, quarters and thirds, wheeling the barrow out through the yard to the heap by the apple tree.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death's garden was big, neat and well-tended. It was also very, very black. The grass was black. The flowers were black. Black apples gleamed among the black leaves of a black apple tree. Even the air looked inky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Alter a while Mort thought he could see — no, he couldn't possibly imagine he could see . . . different colours of black.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's to say, not simply very dark tones of red and green and whatever, but real shades of black. A whole spectrum of colours, all different and all — well, black. He tipped out the last load, put the barrow away, and went back to the house.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ENTER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death was standing behind a lectern, poring over a map. He looked at Mort as if he wasn't entirely there.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU HAVEN'T HEARD OF THE BAY OF MANTE, HAVE YOU? he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, sir,' said Mort. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FAMOUS SHIPWRECK THERE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Was there?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE WILL BE, said Death, IF I CAN FIND THE DAMN PLACE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort walked around the lectern and peered at the map.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're going to sink the ship?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death looked horrified.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>CERTAINLY NOT. THERE WILL BE A COMBINATION OF BAD SEAMANSHIP, SHALLOW WATER AND A CONTRARY WIND.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's horrible,' said Mort. 'Will there be many drowned?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT'S UP TO FATE, said Death, turning to the bookcase behind him and pulling out a heavy gazetteer. THERE'S NOTHING I CAN DO ABOUT IT. WHAT IS THAT SMELL?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Me,' said Mort, simply.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH, THE STABLES. Death paused, his hand on the spine of the book. AND WHY DO YOU THINK I DIRECTED YOU TO THE STABLES? THINK CAREFULLY, NOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort hesitated. He <em class="calibre9">had</em> been thinking carefully, in between counting wheelbarrows. He'd wondered if it had been to coordinate his hand and eye, or teach him the habit of obedience, or bring home to him the importance, on the human scale, of small tasks, or make him realize that even great men must start at the bottom. None of these explanations seemed exactly right.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think . . .' he began.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, I think it was because you were up to your knees in horseshit, to tell you the truth.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death looked at him for a long time. Mort shifted uneasily from one foot to the other.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ABSOLUTELY CORRECT, snapped Death. CLARITY OF THOUGHT. REALISTIC APPROACH. VERY IMPORTANT IN A JOB LIKE OURS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, sir. Sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HMM? Death was struggling with the index.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'People die all the time, sir, don't they? Millions. You must be very busy. But —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death gave Mort the look he was coming to be familiar with. It started off as blank surprise, flickered briefly towards annoyance, called in for a drink at recognition and settled finally on vague forbearance.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BUT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'd have thought you'd have been, well, out and about a bit more. You know. Stalking the streets. My granny's almanack's got a picture of you with a scythe and stuff.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I SEE. I AM AFRAID IT IS HARD TO EXPLAIN UNLESS YOU KNOW ABOUT POINT INCARNATION AND NODE FOCUSING. I DON'T EXPECT YOU DO?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think so.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>GENERALLY I'M ONLY EXPECTED TO MAKE AN ACTUAL APPEARANCE ON SPECIAL OCCASIONS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Like a king, I suppose,' said Mort. 'I mean, a king is reigning even when he's doing something else or asleep, even. Is that it, sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'LL DO, said Death, rolling up the maps. AND NOW, BOY, IF YOU'VE FINISHED THE STABLE YOU CAN GO AND SEE IF ALBERT HAS ANY JOBS HE WANTS DOING. IF YOU LIKE, YOU CAN COME OUT ON THE ROUND WITH ME THIS EVENING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded. Death went back to his big leather book, took up a pen, stared at it for a moment, and then looked up at Mort with his skull on one side.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HAVE YOU MET MY DAUGHTER? he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Er. Yes, sir,' said Mort, his hand on the doorknob.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SHE IS A VERY PLEASANT GIRL, said Death, BUT I THINK SHE QUITE LIKES HAVING SOMEONE OF HER OWN AGE AROUND TO TALK TO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AND, OF COURSE, ONE DAY ALL THIS WILL BELONG TO HER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Something like a small blue supernova flared for a moment in the depths of his eyesockets. It dawned on Mort that, with some embarrassment and complete lack of expertise, Death was trying to wink.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In a landscape that owed nothing to time and space, which appeared on no map, which existed only in those far reaches of the multiplexed cosmos known to the few astrophysicists who have taken really bad acid, Mort spent the afternoon helping Albert plant out broccoli. It was black, tinted with purple.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He tries, see,' said Albert, flourishing the dibber. 'It's just that when it comes to colour, he hasn't got much imagination.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm not sure I understand all this,' said Mort. 'Did you say he <em class="calibre9">made</em> all this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Beyond the garden wall the ground dropped towards a deep valley and then rose into dark moorland that marched all the way to distant mountains, jagged as cats' teeth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeah,' said Albert. 'Mind what you're doing with that watering can.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What was here before?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I dunno,' said Albert, starting a fresh row. 'Firmament, I suppose. That's the fancy name for raw nothing. It's not a very good job of work, to tell the truth. I mean, the garden's okay, but the mountains are downright shoddy. They're all fuzzy when you get up close. I went and had a look once.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort squinted hard at the trees nearest him. They seemed commendably solid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What'd he do it all for?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert grunted. 'Do you know what happens to lads who ask too many questions?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort thought for a moment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' he said eventually, 'what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then Albert straightened up and said, 'Damned if I know. Probably they get answers, and serve 'em right.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He said I could go out with him tonight,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're a lucky boy then, aren't you,' said Albert vaguely, heading back for the cottage.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did he <em class="calibre9">really</em> make all this?' said Mort, tagging along after him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I suppose he wanted somewhere where he could feel at home.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you dead, Albert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Me? Do I look dead?' The old man snorted when Mort started to give him a slow, critical look, 'and you can stop that. I'm as alive as you are. Probably more.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right.' Albert pushed open the back door, and turned to regard Mort as kindly as he could manage.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's best not to ask all these questions,' he said, 'it upsets people. Now, how about a nice fry-up?'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The bell rang while they were playing dominoes. Mort sat to attention.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He'll want the horse made ready,' said Albert. 'Come on.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They went out to the stable in the gathering dusk, and Mort watched the old man saddle up Death's horse.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'His name's Binky,' said Albert, fastening the girth. 'It just goes to show, you never can tell.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky tried to eat his scarf in an affectionate way.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort remembered the woodcut in his grandmother's almanack, between the page on planting times and the phases of the moon section, showing Dethe the Great Levyller Comes To Alle Menne. He'd stared at it hundreds of times when learning his letters. It wouldn't have been half so impressive if it had been generally known that the flame-breathing horse the spectre rode was called Binky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I would have thought something like Fang or Sabre or Ebony,' Albert continued, 'but the master will have his little fancies, you know. Looking forward to it, are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think so,' said Mort uncertainly. 'I've never seen Death actually at work.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not many have,' said Albert. 'Not twice, at any rate.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort took a deep breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'About this daughter of his —' he began.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH, GOOD EVENING, ALBERT, BOY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort automatically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death strode into the stable, stooping a little to clear the ceiling. Albert nodded, not in any subservient way, Mort noticed, but simply out of form. Mort had met one or two servants, on the rare occasions he'd been taken into town, and Albert wasn't like any of them. He seemed to act as though the house really belonged to him and its owner was just a passing guest, something to be tolerated like peeling paintwork or spiders in the lavatory. Death put up with it too, as though he and Albert had said everything that needed to be said a long time ago and were simply content, now, to get on with their jobs with the minimum of inconvenience all around. To Mort it was rather like going for a walk after a really bad thunderstormy thing was quite fresh, nothing was particularly unpleasant, but there was the sense of vast energies just expended.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finding out about Albert tagged itself on to the end of his list of things to do.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HOLD THIS, said Death, and pushed a scythe into his hand while he swung himself up on to Binky. The scythe looked normal enough, except for the blade: it was so thin that Mort could see through it, a pale blue shimmer in the air that could slice flame and chop sound. He held it very carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>RIGHT, BOY, said Death. COME ON UP. ALBERT. DON'T WAIT UP.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The horse trotted out of the courtyard and into the sky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There should have been a flash or rush of stars. The air should have spiralled and turned into speeding sparks such as normally happens in the common, everyday trans-dimensional hyper-jumps. But this was Death, who has mastered the art of going everywhere without ostentation and could slide between dimensions as easily as he could slip through a locked door, and they moved at an easy gallop through cloud canyons, past great billowing mountains of cumulus, until the wisps parted in front of them and the Disc lay below, basking in sunlight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT'S BECAUSE TIME IS ADJUSTABLE, said Death, when Mort pointed this out. IT'S NOT REALLY IMPORTANT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I always thought it was.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>PEOPLE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT ONLY BECAUSE THEY INVENTED IT, said Death somberly. Mort considered this rather trite, but decided not to argue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are we going to do now?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S A PROMISING WAR IN KLATCHISTAN, said Death. SEVERAL PLAGUE OUTBREAKS. ONE RATHER IMPORTANT ASSASSINATION, IF YOU'D PREFER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, a murder?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AYE, A KING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, kings,' said Mort dismissively. He knew about kings. Once a year a band of strolling players, or at any rate ambling ones, came to Sheepridge and the plays they performed were invariably about kings. Kings were always killing one another, or being killed. The plots were quite complicated, involving mistaken identity, poisons, battles, long-lost sons, ghosts, witches and, usually, lots of daggers. Since it was clear that being a king was no picnic it was amazing that half the cast were apparently trying to become one. Mort's idea of palace life was a little hazy, but he imagined that no one got much sleep.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'd quite like to see a real king,' he said. 'They wear crowns all the time, my granny said. Even when they go to the lavatory.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death considered this carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NO TECHNICAL REASON WHY NOT, he conceded. IN MY EXPERIENCE, HOWEVER, IT IS GENERALLY NOT THE CASE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The horse wheeled, and the vast flat checkerboard of the Sto plain sped underneath them at lightning speed. This was rich country, full of silt and rolling cabbage fields and neat little kingdoms whose boundaries wriggled like snakes as small, formal wars, marriage pacts, complex alliances and the occasional bit of sloppy cartography changed the political shape of the land.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This king,' said Mort, as a forest zipped beneath them, 'is he good or bad?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I NEVER CONCERN MYSELF WITH SUCH THINGS, said Death. HE'S NO WORSE THAN ANY OTHER KING, I IMAGINE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does he have people put to death?' said Mort, and remembering who he was talking to added, 'Saving y' honour's presence, of course.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SOMETIMES. THERE ARE SOME THINGS YOU HAVE TO DO, WHEN YOU'RE A KING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A city slid below them, clustered around a castle built on a rock outcrop that poked up out of the plain like a geological pimple. It was one huge rock from the distant Ramtops, Death said, left there by the retreating ice in the legendary days when the Ice Giants waged war on the gods and rode their glaciers across the land in an attempt to freeze the whole world. They'd given up in the end, however, and driven their great glittering flocks back to their hidden lands among the razor-backed mountains near the Hub. No one on the plains knew why they had done this; it was generally considered by the younger generation in the city of Sto Lat, the city around the rock, that it was because the place was dead boring.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky trotted down over nothingness and touched down on the flagstones of the castle's topmost tower. Death dismounted and told Mort to sort out the nosebag.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Won't people notice there's a horse up here?' he said, as they strolled to a stairwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death shook his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WOULD YOU BELIEVE THERE COULD BE A HORSE AT THE TOP OF THIS TOWER? he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. You couldn't get one up these stairs,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WELL, THEN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. I see. People don't want to see what can't possibly exist.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WELL DONE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now they were walking along a wide corridor hung with tapestries. Death reached into his robe and pulled out an hourglass, peering closely at it in the dim light.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was a particularly fine one, its glass cut into intricate facets and imprisoned in an ornate framework of wood and brass. The words 'King Olerve the Bastard' were engraved deeply into it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sand inside sparkled oddly. There wasn't a lot left.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death hummed to himself and stowed the glass away in whatever mysterious recess it had occupied.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They turned a corner and hit a wall of sound. There was a hall full of people there, under a cloud of smoke and chatter that rose all the way up into the banner-haunted shadows in the roof. Up in a gallery a trio of minstrels were doing their best to be heard and not succeeding.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The appearance of Death didn't cause much of a stir. A footman by the door turned to him, opened his mouth and then frowned in a distracted way and thought of something else. A few courtiers glanced in their direction, their eyes instantly unfocusing as common sense overruled the other five.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WE'VE GOT A FEW MINUTES, said Death, taking a drink from a passing tray, LET'S MINGLE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They can't see me either!' said Mort. 'But I'm real!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>REALITY IS NOT ALWAYS WHAT IT SEEMS, said Death. ANYWAY, IF THEY DON'T WANT TO SEE ME, THEY CERTAINLY DON'T WANT TO SEE YOU. THESE ARE ARISTOCRATS, BOY. THEY'RE <em class="calibre9">GOOD</em> AT NOT SEEING THINGS. WHY IS THERE A CHERRY ON A STICK IN THIS DRINK?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort absentmindedly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S NOT AS IF IT DOES ANYTHING FOR THE FLAVOUR. WHY DOES ANYONE TAKE A PERFECTLY GOOD DRINK AND THEN PUT IN A CHERRY ON A POLE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's going to happen next?' said Mort. An elderly earl bumped into his elbow, looked everywhere but directly at him, shrugged and walked away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TAKE THESE THINGS, NOW, said Death, fingering a passing canape. I MEAN, MUSHROOMS YES, CHICKEN YES, CREAM YES, I'VE NOTHING AGAINST ANY OF THEM, BUT WHY IN THE NAME OF SANITY MINCE THEM ALL UP AND PUT THEM IN LITTLE PASTRY CASES?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT'S MORTALS FOR YOU, Death continued. THEY'VE ONLY GOT A FEW YEARS IN THIS WORLD AND THEY SPEND THEM ALL IN MAKING THINGS COMPLICATED FOR THEMSELVES. FASCINATING. HAVE A GHERKIN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where's the king?' said Mort, craning to look over the heads of the court.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>CHAP WITH THE GOLDEN BEARD, said Death. He tapped a flunky on the shoulder, and as the man turned and looked around in puzzlement deftly piloted another drink from his tray.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort cast around until he saw the figure standing in a little group in the centre of the crowd, leaning over slightly the better to hear what a rather short courtier was saying to him. He was a tall, heavily-built man with the kind of stolid, patient face that one would confidently buy a used horse from.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He doesn't look a <em class="calibre9">bad</em> king,' said Mort. 'Why would anyone want to kill him?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SEE THE MAN NEXT TO HIM? WITH THE LITTLE MOUSTACHE AND THE GRIN LIKE A LIZARD? Death pointed with his scythe. 'Yes?' HIS COUSIN, THE DUKE OF STO HELIT. NOT THE NICEST OF PEOPLE, said Death. A HANDY MAN WITH A BOTTLE OF POISON. FIFTH IN LINE TO THE THRONE LAST YEAR, NOW SECOND IN LINE. BIT OF A SOCIAL CLIMBER, YOU MIGHT SAY. He fumbled inside his robe and produced an hourglass in which black sand coursed between a spiked iron latticework. He gave it an experimental shake. AND DUE TO LIVE ANOTHER THIRTY, THIRTY-FIVE YEARS, he said, with a sigh.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And he goes around killing people?' said Mort. He shook his head. There's no justice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death sighed. NO, he said, handing his drink to a page who was surprised to find he was suddenly holding an empty glass, THERE'S JUST ME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He drew his sword, which had the same ice blue, shadow-thin blade as the scythe of office, and stepped forward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I thought you used the scythe,' whispered Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>KINGS GET THE SWORD, said Death. IT'S A ROYAL, WHATSNAME, PREROGATIVE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His free hand thrust its bony digits beneath his robe again and brought out King Olerve's glass. In the top half the last few grains of sand were huddling together.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>PAY CAREFUL ATTENTION, said Death, YOU MAY BE ASKED QUESTIONS AFTERWARDS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Wait,' said Mort, wretchedly. 'It's not fair. Can't you stop it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FAIR? said Death. WHO SAID ANYTHING ABOUT FAIR?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, if the other man is such a —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LISTEN, said Death, FAIR DOESN'T COME INTO IT. YOU CAN'T TAKE SIDES. GOOD GRIEF. WHEN IT'S TIME, IT'S TIME. THAT'S ALL THERE IS TO IT, BOY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' moaned Mort, staring at the crowd.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And then he saw her. A random movement in the people opened up a channel between Mort and a slim, red-haired girl seated among a group of older women behind the king. She wasn't exactly beautiful, being over-endowed in the freckle department and, frankly, rather on the skinny side. But the sight of her caused a shock that hot-wired Mort's hindbrain and drove it all the way to the pit of his stomach, laughing nastily.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S TIME, said Death, giving Mort a nudge with a sharp elbow. FOLLOW ME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death walked toward the king, weighing his sword in his hand. Mort blinked, and started to follow. The girl's eyes met his for a second and immediately looked away — then swivelled back, dragging her head around, her mouth starting to open in an 'o' of horror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's backbone melted. He started to run towards the king.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look out!' he screamed. 'You're in great danger!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And the world turned into treacle. It began to fill up with blue and purple shadows, like a heatstroke dream, and sound faded away until the roar of the court became distant and scritchy, like the music in someone else's headphones. Mort saw Death standing companionably by the king, his eyes turned up towards —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— the minstrel gallery.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort saw the bowman, saw the bow, saw the bolt now winging through the air at the speed of a sick snail. Slow as it was, he couldn't outrun it. It seemed like hours before he could bring his leaden legs under control, but finally he managed to get both feet to touch the floor at the same time and kicked away with all the apparent acceleration of continental drift.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As he twisted slowly through the air Death said, without rancour, IT WON'T WORK, YOU KNOW. IT'S ONLY NATURAL THAT YOU SHOULD WANT TO TRY, BUT IT WON'T WORK.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Dream-like, Mort drifted through a silent world. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The bolt struck. Death brought his sword around in a double-handed swing that passed gently through the king's neck without leaving a mark. To Mort, spiralling gently through the twilight world, it looked as though a ghostly shape had dropped away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It couldn't be the king, because he was manifestly still standing there, looking directly at Death with an expression of extreme surprise. There was a shadowy <em class="calibre9">something</em> around his feet, and a long way away people were reacting with shouts and screams.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A GOOD CLEAN JOB, said Death. ROYALTY ARE ALWAYS A PROBLEM. THEY TEND TO WANT TO HANG ON. YOUR AVERAGE PEASANT, NOW, HE CAN'T WAIT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who the hell are you?' said the king. 'What are you doing here? Eh? Guards! I demand —' The insistent message from his eyes finally battered through to his brain. Mort was impressed. King Olerve had held on to his throne for many years and, even when dead, knew how to behave. 'Oh,' he said, 'I see. I didn't expect to see you so soon.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOUR MAJESTY, said Death, bowing, FEW DO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The king looked around. It was quiet and dim in this shadow world, but outside there seemed to be a lot of excitement.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's me down there, is it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I AM AFRAID SO, SIRE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Clean job. Crossbow, was it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES. AND NOW, SIRE, IF YOU WOULD —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who did it?' said the king. Death hesitated.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A HIRED ASSASSIN FROM ANKH-MORPORK, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm. Clever. I congratulate Sto Helit. And here's me filling myself with antidotes. No antidote to cold steel, eh? Eh?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>INDEED NOT, SIRE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The old rope ladder and fast horse by the drawbridge trick, eh?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SO IT WOULD APPEAR, SIRE, said Death, taking the king's shade gently by the arm. IF IT'S ANY CONSOLATION, THOUGH, THE HORSE <em class="calibre9">NEEDS</em> TO BE FAST.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Eh?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death allowed his fixed grin to widen a little.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVE AN APPOINTMENT WITH ITS RIDER TOMORROW IN ANKH, said Death. YOU SEE, HE ALLOWED THE DUKE TO PROVIDE HIM WITH A PACKED LUNCH.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The king, whose eminent suitability for his job meant that he was not automatically quick on the uptake, considered this for a moment and then gave a short laugh. He noticed Mort for the first time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who's this?' he said, 'He dead too?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MY APPRENTICE, said Death. WHO WILL BE GETTING A GOOD TALKING-TO BEFORE HE'S MUCH OLDER, THE SCALLYWAG.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort automatically. The sound of their talking washed around him, but he couldn't take his eyes off the scene around them. He felt real. Death looked solid. The king looked surprisingly fit and well for someone who was dead. But the rest of the world was a mass of sliding shadows. Figures were bent over the slumped body, moving through Mort as if they were no more substantial than a mist.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The girl was kneeling down, weeping.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's my daughter,' said the king. 'I ought to feel sad. Why don't I?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>EMOTIONS GET LEFT BEHIND. IT'S ALL A MATTER OF GLANDS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. That would be it, I suppose. She can't see us, can she?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I suppose there's no chance that I could —?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NONE, said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Only she's going to be queen, and if I could only let her—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SORRY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The girl looked up and through Mort. He watched the duke walk up behind her and lay a comforting hand on her shoulder. A fault smile hovered around the man's lips. It was the sort of smile that lies on sandbanks waiting for incautious swimmers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can't make you hear me, Mort said. Don't trust him!</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She peered at Mort, screwing up her eyes. He reached out, and watched his hand pass straight through hers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>COME ALONG, BOY. NO LALLYGAGGING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort felt Death's hand tighten on his shoulder, not in an unfriendly fashion. He turned away reluctantly, following Death and the king.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They walked out through the wall. He was halfway after them before he realized that walking through walls was impossible.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The suicidal logic of this nearly killed him. He felt the chill of the stone around his limbs before a voice in his ear said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LOOK AT IT THIS WAY. THE WALL CANT BE THERE. OTHERWISE YOU WOULDN'T BE WALKING THROUGH IT. WOULD YOU, BOY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My name is Mort. Or Mortimer,' said Mort angrily, pushing forward. The chill fell behind him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE. THAT WASN'T SO HARD, WAS IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked up and down the length of the corridor, and slapped the wall experimentally. He must have walked through it, but it felt solid enough now. Little specks of mica glittered at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do you do that stuff?' he said. 'How do I do it? Is it magic?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MAGIC IS THE ONE THING IT ISN'T, BOY. WHEN YOU CAN DO IT BY YOURSELF, THERE WILL BE NOTHING MORE THAT I CAN TEACH YOU.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The king, who was considerably more diffuse now, said, 'It's impressive, I'll grant you. By the way, I seem to be fading.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S THE MORPHOGENETIC FIELD WEAKENING, said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The king's voice was no louder than a whisper. 'Is that what it is?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT HAPPENS TO EVERYONE. TRY TO ENJOY IT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How?' Now the voice was no more than a shape in the air. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>JUST BE YOURSELF.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>At that moment the king collapsed, growing smaller and smaller in the air as the field finally collapsed into a tiny, brilliant pinpoint. It happened so quickly that Mort almost missed it. From ghost to mote in half a second, with a faint sigh.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death gently caught the glittering thing and stowed it away somewhere under his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's happened to him?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ONLY HE KNOWS, said Death. COME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My granny says that dying is like going to sleep,' Mort added, a shade hopefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I WOULDN'T KNOW. I HAVE DONE NEITHER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort took a last look along the corridor. The big doors had been flung back and the court was spilling out. Two older women were endeavouring to comfort the princess, but she was striding ahead of them so that they bounced along behind her like a couple of fussy balloons. They disappeared up another corridor.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALREADY A QUEEN, said Death, approvingly. Death liked style.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They were on the roof before he spoke again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>You TRIED TO WARN HIM, he said, removing Binky's nosebag.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, sir. Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU CANNOT INTERFERE WITH FATE. WHO ARE YOU TO JUDGE WHO SHOULD LIVE AND WHO SHOULD DIE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death watched Mort's expression carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ONLY THE GODS ARE ALLOWED TO DO THAT, he added. To TINKER WITH THE FATE OF EVEN ONE INDIVIDUAL COULD DESTROY THE WHOLE WORLD. DO YOU UNDERSTAND?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded miserably. 'Are you going to send me home?' he said. Death reached down and swung him up behind the saddle. BECAUSE YOU SHOWED COMPASSION? NO. I MIGHT HAVE DONE IF YOU HAD SHOWN PLEASURE. BUT YOU MUST LEARN THE COMPASSION PROPER TO YOUR TRADE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's that?' </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A <em class="calibre9">SHARP</em> EDGE.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Days passed, although Mort wasn't certain how many. The gloomy sun of Death's world rolled regularly across the sky, but the visits to mortal space seemed to adhere to no particular system. Nor did Death visit only kings and important battles; most of the personal visits were to quite ordinary people.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Meals were served up by Albert, who smiled to himself a lot and didn't say anything much. Ysabell kept to her room most of the time, or rode her own pony on the black moors above the cottage. The sight of her with her hair streaming in the wind would have been more impressive if she was a better horse-woman, or if the pony had been rather larger, or if her hair was the sort that streams naturally. Some hair has got it, and some hasn't. Hers hadn't.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When he wasn't out on what Death referred to as THE DUTY Mort assisted Albert, or found jobs in the garden or stable, or browsed through Death's extensive library, reading with the speed and omnivorousness common to those who discover the magic of the written word for the first time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Most of the books in the library were biographies, of course.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They were unusual in one respect. They were writing themselves. People who had already died, obviously, filled their books from cover to cover, and those who hadn't been born yet had to put up with blank pages. Those in between . . . Mort took note, marking the place and counting the extra lines, and estimated that some books were adding paragraphs at the rate of four or five every day. He didn't recognize the handwriting.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And finally he plucked up his courage.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A WHAT? said Death in astonishment, sitting behind his ornate desk and turning his scythe-shaped paperknife over and over in his hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'An afternoon off,' repeated Mort. The room suddenly seemed to be oppressively big, with himself very exposed in the middle of a carpet about the size of a field.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BUT WHY? said Death. IT CANT BE TO ATTEND YOUR GRANDMOTHER'S FUNERAL, he added. I WOULD KNOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I just want to, you know, get out and meet people,' said Mort, trying to outstare that unflinching blue gaze.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BUT YOU MEET PEOPLE EVERY DAY, protested Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, I know, only, well, not for very long,' said Mort. 'I mean, it'd be nice to meet someone with a life expectancy of more than a few minutes. Sir,' he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death drummed his fingers on the desk, making a sound not unlike a mouse tap-dancing, and gave Mort another few seconds of stare. He noticed that the boy seemed rather less elbows than he remembered, stood a little more upright and, bluntly, could use a word like 'expectancy'. It was all that library.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALL RIGHT, he said grudgingly. BUT IT SEEMS TO ME YOU HAVE EVERYTHING YOU NEED RIGHT HERE. THE DUTY IS NOT ONEROUS, IS IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AND YOU HAVE GOOD FOOD AND A WARM BED AND RECREATION AND PEOPLE YOUR OWN AGE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon, sir?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MY DAUGHTER, said Death. YOU HAVE MET HER, I BELIEVE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Yes, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SHE HAS A VERY WARM PERSONALITY WHEN YOU GET TO KNOW HER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am sure she has, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NEVERTHELESS, YOU WISH — Death launched the words with a spin of distaste — AN AFTERNOON OFF? 'Yes, sir. If you please, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>VERY WELL. So BE IT. You MAY HAVE UNTIL SUNSET.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death opened his great ledger, picked up a pen, and began to write. Occasionally he'd reach out and flick the beads of an abacus.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After a minute he looked up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU'RE STILL HERE, he said. AND IN YOUR OWN TIME, TOO, he added sourly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um,' said Mort, 'will people be able to see me, sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I IMAGINE SO, I'M SURE, said Death. Is THERE ANYTHING ELSE I MIGHT BE ABLE TO ASSIST YOU WITH BEFORE YOU LEAVE FOR THIS DEBAUCH?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, sir, there is one thing, sir, I don't know how to get to the mortal world, sir,' said Mort desperately.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death sighed loudly, and pulled open a desk drawer.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>JUST WALK THERE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded miserably, and took the long walk to the study door. As he pulled it open Death coughed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BOY! he called, and tossed something across the room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort caught it automatically as the door creaked open.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The doorway vanished. The deep carpet underfoot became muddy cobbles. Broad daylight poured over him like quick-silver.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort, to the universe at large.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' said a stallholder beside him. Mort stared around. He was in a crowded market place, packed with people and animals. Every kind of thing was being sold from needles to (via a few itinerant prophets) visions of salvation. It was impossible to hold any conversation quieter than a shout.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort tapped the stallholder in the small of the back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can you see me?' he demanded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stallholder squinted critically at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I reckon so,' he said, 'or someone very much like you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Thank you,' said Mort, immensely relieved.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't mention it. I see lots of people every day, no charge. Want to buy any bootlaces?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think so,' said Mort. 'What place is this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't know?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A couple of people at the next stall were looking at Mort thoughtfully. His mind went into overdrive.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My master travels a lot,' he said, truthfully. 'We arrived last night, and I was asleep on the cart. Now I've got the afternoon off.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' said the stallholder. He leaned forward conspiratorially. 'Looking for a good time, are you? I could fix you up.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'd quite enjoy knowing where I am,' Mort conceded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The man was taken aback.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This is Ankh-Morpork,' he said. 'Anyone ought to be able to see that. Smell it, too.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sniffed. There was a certain something about the air in the city. You got the feeling that it was air that had seen life. You couldn't help noting with every breath that thousands of other people were very close to you and nearly all of them had armpits.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stallholder regarded Mort critically, noting the pale face, well-cut clothes and strange presence, a sort of coiled spring effect.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look, I'll be frank,' he said. 'I could point you in the direction of a great brothel.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've already had lunch,' said Mort, vaguely. 'But you can tell me if we're anywhere near, I think it's called Sto Lat?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'About twenty miles Hubwards, but there's nothing there for a young man of your kidney,' said the trader hurriedly. 'I know, </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>you're out by yourself, you want new experiences, you want excitement, romance —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort, meanwhile, had opened the bag Death had given him. It was full of small gold coins, about the size of sequins.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An image formed again in his mind, of a pale young face under a head of red hair who had somehow known he was there. The unfocused feelings that had haunted his mind for the last few days suddenly sharpened to a point.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I want,' he said firmly, 'a very fast horse.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Five minutes later, Mort was lost.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This part of Ankh-Morpork was known as The Shades, an inner-city area sorely in need either of governmental help or, for preference, a flamethrower. It couldn't be called squalid because that would be stretching the word to breaking point. It was beyond squalor and out the other side, where by a sort of Einsteinian reversal it achieved a magnificent horribleness that it wore like an architectural award. It was noisy and sultry and smelled like a cowshed floor.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It didn't so much have a neighbourhood as an ecology, like a great land-based coral reef. There were the humans, all right, humanoid equivalents of lobsters, squid, shrimps and so on. And sharks.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort wandered hopelessly along the winding streets. Anyone hovering at rooftop height would have noticed a certain pattern in the crowds behind him, suggesting a number of men converging nonchalantly on a target, and would rightly have concluded that Mort and his gold had about the same life expectancy as a three-legged hedgehog on a six-lane motorway.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It is probably already apparent that The Shades was not the sort of place to have inhabitants. It had denizens. Periodically Mort would try to engage one in conversation, to find the way to a good horse dealer. The denizen would usually mutter something and hurry away, since anyone wishing to live in The Shades for longer than maybe three hours developed very specialized senses indeed and would no more hang around near Mort than a peasant would stand near a tall tree in thundery weather.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And so Mort came at last to the river Ankh, greatest of rivers. Even before it entered the city it was slow and heavy with the silt of the plains, and by the time it got to The Shades even an agnostic could have walked across it. It was hard to drown in the Ankh, but easy to suffocate.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked at the surface doubtfully. It seemed to be moving. There were bubbles in it. It had to be water.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He sighed, and turned away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Three men had appeared behind him, as though extruded from the stonework. They had the heavy, stolid look of those thugs whose appearance in any narrative means that it's time for the hero to be menaced a bit, although not too much, because it's also obvious that they're going to be horribly surprised.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They were leering. They were good at it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>One of them had drawn a knife, which he waved in little circles in the air. He advanced slowly towards Mort, while the other two hung back to provide immoral support.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Give us the money,' he rasped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's hand went to the bag on his belt.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hang on a minute,' he said. 'What happens then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I mean, is it my money or my life?' said Mort. 'That's the sort of thing robbers are supposed to demand. Your money or your life. I read that in a book once,' he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Possibly, possibly,' conceded the robber. He felt he was losing the initiative, but rallied magnificently. 'On the other hand, it could be your money <em class="calibre9">and</em> your life. Pulling off the double, you might say.' The man looked sideways at his colleagues, who sniggered on cue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In that case —' said Mort, and hefted the bag in one hand preparatory to chucking it as far out into the Ankh as he could, even though there was a reasonable chance it would bounce.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hey, what are you doing,'said the robber. He started to run forward, but halted when Mort gave the bag a threatening jerk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well,' said Mort, 'I look at it like this. If you're going to kill me anyway, I might as well get rid of the money. It's entirely up to you.' To illustrate his point he took one coin out of the bag and flicked it out across the water, which accepted it with an unfortunate sucking noise. The thieves shuddered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The leading thief looked at the bag. He looked at his knife. He looked at Mort's face. He looked at his colleagues.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me,' he said, and they went into a huddle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort measured the distance to the end of the alley. He wouldn't make it. Anyway, these three looked as though chasing people was another thing they were good at. It was only logic that left them feeling a little stretched.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Their leader turned back to Mort. He gave a final glance at the other two. They both nodded decisively.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think we kill you and take a chance on the money,' he said. 'We don't want this sort of thing to spread.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The other two drew their knives.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swallowed. 'This could be unwise,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, <em class="calibre9">I</em> won't like it, for one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're not supposed to like it, you're supposed to — die,' said the thief, advancing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think I'm due to die,' said Mort, backing away. 'I'm sure I would have been told.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeah,' said the thief, who was getting fed up with this. 'Yeah, well, you have been, haven't you? Great steaming elephant turds!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had just stepped backwards again. Through a wall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The leading thief glared at the solid stone that had swallowed Mort, and then threw down his knife.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, f… me,' he said. 'A f…ing wizard. I <em class="calibre9">hate </em>f…ing wizards!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You shouldn't f… them, then,' muttered one of his henchmen, effortlessly pronouncing a row of dashes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The third member of the trio, who was a little slow of thinking, said, 'Hey, he walked through the wall!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And we bin following him for ages, too,' muttered the second one. 'Fine one you are, Pilgarlic. I said I thought he was a wizard, only wizards'd walk round here by themselves. Dint I say he looked like a wizard? I said —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're saying a good deal too much,' growled the leader.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">I saw him, he walked right through the wall there</em> —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, yeah?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeah!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Right through it, dint you see</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Think you're sharp, do you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sharp enough, come to that!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The leader scooped his knife out of the dirt in one snaky movement.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sharp as this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The third thief lurched over to the wall and kicked it hard a few times, while behind him there were the sounds of scuffle and some damp bubbling noises.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yep, it's a wall okay,' he said. That's a wall if ever I saw one. How d'you think they do it, lads?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Lads?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He tripped over the prone bodies.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh,' he said. Slow as his mind was, it was quick enough to realize something very important. He was in a back alley in The Shades, and he was alone. He ran for it, and got quite a long way.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death walked slowly across tiles in the life-timer room, inspecting the serried rows of busy hourglasses. Albert followed dutifully behind with the great ledger open in his arms.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sound roared around them, a vast grey waterfall of noise.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It came from the shelves where, stretching away into the infinite distance, row upon row of hourglasses poured away the sands of mortal time. It was a heavy sound, a dull sound, a sound that poured like sullen custard over the bright roly-poly pudding of the soul.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>VERY WELL, said Death at last. I MAKE IT THREE. A QUIET NIGHT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That'd be Goodie Hamstring, the Abbott Lobsang again, and this Princess Keli,' said Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death looked at the three hourglasses in his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I WAS THINKING OF SENDING THE LAD OUT, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert consulted his ledger. 'Well, Goodie wouldn't be any trouble and the Abbott is what you might call experienced,' he said. 'Shame about the princess. Only fifteen. Could be tricky.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES. IT IS A PITY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stood with the third glass in his hand, staring thoughtfully at the play of light across its surface. He sighed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ONE SO YOUNG. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you feeling all right, master?' said Albert, his voice full of concern.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TIME LIKE AN EVER-ROLLING STREAM BEARS ALL ITS. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT? said Death, snapping out of it. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You've been overdoing it, master, that's what it is—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT ARE YOU BLATHERING ABOUT, MAN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You had a bit of a funny turn there, master.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NONSENSE. I HAVE NEVER FELT BETTER. NOW, WHAT WERE WE TALKING ABOUT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert shrugged, and peered down at the entries in the book.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Goodie's a witch,' he said. 'She might get a bit annoyed if you send Mort.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>All practitioners of magic earned the right, once their own personal sands had run out, of being claimed by Death himself rather than his minor functionaries.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death didn't appear to hear Albert. He was staring at Princess Keli's hourglass again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS THAT SENSE INSIDE YOUR HEAD OF WISTFUL REGRET THAT THINGS ARE THE WAY THEY APPARENTLY ARE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sadness, master. I think. Now —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I AM SADNESS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert stood with his mouth open. Finally he got a grip on himself long enough to blurt out, 'Master, we were talking about Mort!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MORT WHO?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Your apprentice, master,' said Albert patiently. Tall young lad.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>OF COURSE. WELL, WE'LL SEND HIM.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is he ready to go solo, master?' said Albert doubtfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death thought about it. HE CAN DO IT, he said at last. HE'S KEEN, HE'S QUICK TO LEARN AND, REALLY, he added, PEOPLE CAN'T EXPECT TO HAVE ME RUNNING AROUND AFTER THEM ALL THE TIME.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared blankly at the velvet wall hangings a few inches from his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I've walked through a wall, he thought. And that's impossible.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gingerly moved the hangings aside to see if a door was lurking somewhere, but there was nothing but crumbling plaster which had cracked away in places to reveal some dampish but emphatically solid brickwork.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He prodded it experimentally. It was quite clear that he wasn't going back out that way.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well,' he said to the wall. 'What now?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A voice behind him said, 'Um. Excuse please?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned around slowly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Grouped around a table in the middle of the room was a Klatchian family of father, mother and half a dozen children of dwindling size. Eight pairs of round eyes were fixed on Mort. A ninth pair belonging to an aged grandparent of indeterminate sex weren't, because their owner had taken advantage of the interruption to get some elbow room at the communal rice bowl, taking the view that a boiled fish in the hand was worth any amount of unexplained manifestations, and the silence was punctuated by the sound of determined mastication.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In one corner of the crowded room was a little shrine to Offler, the six-armed Crocodile God of Klatch. It was grinning just like Death, except of course Death didn't have a flock of holy birds that brought him news of his worshippers and also kept his teeth clean.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Klatchians prize hospitality above all other virtues. As Mort stared the woman took another plate off the shelf behind her and silently began to fill it from the big bowl, snatching a choice cut of catfish from the ancient's hands after a brief struggle. Her kohl-rimmed eyes remained steadily on Mort, however.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was the father who had spoken. Mort bowed nervously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' he said. 'Er, I seem to have walked through this wall.' It was rather lame, he had to admit.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Please?' said the man. The woman, her bangles jangling, carefully arranged a few slices of pepper across the plate and sprinkled it with a dark green sauce that Mort was afraid he recognized. He'd tried it a few weeks before, and although it was a complicated recipe one taste had been enough to know that it was made out of fish entrails marinated for several years in a vat of shark bile. Death had said that it was an acquired taste. Mort had decided not to make the effort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He tried to sidle around the edge of the room towards the bead-hung doorway, all the heads turning to watch him. He tried a grin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The woman said: 'Why does the demon show his teeth, husband of my life?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The man said: 'It could be hunger, moon of my desire. Pile on more fish!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And the ancestor grumbled: 'I was eating that, wretched child. Woe unto the world when there is no respect for age!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now the fact is that while the words entered Mort's ear in their spoken Klatchian, with all the curlicues and subtle diphthongs of a language so ancient and sophisticated that it had fifteen words meaning 'assassination' before the rest of the world had caught on to the idea of bashing one another over the head with rocks, they arrived in his brain as clear and understandable as his mother tongue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm no demon! I'm a human!' he said, and stopped in shock as his words emerged in perfect Klatch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're a thief?' said the father. 'A murderer? To creep in thus, are you a <em class="calibre9">tax-gatherer</em>?' His hand slipped under the table and came up holding a meat cleaver honed to paper thinness. His wife screamed and dropped the plate and clutched the youngest children to her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort watched the blade weave through the air, and gave in.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I bring you greetings from the uttermost circles of hell,' he hazarded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The change was remarkable. The cleaver was lowered and the family broke into broad smiles.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There is much luck to us if a demon visits,' beamed the father. 'What is your wish, O foul spawn of Offler's loins?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A demon brings blessing and good fortune on the man that helps it,' said the man. 'How may we be of assistance, O evil dog's-breath of the nether pit?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, I'm not very hungry,' said Mort, 'but if you know where I can get a fast horse, I could be in Sto Lat before sunset.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The man beamed and bowed. 'I know the very place, noxious extrusion of the bowels, if you would be so good as to follow me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort hurried out after him. The ancient ancestor watched them go with a critical expression, its jowls rhythmically chewing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That was what they call a demon around here?' it said. 'Offler rot this country of dampness, even their demons are third-rate, not a patch on the demons we had in the Old Country.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wife placed a small bowl of rice in the folded middle pair of hands of the Offler statue (it would be gone in the morning) and stood back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Husband did say that last month at the <em class="calibre9">Curry</em><em class="calibre9">Gardens</em> he served a creature who was not there,' she said. 'He was impressed.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ten minutes later the man returned and, in solemn silence, placed a small heap of gold coins on the table. They represented enough wealth to purchase quite a large part of the city.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He had a bag of them,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The family stared at the money for some time. The wife sighed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Riches bring many problems,' she said. 'What are we to do?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We return to Klatch,' said the husband firmly, 'where our children can grow up in a proper country, true to the glorious traditions of our ancient race and men do not need to work as waiters for wicked masters but can stand tall and proud. And we must leave right now, fragrant blossom of the date palm.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why so soon, O hard-working son of the desert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Because,' said the man, 'I have just sold the Patrician's champion racehorse.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The horse wasn't as fine or as fast as Binky, but it swept the miles away under its hooves and easily outdistanced a few mounted guards who, for some reason, appeared anxious to talk to Mort. Soon the shanty suburbs of Morpork were left behind and the road ran out into rich black earth country of the Sto plain, constructed over eons by the periodic flooding of the great slow Ankh that brought to the region prosperity, security and chronic arthritis.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was also extremely boring. As the light distilled from silver to gold Mort galloped across a flat, chilly landscape, chequered with cabbage fields from edge to edge. There are many things to be said about cabbages. One may talk at length about their high vitamin content, their vital iron contribution, the valuable roughage and commendable food value. In the mass, however, they lack a certain something; despite their claim to immense nutritional and moral superiority over, say, daffodils, they have never been a sight to inspire the poet's muse. Unless he was hungry, of course. It was only twenty miles to Sto Lat, but in terms of meaningless human experience it seemed like two thousand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were guards on the gates of Sto Lat, although compared to the ones that patrolled Ankh they had a sheepish, amateurish look. Mort trotted past; and one of them, feeling a bit of a fool, asked him who went there.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm afraid I can't stop,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The guard was new to the job, and quite keen. Guarding wasn't what he'd been led to expect. Standing around all day in chain mail with an axe on a long pole wasn't what he'd volunteered for; he'd expected excitement and challenge and a crossbow and a uniform that didn't go rusty in the rain.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stepped forward, ready to defend the city against people who didn't respect commands given by duly authorized civic employees. Mort considered the pike blade hovering a few inches from his face. There was getting to be too much of this.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'On the other hand,' he said calmly, 'how would you like it if I made yon a present of this rather fine horse?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It wasn't hard to find the entrance to the castle. There were guards there, too, and they had crossbows and a considerably more unsympathetic outlook on life and, in any case, Mort had run out of horses. He loitered a bit until they started paying him a generous amount of attention, and then wandered disconsolately away into the streets of the little city, feeling stupid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After all this, after miles of brassicas and a backside that now felt like a block of wood, he didn't even know why he was there. So she'd seen him even when he was invisible? Did it mean anything? Of course it didn't. Only he kept seeing her face, and the flicker of hope in her eyes. He wanted to tell her that everything was going to be all right. He wanted to tell her about himself and everything he wanted to be. He wanted to find out which was her room in the castle and watch it all night until the light went out. And so on.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A little later a blacksmith, whose business was in one of the narrow streets that looked out on to the castle walls, glanced up from his work to see a tall, gangling young man, rather red in the face, who kept trying to walk through the walls.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Rather later than that a young man with a few superficial bruises on his head called in at one of the city's taverns and asked for directions to the nearest wizard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And it was later still that Mort turned up outside a peeling plaster house which announced itself on a blackened brass plaque to be the abode of Igneous Cutwell, DM (Unseen), Marster of the Infinit, Illuminartus, Wyzard to Princes, Gardian of the Sacred Portalls, If Out leave Maile with Mrs Nugent Next Door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Suitably impressed despite his pounding heart, Mort lifted the heavy knocker, which was in the shape of a repulsive gargoyle with a heavy iron ring in its mouth, and knocked twice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a brief commotion from within, the series of hasty domestic sounds that might, in a less exalted house, have been made by, say, someone shovelling the lunch plates into the sink and tidying the laundry out of sight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Eventually the door swung open, slowly and mysteriously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You'd better pretend to be impreffed,' said the doorknocker conversationally, but hampered somewhat by the ring. 'He does it with pulleys and a bit of ftring. No good at opening-fpells, fee?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked at the grinning metal face. I work for a skeleton who can walk through walls, he told himself. Who am I to be surprised at anything?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thank you,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're welcome. Wipe your feet on the doormat, it's the boot-fcraper's day off.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The big low room inside was dark and shadowy and smelled mainly of incense but slightly of boiled cabbage arid elderly laundry and the kind of person who throws all his socks at the wall and wears the ones that don't stick. There was a large crystal ball with a crack in it, an astrolabe with several bits missing, a rather scuffed octogram on the floor, and a stuffed alligator hanging from the ceiling. A stuffed alligator is absolutely standard equipment in any properly-run magical establishment. This one looked as though it hadn't enjoyed it much.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A bead curtain on the far wall was flung aside with a dramatic gesture and a hooded figure stood revealed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Beneficent constellations shine on the hour of our meeting!' it boomed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which ones?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a sudden worried silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which constellations would these be?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Beneficent ones,' said the figure, uncertainly. It rallied. 'Why do you trouble Igneous Cutwell, Holder of the Eight Keys, Traveller in the Dungeon Dimensions, Supreme Mage of —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me,' said Mort, 'are you really?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Really what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master of the thingy, Lord High Wossname of the Sacred Dungeons?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell pushed back his hood with an annoyed flourish. Instead of the grey-bearded mystic Mort had expected he saw a round, rather plump face, pink and white like a pork pie, which it somewhat resembled in other respects. For example, like most pork pies, it didn't have a beard and, like most pork pies, it looked basically good-humoured.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In a figurative sense,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What does that mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, it means no,' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But you said —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That was advertising,' said the wizard. 'It's a kind of magic I've been working on. What was it you were wanting, anyway?' He leered suggestively. 'A love philtre, yes? Something to encourage the young ladies?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it possible to walk through walls?' said Mort desperately. Cutwell paused with his hand already halfway to a large bottle full of sticky liquid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Using magic?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um,' said Mort, 'I don't think so.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then pick very thin walls,' said Cutwell. 'Better still, use the door. The one over there would be favourite, if you've just come here to waste my time.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort hesitated, and then put the bag of gold coins on the table. The wizard glanced at them, made a little whinnying noise in the back of his throat, and reached out, Mort's hand shot across and grabbed his wrist.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've walked through walls,' he said, slowly and deliberately.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Of course you have, of course you have,' mumbled Cutwell, not taking his eyes off the bag. He flicked the cork out of the bottle of blue liquid and took an absent-minded swig.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Only before I did it I didn't know that I could, and when I was doing it I didn't know I was, and now I've done it I can't remember how it was done. And I want to do it again.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Because,' said Mort, 'if I could walk through walls I could do anything.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Very deep,' agreed Cutwell. 'Philosophical. And the name of the young lady on the other side of this wall?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She's —' Mort swallowed. 'I don't know her name. Even if there is a girl,' he added haughtily, 'and I'm not saying there is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right,' said Cutwell. He took another swig, and shuddered. 'Fine. How to walk through walls. I'll do some research. It might be expensive, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort carefully picked up the bag and pulled out one small gold coin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A down payment,' he said, putting it on the table.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell picked up the coin as if he expected it to go bang or evaporate, and examined it carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've never seen this sort of coin before,' he said accusingly. 'What's all this curly writing?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's gold, though, isn't it?' said Mort. 'I mean, you don't have to accept it —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sure, sure, it's gold,' said Cutwell hurriedly. 'It's gold all right. I just wondered where it had come from, that's all.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You wouldn't believe me,' said Mort. 'What time's sunset around here?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We normally manage to fit it in between night and day,' said Cutwell, still staring at the coin and taking little sips from the blue bottle. 'About now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort glanced out of the window. The street outside already had a twilight look to it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'll be back,' he muttered, and made for the door. He heard the wizard call out something, but Mort was heading down the street at a dead run.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He started to panic. Death would be waiting for him forty miles away. There would be a row. There would be a terrible —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH, BOY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A familiar figure stepped out from the flare around a jellied eel stall, holding a plate of winkles.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE VINEGAR IS PARTICULARLY PIQUANT. HELP YOURSELF, I HAVE AN EXTRA PIN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But, of course, just because he was forty miles away didn't mean he wasn't here as well. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And in his untidy room Cutwell turned the gold coin over and over in his fingers, muttering 'walls' to himself, and draining the bottle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He appeared to notice what he was doing only when there was no more to drink, at which point his eyes focused on the bottle and, through a rising pink mist, read the label which said 'Granny Weatherwax's Ramrub Invigoratore and Passion's Philtre, Onne Spoonful Onlie before bed and that Smalle'.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'By myself?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>CERTAINLY. I HAVE EVERY FAITH IN YOU.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Gosh!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The suggestion put everything else out of Mort's mind, and he was rather surprised to find that he didn't feel particularly squeamish. He'd seen quite a few deaths in the last week or so, and all the horror went out of it when you knew you'd be speaking to the victim afterwards. Most of them were relieved, one or two of them were angry, but they were all glad of a few helpful words.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THINK YOU CAN DO IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, sir. Yes. I think.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT'S THE SPIRIT. I'VE LEFT BlNKY BY THE HORSETROUGH ROUND THE CORNER. TAKE HIM STRAIGHT HOME WHEN YOU'VE FINISHED.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're staying here, sir?' Death looked up and down the street. His eye-sockets flared.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I THOUGHT I MIGHT STROLL AROUND A BIT, he said mysteriously. I DON'T SEEM TO FEEL QUITE RIGHT. I COULD DO WITH THE FRESH AIR. He seemed to remember something, reached into the mysterious shadows of his cloak, and pulled out three hourglasses. ALL STRAIGHTFORWARD, he said. ENJOY YOURSELF.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned and strode off down the street, humming.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. Thank you,' said Mort. He held the hourglasses up to the light, noting the one that was on its very last few grains of sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does this mean I'm in charge?' he called, but Death had turned the corner.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky greeted him with a faint whinny of recognition. Mort mounted up, his heart pounding with apprehension and responsibility. His fingers worked automatically, taking the scythe out of its sheath and adjusting and locking the blade (which flashed steely blue in the night, slicing the starlight like salami). He mounted carefully, wincing at the stab from his saddlesores, but Binky was like riding a pillow. As an afterthought, drunk with delegated authority, he pulled Death's riding cloak out of its saddlebag and fastened it by its silver brooch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He took another look at the first hourglass, and nudged Binky with his knees. The horse sniffed the chilly air, and began to trot.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Behind them Cutwell burst out of his doorway, accelerating down the frosty street with his robes flying out behind him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now the horse was cantering, widening the distance between its hooves and the cobbles. With a swish of its tail it cleared the housetops and floated up into the chilly sky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell ignored it. He had more pressing things on his mind. He took a flying leap and landed full length in the freezing waters of the horsetrough, lying back gratefully among the bobbing ice splinters. After a while the water began to steam. Mort kept low for the sheer exhilaration of the speed. The sleeping countryside roared soundlessly underneath. Binky moved at an easy gallop, his great muscles sliding under his skin as easily as alligators off a sandbank, his mane whipping in Mort's face. The night swirled away from the speeding edge of the scythe, cut into two curling halves.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They sped under the moonlight as silent as a shadow, visible only to cats and people who dabbled in things men were not meant to wot of.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort couldn't remember afterwards, but very probably he laughed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Soon the frosty plains gave way to the broken lands around the mountains, and then the marching ranks of the Ramtops themselves raced across the world towards them. Binky put his head down and opened his stride, aiming for a pass between two mountains as sharp as goblins' teeth in the silver light. Somewhere a wolf howled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort took another look at the hourglass. Its frame was carved with oak leaves and mandrake roots, and the sand inside, even by moonlight, was pale gold. By turning the glass this way and that, he could just make out the name 'Ammeline Hamstring' etched in the faintest of lines.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky slowed to a canter. Mort looked down at the roof of a forest, dusted with snow that was either early or very, very late; it could have been either, because the Ramtops hoarded their weather and doled it out with no real reference to the time of year.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A gap opened up beneath them. Binky slowed again, wheeled around and descended towards a clearing that was white with drifted snow. It was circular, with a tiny cottage in the exact middle. If the ground around it hadn't been covered in snow, Mort would have noticed that there were no tree stumps to be seen; the trees hadn't been cut down in the circle, they'd simply been discouraged from growing there. Or had moved away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Candlelight spilled from one downstairs window, making a pale orange pool on the snow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky touched down smoothly and trotted across the freezing crust without sinking. He left no hoofprints, of course.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort dismounted and walked towards the door, muttering to himself and making experimental sweeps with the scythe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The cottage roof had been built with wide eaves, to shed snow and cover the logpile. No dweller in the high Ramtops would dream of starting a winter without a logpile on three sides of the house. But there wasn't a logpile here, even though spring was still a long way off.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was, however, a bundle of hay in a net by the door. It had a note attached, written in big, slightly shaky capitals: FOR THEE HORS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It would have worried Mort if he'd let it. Someone was expecting him. He'd learned in recent days, though, that rather than drown in uncertainty it was best to surf right over the top of it. Anyway, Binky wasn't worried by moral scruples and bit straight in.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It did leave the problem of whether to knock. Somehow, it didn't seem appropriate. Supposing no one answered, or told him to go away?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So he lifted the thumb latch and pushed at the door. It swung inwards quite easily, without a creak.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a low-ceilinged kitchen, its beams at trepanning height for Mort. The light from the solitary candle glinted off crockery on a long dresser and flagstones that had been scrubbed and polished into iridescence. The fire in the cave-like inglenook didn't add much light, because it was no more than a heap of white ash under the remains of a log. Mort knew, without being told, that it was the last log.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An elderly lady was sitting at the kitchen table, writing furiously with her hooked nose only a few inches from the paper. A grey cat curled on the table beside her blinked calmly at Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The scythe bumped off a beam. The woman looked up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Be with you in a minute,' she said. She frowned at the paper. 'I haven't put in the bit about being of sound mind and body yet, lot of foolishness anyway, no one sound in mind and body would be dead. Would you like a drink?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon?' said Mort. He recalled himself, and repeated 'PARDON?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If you drink, that is. It's raspberry port. On the dresser. You might as well finish the bottle.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort eyed the dresser suspiciously. He felt he'd rather lost the initiative. He pulled out the hourglass and glared at it. There was a little heap of sand left.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There's still a few minutes yet,' said the witch, without looking up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How, I mean, HOW DO YOU KNOW?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She ignored him, and dried the ink in front of the candle, sealed the letter with a drip of wax, and tucked it under the candlestick. Then she picked up the cat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Granny Beedle will be around directly tomorrow to tidy up and you're to go with her, understand? And see she lets Gammer Nutley have the pink marble washstand, she's had her eye on it for years.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The cat yawped knowingly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I haven't, that is, I HAVEN'T GOT ALL NIGHT, YOU KNOW,' said Mort reproachfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You have, I haven't, and there's no need to shout,' said the witch. She slid off her stall and then Mort saw how bent she was, like a bow. With some difficulty she unhooked a tall pointed hat from its nail on the wall, skewered it into place on her white hair with a battery of hatpins, and grasped two walking sticks.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She tottered across the floor towards Mort, and looked up at him with eyes as small and bright as blackcurrants.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Will I need my shawl? Shall I need a shawl, d'you think? No, I suppose not. I imagine it's quite warm where I'm going.' She peered closely at Mort, and frowned.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're rather <em class="calibre9">younger</em> than I imagined,' she said. Mort said nothing. Then Goodie Hamstring said, quietly, 'You know, I don't think you're who I was expecting at all.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort cleared his throat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who were you expecting, precisely?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Death,' said the witch, simply. 'It's part of the arrangement, you see. One gets to know the time of one's death in advance, and one is guaranteed — personal attention.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm it,'said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The personal attention. He sent me. I work for him. No one else would have me.' Mort paused. This was all wrong. He'd be sent home again in disgrace. His first bit of responsibility, and he'd ruined it. He could already hear people laughing at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wail started in the depths of his embarrassment and blared out like a foghorn. 'Only this is my first real job and it's all gone wrong!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The scythe fell to the floor with a clatter, slicing a piece off the table leg and cutting a flagstone in half.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Goodie watched him for some time, with her head on one side. Then she said, 'I see. What is your name, young man?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' sniffed Mort. 'Short for Mortimer.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, Mort, I expect you've got an hourglass somewhere about your person,'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded vaguely. He reached down to his belt and produced the glass. The witch inspected it critically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Still a minute or so,' she said. 'We don't have much time to lose. Just give me a moment to lock...'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But you don't understand!' Mort wailed. 'I'll mess it all up! I've never done this before!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She patted his hand. 'Neither have I,' she said. 'We can learn together. Now pick up the scythe and try to act your age, there's a good boy.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Against his protestations she shooed him out into the snow and followed behind him, pulling the door shut and locking it with a heavy iron key which she hung on a nail by the door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The frost had tightened its grip on the forest, squeezing it until the roots creaked. The moon was setting, but the sky was full of hard white stars that made the winter seem colder still. Goodie Hamstring shivered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's an old log over there,' she said conversationally. 'There's quite a good view across the valley. In the summertime, of course. I should like to sit down.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort helped her through the drifts and brushed as much snow as possible off the wood. They sat down with the hourglass between them. Whatever the view might have been in the summer, it now consisted of black rocks against a sky from which little flakes of snow were now tumbling.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can't believe all this,' said Mort. 'I mean you sound as if you want to die.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's some things I shall miss,' she said. 'But it gets thin, you know. Life, I'm referring to. You can't trust your own body any more, and it's time to move on. I reckon it's about time I tried something else. Did he tell you magical folk can see him all the time?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' said Mort, inaccurately.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, we can.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He doesn't like wizards and witches much,' Mort volunteered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nobody likes a smartass,' she said with some satisfaction. 'We give him trouble, you see. Priests don't, so he likes priests.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's never said,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. They're always telling folk how much better it's going to be when they're dead. <em class="calibre9">We</em> tell them it could be pretty good right here if only they'd put their minds to it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort hesitated. He wanted to say: you're wrong, he's not like that at all, he doesn't care if people are good or bad so long as they're punctual. And kind to cats, he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But he thought better of it. It occurred to him that people needed to believe things.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wolf howled again, so near that Mort looked around apprehensively. Another one across the valley answered it. The chorus was picked up by a couple of others in the depths of the forest. Mort had never heard anything so mournful.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He glanced sideways at the still figure of Goodie Hamstring and then, with mounting panic, at the hourglass. He sprang to his feet, snatched up the scythe, and brought it around in a two-handed swing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The witch stood up, leaving her body behind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well done,' she said. 'I thought you'd missed it, for a minute, there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort leaned against a tree, panting heavily, and watched Goodie walk around the log to look at herself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm,' she said critically. 'Time has got a lot to answer for.' She raised her hand and laughed to see the stars through it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then she changed. Mort had seen this happen before, when the soul realized it was no longer bound by the body's morphic field, but never under such control. Her hair unwound itself from its tight bun, changing colour and lengthening. Her body straightened up. Wrinkles dwindled and vanished. Her grey woollen dress moved like the surface of the sea and ended up tracing entirely different and disturbing contours.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She looked down, giggled, and changed the dress into something leaf-green and clingy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What do you think, Mort?' she said. Her voice had sounded cracked and quavery before. Now it suggested musk and maple syrup and other things that set Mort's adam's apple bobbing like a rubber ball on an elastic band.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'. . .' he managed, and gripped the scythe until his knuckles went white.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She walked towards him like a snake in a four-wheel drift.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I didn't hear you,' she purred.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'V-v-very nice,' he said. 'Is that who you were?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's who I've always been.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Mort stared at his feet. 'I'm supposed to take you away,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know,' she said, 'but I'm going to stay.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can't do that! I mean —' he fumbled for words — 'you see, if you stay you sort of spread out and get thinner, until —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall enjoy it,' she said firmly. She leaned forward and gave him a kiss as insubstantial as a mayfly's sigh, fading as she did so until only the kiss was left, just like a Cheshire cat only much more erotic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have a care, Mort,' said her voice in his head. 'You may want to hold on to your job, but will you ever be able to let go?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stood idiotically holding his cheek. The trees around the clearing trembled for a moment, there was the sound of laughter on the breeze, and then the freezing silence closed in again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Duty called out to him through the pink mists in his head. He grabbed the second glass and stared at it. The sand was nearly all gone.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The glass itself was patterned with lotus petals. When Mort flicked it with his finger it went 'Ommm'.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He ran across the crackling snow to Binky and hurled himself into the saddle. The horse threw up his head, reared, and launched itself towards the stars.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Great silent streamers of blue and green flame hung from the roof of the world. Curtains of octarine glow danced slowly and majestically over the Disc as the fire of the Aurora Coriolis, the vast discharge of magic from the Disc's standing field, earthed itself in the green ice mountains of the Hub.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The central spire of Cori Celesti, home of the gods, was a ten mile high column of cold coruscating fire.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was a sight seen by few people, and Mort wasn't one of them, because he lay low over Binky's neck and clung on for his life as they pounded through the night sky ahead of a comet trail of steam.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were other mountains clustered around Cori. By comparison they were no more than termite mounds, although in reality each one was a majestic assortment of cols, ridges, faces, cliffs, screes and glaciers that any normal mountain range would be happy to associate with.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Among the highest of them, at the end of a funnel-shaped valley, dwelt the Listeners.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They were one of the oldest of the Disc's religious sects, although even the gods themselves were divided as to whether Listening was really a proper religion, and all that prevented their temple being wiped out by a few well-aimed avalanches was the fact that even the gods were curious as to what it was that the Listeners might Hear. If there's one thing that really annoys a god, it's not knowing something.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It'll take Mort several minutes to arrive. A row of dots would fill in the time nicely, but the reader will already be noticing the strange shape of the temple — curled like a great white ammonite at the end of the valley — and will probably want an explanation.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The fact is that the Listeners are trying to work out precisely what it was that the Creator said when He made the universe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The theory is quite straightforward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Clearly, nothing that the Creator makes could ever be destroyed, which means that the echoes of those first syllables must still be around somewhere, bouncing and rebounding off all the matter in the cosmos but still audible to a really good listener.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Eons ago the Listeners had found that ice and chance had carved this one valley into the perfect acoustic opposite of an echo valley, and had built their multi-chambered temple in the exact position that the one comfy chair always occupies in the home of a rabid hi-fi fanatic. Complex baffles caught and amplified the sound that was funnelled up the chilly valley, steering it ever inwards to the central chamber where, at any hour of the day or night, three monks always sat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Listening.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were certain problems caused by the fact that they didn't hear only the subtle echoes of the first words, but every other sound made on the Disc. In order to recognize the sound of the Words, they had to learn to recognize all the other noises. This called for a certain talent, and a novice was only accepted for training if he could distinguish by sound alone, at a distance of a thousand yards, which side a dropped coin landed. He wasn't actually accepted into the order until he could tell what colour it was.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And although the Holy Listeners were so remote, many people took the extremely long and dangerous path to their temple, traveling through frozen, troll-haunted lands, fording swift icy rivers, climbing forbidding mountains, trekking across inhospitable tundra, in order to climb the narrow stairway that led into the hidden valley and seek with an open heart the secrets of being.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And the monks would cry unto them, 'Keep the bloody noise down!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky came through the mountain tops like a white blur, touching down in the snowy emptiness of a courtyard made spectral by the disco light from the sky. Mort leapt from his back and ran through the silent cloisters to the room where the 88th abbot lay dying, surrounded by his devout followers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's footsteps boomed as he hurried across the intricate mosaic floor. The monks themselves wore woollen overshoes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He reached the bed and waited for a moment, leaning on the scythe, until he could get his breath back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The abbot, who was small and totally bald and had more wrinkles than a sackful of prunes, opened his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're late,' he whispered, and died.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swallowed, fought for breath, and brought the scythe around in a slow arc. Nevertheless, it was accurate enough; the abbot sat up, leaving his corpse behind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not a moment too soon,' he said, in a voice only Mort could hear. 'You had me worried for a moment there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Okay?' said Mort. 'Only I've got to rush —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The abbot swung himself off the bed and walked towards Mort through the ranks of his bereaved followers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't rush off,' he said. 'I always look forward to these talks. What's happened to the usual fellow?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Usual fellow?' said Mort, bewildered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Tall chap. Black cloak. Doesn't get enough to eat, by the look of him,' said the abbot.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'Usual</span>
        </em>
        <span> fellow? You mean <em class="calibre9">Death</em>?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's him,' said the abbot, cheerfully. Mort's mouth hung open.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Die a lot, do you?' he managed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A fair bit. A fair bit. Of course,' said the abbot, 'once you get the hang of it, it's only a matter of practice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It is?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We must be off,' said the abbot. Mort's mouth snapped shut.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's what I've been trying to say,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'So if you could just drop me off down in the valley,' the little monk continued placidly. He swept past Mort and headed for the courtyard. Mort stared at the floor for a moment, and then ran after him in a way which he knew to be extremely unprofessional and undignified.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Now look —' he began.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The other one had a horse called Binky, I remember,' said the abbot pleasantly. 'Did you buy the round off him?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The round?' said Mort, now completely lost.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Or whatever. Forgive me,' said the abbot, 'I don't really know how these things are organized, lad.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort, absently. 'And I think you're supposed to come back with me, sir. If you don't mind,' he added, in what he hoped was a firm and authoritative manner. The monk turned and smiled pleasantly at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wish I could,' he said. 'Perhaps one day. Now, if you could give me a lift as far as the nearest village, I imagine I'm being conceived about now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Conceived? But you've just died!' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but, you see, I have what you might call a season ticket,' the abbot explained.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Light dawned on Mort, but very slowly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh,' he said, 'I've read about this. Reincarnation, yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's the word. Fifty-three times so far. Or fifty-four.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky looked up as they approached and gave a short neigh of recognition when the abbot patted his nose. Mort mounted up and helped the abbot up behind him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It must be very interesting,' he said, as Binky climbed away from the temple. On the absolute scale of small talk this comment must rate minus quite a lot, but Mort couldn't think of anything better.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, it mustn't,' said the abbot. 'You think it must be because you believe I can remember all my lives, but of course I can't. Not while I'm alive, anyway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hadn't thought of that,' Mort conceded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Imagine toilet training fifty times.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nothing to look back on, I imagine,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're right. If I had my time all over again I wouldn't reincarnate. And just when I'm getting the hang of things, the lads come down from the temple looking for a boy conceived at the hour the old abbot died. Talk about unimaginative. Stop here a moment, please.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We're in mid-air,' he said doubtfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I won't keep you a minute.' The abbot slid down from Binky's back, walked a few steps on thin air, and shouted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It seemed to go on for a long time. Then the abbot climbed back again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't know how long I've been looking forward to that,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a village in a lower valley a few miles from the temple, which acted as a sort of service industry. From the air it was a random scattering of small but extremely well-soundproofed huts.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Anywhere will do,' the abbot said. Mort left him standing a few feet above the snow at a point where the huts appeared to be thickest.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hope the next lifetime improves,' he said. The abbot shrugged.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'One can always hope,' he said. 'I get a nine-month break, anyway. The scenery isn't much, but at least it's in the warm.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Goodbye, then,' said Mort. 'I've got to rush.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Au revoir,' said the abbot, sadly, and turned away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The fires of the Hub Lights were still casting their flickering illumination across the landscape. Mort sighed, and reached for the third glass.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The container was silver, decorated with small crowns. There was hardly any sand left.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort, feeling that the night had thrown everything at him and couldn't get any worse, turned it around carefully to get a glimpse of the name. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Princess Keli awoke.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There had been a sound like someone making no noise at all. Forget peas and mattresses — sheer natural selection had established over the years that the royal families that survived longest were those whose members could distinguish an assassin in the dark by the noise he was clever enough not to make, because, in court circles, there was always someone ready to cut the heir with a knife.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She lay in bed, wondering what to do next. There was a dagger under her pillow. She started to slide one hand up the sheets, while peering around the room with half-closed eyes in search of unfamiliar shadows. She was well aware that if she indicated in any way that she was not asleep she would never wake up again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some light came into the room from the big window at the far end, but the suits of armour, tapestries and assorted paraphernalia that littered the room could have provided cover for an army.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The knife had dropped down behind the bed head. She probably wouldn't have used it properly anyway.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Screaming for the guards, she decided, was not a good idea. If there was anyone in the room then the guards must have been overpowered, or at least stunned by a large sum of money.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a warming pan on the flagstones by the fire. Would it make a weapon?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a faint metallic sound.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Perhaps screaming wouldn't be such a bad idea after all. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The window imploded. For an instant Keli saw, framed against a hell of blue and purple flames, a hooded figure crouched on the back of the largest horse she had ever seen.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There <em class="calibre9">was</em> someone standing by the bed, with a knife half raised.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In slow motion, she watched fascinated as the arm went up and the horse galloped at glacier speed across the floor. Now the knife was above her, starting its descent, and the horse was rearing and the rider was standing in the stirrups and swinging some sort of weapon and its blade tore through the slow air with a noise like a finger on the rim of a wet glass —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The light vanished. There was a soft thump on the floor, followed by a metallic clatter.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli took a deep breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A hand was briefly laid across her mouth and a worried voice said, 'If you scream, I'll regret it. Please? I'm in enough trouble as it is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Anyone who could get that amount of bewildered pleading into their voice was either genuine or such a good actor they wouldn't have to bother with assassination for a living. She said, 'Who are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know if I'm allowed to tell you,' said the voice. 'You are still alive, aren't you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She bit down the sarcastic reply just in time. Something about the tone of the question worried her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can't you tell?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's not easy. . . .' There was a pause. She strained to see in the darkness, to put a face around that voice. 'I may have done you some terrible harm,' it added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Haven't you just saved my life?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know what I have saved, actually. Is there some light around here?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid sometimes leaves matches on the mantelpiece,' said Keli. She felt the presence beside her move away. There were a few hesitant footsteps, a couple of thumps, and finally a clang, although the word isn't sufficient to describe the real ripe cacophony of falling metal that filled the room. It was even followed by the traditional little tinkle a couple of seconds after you thought it was all over.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The voice said, rather indistinctly, 'I'm under a suit of armour. Where should I be?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli slid quietly out of bed, felt her way towards the fireplace, located the bundle of matches by the faint light from the dying fire, struck one in a burst of sulphurous smoke, lit a candle, found the pile of dismembered armour, pulled its sword from its scabbard and then nearly swallowed her tongue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Someone had just blown hot and wetly in her ear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's Binky,' said the heap. 'He's just trying to be friendly. I expect he'd like some hay, if you've got any.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>With royal self-control, Keli said, This is the fourth floor. It's a lady's bedroom. You'd be amazed at how many horses we don't get up here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Could you help me up, please?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She put the sword down and pulled aside a breastplate. A thin white face stared back at her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'First, you'd better tell me why I shouldn't send for the guards anyway,' she said. 'Even being in my bedroom could get you tortured to death.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She glared at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finally he said, 'Well — could you let my hand free, please? Thank you — firstly, the guards probably wouldn't see me, secondly, you'll never find out why I'm here and you look as though you'd hate not to know, and thirdly. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Thirdly what?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His mouth opened and shut. Mort wanted to say: thirdly, you're so beautiful, or at least very attractive, or anyway far more attractive than any other girl I've ever met, although admittedly I haven't met very many. From this it will be seen that Mort's innate honesty will never make him a poet; if Mort ever compared a girl to a summer's day, it would be followed by a thoughtful explanation of what day he had in mind and whether it was raining at the time. In the circumstances, it was just as well that he couldn't find his voice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli held up the candle and looked at the window.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was whole. The stone frames were unbroken. Every pane, with its stained-glass representatives of the Sto Lat coat of arms, was complete. She looked back at Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Never mind thirdly,' she said, 'let's get back to secondly.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An hour later dawn reached the city. Daylight on the Disc flows rather than rushes, because light is slowed right down by the world's standing magical field, and it rolled across the flat lands like a golden sea. The city on the mound stood out like a sandcastle in the tide for a moment, until the day swirled around it and crept onwards.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort and Keli sat side by side on her bed. The hourglass lay between them. There was no sand left in the top bulb.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>From outside came the sounds of the castle waking up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I still don't understand this,' she said. 'Does it mean I'm dead, or doesn't it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It means you ought to be dead,' he said, 'according to fate or whatever. I haven't really studied the theory,'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And you should have killed me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No! I mean, no, the assassin should have killed you. I did try to explain all that,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why didn't you let him?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked at her in horror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you <em class="calibre9">want</em> to die?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Of course I didn't. But it looks as though what people want doesn't come into it, does it? I'm trying to be sensible about this.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared at his knees. Then he stood up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think I'd better be going,' he said coldly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He folded up the scythe and stuck it into its sheath behind the saddle. Then he looked at the window.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You came through that,' said Keli, helpfully. 'Look, when I said —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does it open?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. There's a balcony along the passage. But people will see you!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort ignored her, pulled open the door and led Binky out into the corridor. Keli ran after them. A maid stopped, curtsied, and frowned slightly as her brain wisely dismissed the sight of a very large horse walking along the carpet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The balcony overlooked one of the inner courtyards. Mort glanced over the parapet, and then mounted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Watch out for the duke,' he said. 'He's behind all this.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My father always warned me about him,' said the princess. 'I've got a food taster.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You should get a bodyguard as well,' said Mort. 'I must go. I have important things to do. Farewell,' he added, in what he hoped was the right tone of injured pride.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Shall I see you again?' said Keli. 'There's lots I want to —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That might not be a good idea, if you think about it,' said Mort haughtily. He clicked his tongue, and Binky leapt into the air, cleared the parapet and cantered up into the blue morning sky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wanted to say thank you!' Keli yelled after him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid, who couldn't get over the feeling that something was wrong and had followed her, said, 'Are you all right, ma'am?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli looked at her distractedly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' she demanded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I just wondered if — everything was all right?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli's shoulders sagged.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' she said. 'Everything's all wrong. There's a dead assassin in my bedroom. Could you please have something done about it?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And —' she held up a hand — 'I don't want you to say "Dead, ma'am?" or "Assassin, ma'am?" or scream or anything, I just want you to get something done about it. Quietly. I think I've got a headache. So just nod.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid nodded, bobbed uncertainly, and backed away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort wasn't sure how he got back. The sky simply changed from ice blue to sullen grey as Binky eased himself into the gap between dimensions. He didn't land on the dark soil of Death's estate, it was simply <em class="calibre9">there</em>, underfoot, as though an aircraft carrier had gently manoeuvred itself under a jump jet to save the pilot all the trouble of touching down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The great horse trotted into the stableyard and halted outside the double door, swishing his tail. Mort slid off and ran for the house.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And stopped, and ran back, and filled the hayrack, and ran for the house, and stopped and muttered to himself and ran back and rubbed the horse down and checked the water bucket, and ran for the house, and ran back and fetched the horse blanket down from its hook on the wall and buckled it on. Binky gave him a dignified nuzzle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>No one seemed to be about as Mort slipped in by the back door and made his way to the library, where even at this time of night the air seemed to be made of hot dry dust. It seemed to take years to locate Princess Keli's biography, but he found it eventually. It was a depressingly slim volume on a shelf only reachable by the library ladder, a wheeled rickety structure that strongly resembled an early siege engine.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>With trembling fingers he opened it at the last page, and groaned.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The princess's assassination at the age of fifteen,' he read, 'was followed by the union of Sto Lat with Sto Helit and, indirectly, the collapse of the city states of the central plain and the rise of—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He read on, unable to stop. Occasionally he groaned again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finally he put the book back, hesitated, and then shoved it behind a few other volumes. He could still feel it there as he climbed down the ladder, shrieking its incriminating existence to the world.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were few ocean-going ships on the Disc. No captain liked to venture out of sight of a coastline. It was a sorry fact that ships which looked from a distance as though they were going over the edge of the world weren't in fact disappearing over the horizon, they were in fact dropping over the edge of the world.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Every generation or so a few enthusiastic explorers doubted this and set out to prove it wrong. Strangely enough, none of them had ever come back to announce the result of their researches.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The following analogy would, therefore, have been meaningless to Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt as if he'd been shipwrecked on the <em class="calibre9">Titanic</em> but in the nick of time had been rescued. By the <em class="calibre9">Lusitonia</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt as though he'd thrown a snowball on the spur of the moment and watched the ensuing avalanche engulf three ski resorts.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt history unravelling all around him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt he needed someone to talk to, quickly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That had to mean either Albert or Ysabell, because the thought of explaining everything to those tiny blue pinpoints was not one he cared to contemplate after a long night. On the rare occasions Ysabell deigned to look in his direction she made it clear that the only difference between Mort and a dead toad was the colour. As for Albert. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>All right, not the perfect confidant, but definitely the best in a field of one.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort slid down the steps and threaded his way back through the bookshelves. A few hours' sleep would be a good idea, too.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then he heard a gasp, the brief patter of running feet, and the slam of a door. When he peered around the nearest bookcase there was nothing there except a stool with a couple of books on it. He picked one up and glanced at the name, then read a few pages. There was a damp lace handkerchief lying next to it.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort rose late, and hurried towards the kitchen expecting at any moment the deep tones of disapproval. Nothing happened.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert was at the stone sink, gazing thoughtfully at his chip pan, probably wondering whether it was time to change the fat or let it bide for another year. He turned as Mort slid into a chair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You had a busy turn of it, then,' he said. 'Gallivanting all over the place until all hours, I heard. I could do you an egg. Or there's porridge.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Egg, please,' said Mort. He'd never plucked up the courage to try Albert's porridge, which led a private life of its own in the depths of its saucepan and ate spoons.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The master wants to see you after,' Albert added, 'but he said you wasn't to rush.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Mort stared at the table. 'Did he say anything else?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He said he hadn't had an evening off in a thousand years,' said Albert. 'He was humming. I don't like it. I've never seen him like this.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Mort took the plunge. 'Albert, have you been here long?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert looked at him over the top of his spectacles.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Maybe,' he said. 'It's hard to keep track of outside time, boy. I bin here since just after the old king died.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which king, Albert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Artorollo, I think he was called. Little fat man. Squeaky voice. I only saw him the once, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where was this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In Ankh, of course.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' said Mort. They don't have kings in Ankh-Morpork, everyone knows that!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This was back a bit, I said,' said Albert. He poured himself a cup of tea from Death's personal teapot and sat down, a dreamy look in his crusted eyes. Mort waited expectantly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And they was kings in those days, real kings, not like the sort you get now. They was <em class="calibre9">monarchs</em>,' continued Albert, carefully pouring some tea into his saucer and fanning it primly with the end of his muffler. 'I mean, they was wise and fair, well, fairly wise. And they wouldn't think twice about cutting your head off soon as look at you,' he added approvingly. 'And all the queens were tall and pale and wore them balaclava helmet things —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Wimples?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeah, them, and the princesses were beautiful as the day is long and so noble they, they could pee through a dozen mattresses —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert hesitated. 'Something like that, anyway,' he conceded. 'And there was balls and tournaments and executions. Great days.' He smiled dreamily at his memories.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not like the sort of days you get now,' he said, emerging from his reverie with bad grace.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have you got any other names, Albert?' said Mort. But the brief spell had been broken and the old man wasn't going to be drawn.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, I know,' he snapped, 'get Albert's name and you'll go and look him up in the library, won't you? Prying and poking. I know you, skulking in there at all hours reading the lives of young wimmen —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The heralds of guilt must have flourished their tarnished trumpets in the depths of Mort's eyes, because Albert cackled and prodded him with a bony finger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You might at least put them back where you find 'em,' he said, 'not leave piles of 'em around for old Albert to put back. Anyway, it's not right, ogling the poor dead things. It probably turns you blind.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But I only —' Mort began, and remembered the damp lace handkerchief in his pocket, and shut up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He left Albert grumbling to himself and doing the washing up, and slipped into the library. Pale sunlight lanced down from the high windows, gently fading the covers on the patient, ancient volumes. Occasionally a speck of dust would catch the light as it floated through the golden shafts, and flare like a miniature supernova.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort knew that if he listened hard enough he could hear the insect-like scritching of the books as they wrote themselves.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Once upon a time Mort would have found it eerie. Now it was — reassuring. It demonstrated that the universe was running smoothly. His conscience, which had been looking for the opening, gleefully reminded him that, all right, it might be running smoothly but it certainly wasn't heading in the right direction.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He made his way through the maze of shelves to the mysterious pile of books, and found it was gone. Albert had been in the kitchen, and Mort had never seen Death himself enter the library. What was Ysabell looking for, then?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He glanced up at the cliff of shelves above him, and his stomach went cold when he thought of what was starting to happen. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was nothing for it. He'd have to tell someone.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli, meanwhile, was also finding life difficult.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This was because causality had an incredible amount of inertia. Mort's misplaced thrust, driven by anger and desperation and nascent love, had sent it down a new track but it hadn't noticed yet. He'd kicked the tail of the dinosaur, but it would be some time before the other end realized it was time to say 'ouch'.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Bluntly, the universe knew Keli was dead and was therefore rather surprised to find that she hadn't stopped walking and breathing yet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It showed it in little ways. The courtiers who gave her furtive odd looks during the morning would not have been able to say why the sight of her made them feel strangely uncomfortable. To their acute embarrassment and her annoyance they found themselves ignoring her, or talking in hushed voices.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Chamberlain found he'd instructed that the royal standard be flown at half mast and for the life of him couldn't explain why. He was gently led off to his bed with a mild nervous affliction after ordering a thousand yards of black bunting for no apparent reason.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The eerie, unreal feeling soon spread throughout the castle. The head coachman ordered the state bier to be brought out again and polished, and then stood in the stable yard and wept into his chamois leather because he couldn't remember why. Servants walked softly along the corridors. The cook had to fight an overpowering urge to prepare simple banquets of cold meat. Dogs howled and then stopped, feeling rather stupid. The two black stallions who traditionally pulled the Sto Lat funeral cortege grew restive in their stalls and nearly kicked a groom to death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In his castle in Sto Helit, the duke waited in vain for a messenger who had in fact set out, but had stopped halfway down the street, unable to remember what it was he was supposed to be doing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Through all this Keli moved like a solid and increasingly more irritated ghost.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Things came to a head at lunchtime. She swept into the great hall and found no place had been set in front of the royal chair. By speaking loudly and distinctly to the butler she managed to get that rectified, then saw dishes being passed in front of her before she could get a fork into them. She watched in sullen disbelief as the wine was brought in and poured first for the Lord of the Privy Closet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was an unregal thing to do, but she stuck out a foot and tripped the wine waiter. He stumbled, muttered something under his breath, and stared down at the flagstones.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She leaned the other way and shouted into the ear of the Yeoman of the Pantry: 'Can you see me, man? Why are we reduced to eating cold pork and ham?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned aside from his hushed conversation with the Lady of the Small Hexagonal Room in the North Turret, gave her a long look in which shock made way for a sort of unfocused puzzlement, and said, 'Why, yes . . . I can . . . er. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Your Royal Highness,' prompted Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But . . . yes . . . Highness,' he muttered. There was a heavy pause.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then, as if switched back on, he turned his back on her and resumed his conversation.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli sat for a while, white with shock and anger, then pushed the chair back and stormed away to her chambers. A couple of servants sharing a quick rollup in the passage outside were knocked sideways by something they couldn't quite see.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli ran into her room and hauled on the rope that should have sent the duty maid running in from the sitting room at the end of the corridor. Nothing happened for some time, and then the door was pushed open slowly and a face peered in at her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She recognized the look this time, and was ready for it. She grabbed the maid by the shoulders and hauled her bodily into the room, slamming the door shut behind her. As the frightened woman stared everywhere but at Keli she hauled off and fetched her a stinging slap across the cheek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you feel that? Did you feel it?' she shrieked.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But . . . you . . .' the maid whimpered, staggering backwards until she hit the bed and sitting down heavily on it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look at me! Look at me when I talk to you!' yelled Keli, advancing on her. 'You can see me, can't you? Tell me you can see me or I'll have you executed!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid stared into her terrified eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can see you,' she said, 'but. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But what? But what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Surely you're . . . I heard . . . I thought. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you think?' snapped Keli. She wasn't shouting any more. Her words came out like white-hot whips.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid collapsed into a sobbing heap. Keli stood tapping her foot for a moment, and then shook the woman gently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is there a wizard in the city?' she said. 'Look at me, <em class="calibre9">at me</em>. There's a wizard, isn't there? You girls are always skulking off to talk to wizards! Where does he live?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The woman turned a tear-stained face towards her, fighting against every instinct that told her the princess didn't exist.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Uh . . . wizard, yes . . . Cutwell, in Wall Street.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli's lips compressed into a thin smile. She wondered where her cloaks were kept, but cold reason told her it was going to be a damn sight easier to find them herself than try to make her presence felt to the maid. She waited, watching closely, as the woman stopped sobbing, looked around her in vague bewilderment, and hurried out of the room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She's forgotten me already, she thought. She looked at her hands. She seemed solid enough.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It had to be magic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She wandered into her robing room and experimentally opened a few cupboards until she found a black cloak and hood. She slipped them on and darted out into the corridor and down the servants' stairs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She hadn't been this way since she was little. This was the world of linen cupboards, bare floors and dumb-waiters. It smelled of slightly stale crusts.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli moved through it like an earthbound spook. She was aware of the servants' quarters, of course, in the same way that people are aware at some level in their minds of the drains or the guttering, and she would be quite prepared to concede that although servants all looked pretty much alike they must have some distinguishing features by which their nearest and dearest could, presumably, identify them. But she was not prepared for sights like Moghedron the wine butler, whom she had hitherto seen only as a stately presence moving like a galleon under full sail, sitting in his pantry with his jacket undone and smoking a pipe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A couple of maids ran past her without a second glance, giggling. She hurried on, aware that in some strange way she was trespassing in her own castle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And that, she realized, was because it wasn't her castle at all. The noisy world around her, with its steaming laundries and chilly stillrooms, was its own world. She couldn't own it. Possibly it owned her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She took a chicken leg from the table in the biggest kitchen, a cavern lined with so many pots that by the light of its fires it looked like an armoury for tortoises, and felt the unfamiliar thrill of theft. Theft! In her own kingdom! And the cook looked straight through her, eyes as glazed as jugged ham.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli ran across the stable yards and out of the back gate, past a couple of sentries whose stern gaze quite failed to notice her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Out in the streets it wasn't so creepy, but she still felt oddly naked. It was unnerving, being among people who were going about their own affairs and not bothering to look at one, when one's entire experience of the world hitherto was that it revolved around one. Pedestrians bumped into one and rebounded away, wondering briefly what it was they had hit, and one several times had to scurry away out of the path of wagons.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The chicken leg hadn't gone far to fill the hole left by the absence of lunch, and she filched a couple of apples from a stall, making a mental note to have the chamberlain find out how much apples cost and send some money down to the stallholder.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Dishevelled, rather grubby and smelling slightly of horse dung, she came at last to Cutwell's door. The knocker gave her some trouble. In her experience doors opened for you; there were special people to arrange it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She was so distraught she didn't even notice that the knocker winked at her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She tried again, and thought she heard a distant crash. After some time the door opened a few inches and she caught a glimpse of a round flustered face topped with curly hair. Her right foot surprised her by intelligently inserting itself in the crack.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I demand to see the wizard,' she announced. 'Pray admit me this instant.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's rather busy at present,' said the face. 'Were you after a love potion?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've — we've got a special on Cutwell's Shield of Passion ointment,' said the face, and winked in a startling fashion. 'Provides your wild oats while guaranteeing a crop failure, if you know what I mean.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli bridled. 'No,' she lied coldly, 'I do not.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ramrub? Maidens' Longstop? Belladonna eyedrops?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I demand —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry, we're closed,' said the face, and shut the door. Keli withdrew her foot just in time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She muttered some words that would have amazed and shocked her tutors, and thumped on the woodwork.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The tattoo of her hammering suddenly slowed as realization dawned.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He'd seen her! He'd heard her!</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She beat on the door with renewed vigour, yelling with all the power in her lungs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A voice by her ear said, 'It won't work. He 'eef very ftubborn.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She looked around slowly and met the impertinent gaze of the doorknocker. It waggled its metal eyebrows at her and spoke indistinctly through its wrought-iron ring.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am Princess Keli, heir to the throne of Sto Lat,' she said haughtily, holding down the lid on her terror. 'And I don't talk to door furniture.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fwell, <em class="calibre9">I'm</em> just a doorknocker and I can talk to fwhoever I please,' said the gargoyle pleasantly. 'And I can tell you the fmaster iff having a trying day and duff fnot fwant to be disturbed. But you could ftry to use the magic word,' it added. 'Coming from an attractiff fwoman it works nine times out of eight.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Magic word? What's the magic word?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The knocker perceptibly sneered. 'Haff you been taught nothing, miss?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She drew herself up to her full height, which wasn't really worth the effort. She felt she'd had a trying day too. Her father had personally executed a hundred enemies in battle. She should be able to manage a doorknocker.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I have been <em class="calibre9">educated</em>,' she informed it with icy precision, 'by some of the finest scholars in the land.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The doorknocker did not appear to be impressed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Iff they didn't teach you the magic word,' it said calmly, 'they couldn't haff fbeen all that fine.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli reached out, grabbed the heavy ring, and pounded it on the door. The knocker leered at her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ftreat me rough,' it lisped. 'That'f the way I like it!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're disgusting!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeff. Ooo, that waff nife, do it again. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The door opened a crack. There was a shadowy glimpse of curly hair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Madam, I said we're cl —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli sagged.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'Please</span>
        </em>
        <span> help me,' she said. 'Please!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'See?' said the doorknocker triumphantly. 'Sooner or later <em class="calibre9">everyone</em> remembers the magic word!'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli had been to official functions in Ankh-Morpork and had met senior wizards from Unseen University, the Disc's premier college of magic. Some of them had been tall, and most of them had been fat, and nearly all of them had been richly dressed, or at least thought they were richly dressed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact there are fashions in wizardry as in more mundane arts, and this tendency to look like elderly aldermen was only temporary. Previous generations had gone in for looking pale and interesting, or druidical and grubby, or mysterious and saturnine. But Keli was used to wizards as a sort of fur-trimmed small mountain with a wheezy voice, and Igneous Cutwell didn't quite fit the mage image.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He was young. Well, that couldn't be helped; presumably even wizards had to start off young. He didn't have a beard, and the only thing his rather grubby robe was trimmed with was frayed edges.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Would you like a drink or something?' he said, surreptitiously kicking a discarded vest under the table.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli looked around for somewhere to sit that wasn't occupied with laundry or used crockery, and shook her head. Cutwell noticed her expression.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a bit alfresco, I'm afraid,' he added hurriedly, elbowing the remains of a garlic sausage on to the floor. 'Mrs Nugent usually comes in twice a week and does for me but she's gone to see her sister who's had one of her turns. Are you sure? It's no trouble. I saw a spare cup here only yesterday.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I have a problem, Mr Cutwell,' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hang on a moment.' He reached up to a hook over the fireplace and took down a pointy hat that had seen better days, although from the look of it they hadn't been very much better, and then said, 'Right. Fire away.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's so important about the hat?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, it's very 'essential. You've got to have the proper hat for wizarding. We wizards know about this sort of thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If you say so. Look, can you see me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He peered at her. 'Yes. Yes, I would definitely say I can see you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And hear me? You can hear me, can you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Loud and clear. Yes. Every syllable tinkling into place. No problems.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Then would you be surprised if I told you that no one else in this city can?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Except me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli snorted. 'And your doorknocker.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell pulled out a chair and sat down. He squirmed a little. A thoughtful expression passed over his face. He stood up, reached behind him and produced a flat reddish mass which might have once been half a pizza<span><a href="#note_2" title="The first pizza was created on the Disc by the Klatchian mystic Ronron 'Revelation Joe' Shuwadhi, who claimed to have been given the recipe in a dream by the Creator of the Discworld Himself, Who had apparently added that it was what He had intended all along. Those desert travellers who had seen the original, which is reputedly miraculously preserved in the Forbidden City of Ee, say that what the Creator had in mind then was a fairly small cheese and pepperoni affair with a few black olives* and things like mountains and seas got added out of last-minute enthusiasm, as so often happens."><sup class="calibre10">[2]</sup></a></span>. He stared at it sorrowfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've been looking for that all morning, would you believe?' he said. 'It was an Ail-On with extra peppers, too.' He picked sadly at the squashed shape, and suddenly remembered Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Gosh, sorry,' he said, 'where's my manners? Whatever will you think of me? Here. Have an anchovy. Please.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have you been listening to me?' snapped Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Do you feel invisible? In yourself, I mean?' said Gutwell, indistinctly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Of course not. I just feel angry. So I want you to tell my fortune.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, I don't know about that, it all sounds rather <em class="calibre9">medical</em> to me and —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can pay.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's illegal, you see,' said Cutwell wretchedly. 'The old king expressly forbade fortune telling in Sto Lat. He didn't like wizards much.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can pay a <em class="calibre9">lot</em>.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mrs Nugent was telling me this new girl for the throne is likely to be worse. A right haughty one, she said. Not the sort to look kindly on practitioners of the subtle arts, I fear.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli smiled. Members of the court who had seen that smile before would have hastened to drag Gutwell out of the way and into a place of safety, like the next continent, but he just sat there trying to pick bits of mushroom out of his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I understand she's got a foul temper on her,' said Keli. 'I wouldn't be surprised if she didn't turn you out of the city anyway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh dear,' said Cutwell, 'do you really think so?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look,' said Keli, 'you don't have to tell my future, just my present. Even she couldn't object to that. I'll have a word with her if you like,' she added magnanimously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell brightened. 'Oh, do you know her?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. But sometimes, I think, not very well.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell sighed and burrowed around in the debris on the table, dislodging cascades of elderly plates and the long-mummified remains of several meals. Eventually he unearthed a fat leather wallet, stuck to a cheese slice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well,' he said doubtfully, 'these are Caroc cards. Distilled wisdom of the Ancients and all that. Or there's the Ching Aling of the Hublandish. It's all the rage in the smart set. I don't do tealeaves.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'll try the Ching thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You throw these yarrow stalks in the air, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She did. They looked at the ensuing pattern.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm,' said Cutwell after a while. 'Well, that's one in the fireplace, one in the cocoa mug, one in the street, shame about the window, one on the table, and one, no, <em class="calibre9">two</em> behind the dresser. I expect Mrs Nugent will be able to find the rest.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You didn't say how hard. Shall I do it again?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No-ooo, I don't think so.' Cutwell thumbed through the pages of a yellowed book that had previously been supporting the table leg. 'The pattern seems to make sense. Yes, here we are, Octogram 8,887: Illegality, the Unatoning Goose. Which we cross reference here . . . hold on . . . hold on . . . yes. Got it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Without vertically, wisely the cochineal emperor goes forth at teatime; at evening the mollusc is silent among the almond blossom.</em>'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes?' said Keli, respectfully. 'What does that mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Unless you're a mollusc, probably not a lot,' said Cutwell. 'I think perhaps it lost something in translation.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you sure you know how to do this?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Let's try the cards,' said Cutwell hurriedly, fanning them out. 'Pick a card. Any card.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's Death,'said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. Well. Of course, the Death card doesn't actually mean <em class="calibre9">death</em> in all circumstances,' Cutwell said quickly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean, it doesn't mean death in those circumstances where the subject is getting over-excited and you're too embarrassed to tell the truth, hmm?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look, take another card.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This one's Death as well,' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you put the other one back?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. Shall I take another card?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'May as well.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, there's a coincidence!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Death number three?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right. Is this a special pack for conjuring tricks?' Keli tried to sound composed, but even she could detect the faint tinkle of hysteria in her voice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell frowned at her and carefully put the cards back in the pack, shuffled it, and dealt them out on to the table. There was only one Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh dear,' he said, 'I think this is going to be serious. May I see the palm of your hand, please?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He examined it for a long time. Alter a while he went to the dresser, took a jeweller's eyeglass out of a drawer, wiped the porridge off it with the sleeve of his robe, and spent another few minutes examining her hand in minutest detail. Eventually he sat back, removed the glass, and stared at her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're dead,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli waited. She couldn't think of any suitable reply. 'I'm not', lacked a certain style, while 'Is it serious?' seemed somehow too frivolous.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did I say I thought this was going to be serious?' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think you did,' said Keli carefully, keeping her tone totally level.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was right.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It could be fatal.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How much more fatal,' said Keli, 'than being dead?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I didn't mean for you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Something very fundamental seems to have gone wrong, you see. You're dead in every sense but the, er, actual. I mean, the cards think you're dead. Your lifeline thinks you're dead. Everything and everyone thinks you're dead.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">I</em> don't,' said Keli, but her voice was less than confident.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm afraid your opinion doesn't count.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But people can see and hear me!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The first thing you learn when you enroll at Unseen University, I'm afraid, is that people don't pay much attention to that sort of thing. It's what their minds tell them that's important.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean people don't see me because their minds tell them not to?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' 'Fraid so. It's called predestination, or something.' Cutwell looked at her wretchedly. 'I'm a wizard. We know about these things.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Actually it's not the <em class="calibre9">first</em> thing you learn when you enroll,' he added, 'I mean, you learn where the lavatories are and all that sort of thing before that. But after all that, it's the first thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">You</em> can see me, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. Well. Wizards are specially trained to see things that are there and not to see things that aren't. You get these special exercises —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli drummed her fingers on the table, or tried to. It turned out to be difficult. She stared down in vague horror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell hurried forward and wiped the table with his sleeve.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' he muttered, 'I had treacle sandwiches for supper last night.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What can I <em class="calibre9">do</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nothing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Nothing</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you could certainly become a very successful burglar . . . sorry. That was tasteless of me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">I</em> thought so.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell patted her ineptly on the hand, and Keli was too preoccupied even to notice such flagrant <em class="calibre9">lese majeste</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You see, everything's fixed. History is all worked out, from start to finish. What the facts actually <em class="calibre9">are</em> is beside the point; history just rolls straight over the top of them. You can't change anything because the changes are already part of it. You're dead. It's fated. You'll just have to accept it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gave an apologetic grin. 'You're a lot luckier than most dead people, if you look at it objectively,' he said. 'You're alive to enjoy it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't want to accept it. Why should I accept it? It's not my fault!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't understand. History is moving on. You can't get involved in it any more. There isn't a part in it for you, don't you see? Best to let things take their course.' He patted her hand again. She looked at him. He withdrew his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What am I supposed to do then?' she said. 'Not eat, because the food wasn't destined to be eaten by me? Go and live in a crypt somewhere?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Bit of a poser, isn't it?' agreed Cutwell. 'That's fate for you, I'm afraid. If the world can't sense you, you don't exist. I'm a wizard. We know —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't say it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli stood up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Five generations ago one of her ancestor had halted his band of nomadic cutthroats a few miles from the mound of Sto Lat and had regarded the sleeping city with a peculiarly determined expression that said: This'll do. Just because you're born in the saddle doesn't mean you have to die in the bloody thing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Strangely enough, many of his distinctive features had, by a trick of heredity, been bequeathed to his present descendant<span><a href="#note_3" title="Although not the droopy moustache and round furry hat with the spike on it."><sup class="calibre10">[3]</sup></a></span>, accounting for her rather idiosyncratic attractiveness. They were never more apparent than now. Even Cutwell was impressed. When it came to determination, you could have cracked rocks on her jaw.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In exactly the same tone of voice that her ancestor had used when he addressed his weary, sweaty followers before the attack<span><a href="#note_4" title="The speech has been passed on to later generations in an epic poem commissioned by his son, who wasn't born in a saddle and could eat with a knife and fork. It began:"><sup class="calibre10">[4]</sup></a></span>, she said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. No, I'm not going to accept it. I'm not going to dwindle into some sort of ghost. You're going to help me, wizard.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell's subconscious recognized that tone. It had harmonics in it that made even the woodworm in the floorboards stop what they were doing and stand to attention. It wasn't voicing an opinion, it was saying: things will be thus.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Me, madam?' he quavered, 'I don't see what I can possibly—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He was jerked off his chair and out into the street, his robes billowing around him. Keli marched towards the palace with her shoulders set determinedly, dragging the wizard behind her like a reluctant puppy. It was with such a walk that mothers used to bear down on the local school when their little boy came home with a black eye; it was unstoppable; it was like the March of Time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What is it you intend?' Cutwell stuttered, horribly aware that there was going to be nothing he could do to resist, whatever it was.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's your lucky day, wizard.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Good,' he said weakly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You've just been appointed Royal Recognizer.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. What does that entail, exactly?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're going to remind everyone I'm alive. It's very simple. There's three square meals a day and your laundry done. Step lively, man.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Royal?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're a wizard. I think there's something you ought to know,' said the princess.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE IS? said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>(That was a cinematic trick adapted for print. Death wasn't talking to the princess. He was actually in his study, talking to Mort. But it was quite effective, wasn't it? It's probably called a fast dissolve, or a crosscut/zoom. Or something. An industry where a senior technician is called a Best Boy might call it anything.)</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AND WHAT IS THAT? he added, winding a bit of black silk around the wicked hook in a little vice he'd clamped to his desk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort hesitated. Mostly this was because of fear and embarrassment, but it was also because the sight of a hooded spectre peacefully tying dry flies was enough to make anyone pause.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Besides, Ysabell was sitting on the other side of the room, ostensibly doing some needlework but also watching him through a cloud of sullen disapproval. He could feel her red-rimmed eyes boring into the back of his neck.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death inserted a few crow hackles and whistled a busy little tune through his teeth, not having anything else to whistle through. He looked up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HMM?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They — didn't go as smoothly as I thought,' said Mort, standing nervously on the carpet in front of the desk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU HAD TROUBLE? said Death, snipping off a few scraps of feather.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you see, the witch wouldn't come away, and the monk, well, he started out all over again.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NOTHING TO WORRY ABOUT THERE, LAD —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— Mort —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— YOU SHOULD HAVE WORKED OUT BY NOW THAT EVERYONE GETS WHAT THEY THINK IS COMING TO THEM. IT'S SO MUCH NEATER THAT WAY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know, sir. But that means bad people who think they're going to some sort of paradise actually do get there. And good people who fear they're going to some kind of horrible place really suffer. It doesn't seem like justice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS IT I'VE SAID YOU MUST REMEMBER, WHEN YOU'RE OUT ON THE DUTY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HMM?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stuttered into silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NO JUSTICE. THERE'S JUST YOU.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, I —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU MUST REMEMBER THAT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I EXPECT IT ALL WORKS OUT PROPERLY IN THE END. I HAVE NEVER MET THE CREATOR, BUT I'M TOLD HE'S QUITE KINDLY DISPOSED TO PEOPLE. Death snapped the thread and started to unwind the vice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>PUT SUCH THOUGHTS OUT OF YOUR MIND, he added. AT LEAST THE THIRD ONE SHOULDN'T HAVE GIVEN YOU ANY TROUBLE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This was the moment. Mort had thought about it for a long time. There was no sense in concealing it. He'd upset the whole future course of history. Such things tend to draw themselves to people's attention. Best to get it off his chest. Own up like a man. Take his medicine. Cards on table. Beating about bush, none of. Mercy, throw himself on.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The piercing blue eyes glittered at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked back like a nocturnal rabbit trying to outstare the headlights of a sixteen-wheeled artic whose driver is a twelve-hour caffeine freak outrunning the tachometers of hell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He failed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, sir,'he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>GOOD. WELL DONE. NOW THEN, WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THIS?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Anglers reckon that a good dry fly should cunningly mimic the real thing. There are the right flies for morning. There are different flies for the evening rise. And so on.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But the thing between Death's triumphant digits was a fly from the dawn of time. It was the fly in the primordial soup. It had bred on mammoth turds. It wasn't a fly that bangs on window panes, it was a fly that drills through walls. It was an insect that would crawl out from between the slats of the heaviest swat dripping venom and seeking revenge. Strange wings and dangling bits stuck out all over it. It seemed to have a lot of teeth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's it called?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I SHALL CALL IT — DEATH'S GLORY. Death gave the thing a final admiring glance and stuck it into the hood of his robe. I FEEL INCLINED TO SEE A LITTLE BIT OF LIFE THIS EVENING, he said. YOU CAN TAKE THE DUTY, NOW THAT YOU'VE GOT THE HANG OF IT. AS IT WERE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Sir,' said Mort, mournfully. He saw his life stretching out in front of him like a nasty black tunnel with no light at the end of it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death drummed his finger on the desk, muttered to himself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH YES, he said. ALBERT TELLS ME SOMEONE'S BEEN MEDDLING IN THE LIBRARY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon, sir?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TAKING BOOKS OUT, LEAVING THEM LYING AROUND. BOOKS ABOUT YOUNG WOMEN. HE SEEMS TO THINK IT IS AMUSING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As has already been revealed, the Holy Listeners have such well developed hearing that they can be deafened by a good sunset. Just for a few seconds it seemed to Mort that the skin on the back of his neck was developing similar strange powers, because he could see Ysabell freeze in mid-stitch. He also heard the little intake of breath that he'd heard before, among the shelves. He remembered the lace handkerchief.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He said, 'Yes, sir. It won't happen again, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The skin on the back of his neck started to itch like fury.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SPLENDID. NOW, YOU TWO CAN RUN ALONG. GET ALBERT TO DO YOU A PICNIC LUNCH OR SOMETHING. GET SOME FRESH AIR. I'VE NOTICED THE WAY YOU TWO ALWAYS AVOID EACH OTHER. He gave Mort a conspiratorial nudge — it was like being poked with a stick — and added, ALBERT'S TOLD ME WHAT THAT MEANS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Has he?' said Mort gloomily. He'd been wrong, there <em class="calibre9">was</em> a light at the end of the tunnel, and it was a flamethrower.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death gave him another of his supernova winks.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort didn't return it. Instead he turned and plodded towards the door, at a general speed and gait that made Great A'Tuin look like a spring lamb.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He was halfway along the corridor before he heard the soft rush of footsteps behind him and a hand caught his arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned and gazed at Ysabell through a fog of depression.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why did you let him think it was you in the library?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't know.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It was . . . very . . . kind of you,' she said cautiously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Was it? I can't think what came over me.' He felt in his pocket and produced the handkerchief. This belongs to you, I think.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thank you.' She blew her nose noisily.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was already well down the corridor, his shoulders hunched like vulture's wings. She ran after him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I say,' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wanted to say thank you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It doesn't matter,' he muttered. 'It'd just be best if you don't take books away again. It upsets them, or something.' He gave what he considered to be a mirthless laugh. 'Ha!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ha what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just ha!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He'd reached the end of the corridor. There was the door into the kitchen, where Albert would be leering knowingly, and Mort decided he couldn't face that. He stopped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But I only took the books for a bit of company,' she said behind him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gave in.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We could have a walk in the garden,' he said in despair, and then managed to harden his heart a little and added, 'Without obligation, that is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean you're not going to marry me?' she said. Mort was horrified. 'Marry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Isn't that what father brought you here for?' she said. 'He doesn't need an apprentice, after all.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean all those nudges and winks and little comments about some day my son all this will be yours?' said Mort. 'I tried to ignore them. I don't want to get married to anyone yet,' he added, suppressing a fleeting mental picture of the princess. 'And certainly not to you, no offence meant.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wouldn't marry you if you were the last man on the Disc,' she said sweetly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was hurt by this. It was one thing not to want to marry someone, but quite another to be told they didn't want to marry <em class="calibre9">you</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'At least I don't look like I've been eating doughnuts in a wardrobe for years,' he said, as they stepped out on to Death's black lawn.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'At least I walk as if my legs only had one knee each,' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">My</em> eyes aren't two juugly poached eggs.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell nodded. 'On the other hand, <em class="calibre9">my</em> ears don't look like something growing on a dead tree. What does juugly mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You know, eggs like Albert does them.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'With the white all sticky and runny and full of slimy bits?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A good word,' she conceded thoughtfully. 'But <em class="calibre9">my</em> hair, I put it to you, doesn't look like something you clean a privy with.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Certainly, but neither does mine look like a wet hedgehog.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pray note that my chest does not appear to be a toast rack in a wet paper bag.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort glanced sideways at the top of Ysabell's dress, which contained enough puppy fat for two litters of Rotweilers, and forbore to comment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">My</em> eyebrows don't look like a pair of mating caterpillars,' he hazarded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>True. But <em class="calibre9">my</em> legs, I suggest, could at least stop a pig in a passageway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry —?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They're not bandy,' she explained.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They strolled through the lily beds, temporarily lost for words. Eventually Ysabell confronted Mort and stuck out her hand. He shook it in thankful silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Enough?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just about.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good. Obviously we shouldn't get married, if only for the sake of the children.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They sat down on a stone seat between some neatly clipped box hedges. Death had made a pond in this corner of the garden, fed by an icy spring that appeared to be vomited into the pool by a stone lion. Fat white carp lurked in the depths, or nosed on the surface among the velvety black water lilies.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We should have brought some breadcrumbs,' said Mort gallantly, opting for a totally non-controversial subject.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He never comes out here, you know,' said Ysabell, watching the fish. 'He made it to keep me amused.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It didn't work?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's not real,' she said. 'Nothing's real here. Not really real. He just likes to act like a human being. He's trying really hard at the moment, have you noticed. I think you're having an effect on him. Did you know he tried to learn the banjo once?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I see him as more the organ type.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He couldn't get the hang of it,' said Ysabell, ignoring him. 'He can't create, you see.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You said he created this pool.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a copy of one he saw somewhere. Everything's a copy.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shifted uneasily. Some small insect had crawled up his leg.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's rather sad,' he said, hoping that this was approximately the right tone to adopt.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She scooped a handful of gravel from the path and began to flick it absent-mindedly into the pool.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are my eyebrows that bad?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um,' said Mort, 'afraid so.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Flick, flick. The carp were watching her disdainfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And my legs?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shuffled anxiously through his limited repertoire of small talk, and gave up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Never mind,' he said gallantly. 'At least you can use tweezers.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's very kind,' said Ysabell, ignoring him, 'in a sort of absent-minded way.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's not exactly your real father, is he?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My parents were killed crossing the Great Nef years ago. There was a storm, I think. He found me and brought me here. I don't know why he did it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Perhaps he felt sorry for you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He never feels anything. I don't mean that nastily, you understand. It's just that he's got nothing to feel with, no whatd'youcallits, no glands. He probably <em class="calibre9">thought</em> sorry for me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She turned her pale round face towards Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I won't hear a word against him. He tries to do his best. It's just that he's always got so much to think about.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My father was a bit like that. Is, I mean.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect he's got glands, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I imagine he has,' said Mort, shifting uneasily. 'Its not something I've ever really thought about, glands.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They stared side by side at the trout. The trout stared back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've just upset the entire history of the future,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You see, when he tried to kill her I killed him, but the thing is, according to the history she should have died and the duke would be king, but the <em class="calibre9">worst</em> bit, the worst bit is that although he's absolutely rotten to the core he'd unite the cities and eventually they'll be a federation and the books say there'll be a hundred years of peace and plenty. I mean, you'd think there'd be a reign of terror or something, but apparently history needs this kind of person sometimes and the princess would just be another monarch. I mean, not bad, quite good really, but just not right and now it's not going to happen and history is flapping around loose and it's all my fault.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He subsided, anxiously awaiting her reply.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You were right, you know.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We ought to have brought some breadcrumbs,' she said. 'I suppose they find things to eat in the water. Beetles and so on.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you hear what I said?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What about?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Nothing. Nothing much, really. Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell sighed and stood up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect you'll be wanting to get off,' she said. 'I'm glad we got this marriage business sorted out. It was quite nice talking to you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We could have a sort of hate-hate relationship,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't normally get to talk with the people father works with.' She appeared to be unable to draw herself away, as though she was waiting for Mort to say something else.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you wouldn't,' was all he could think of.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect you've got to go off to work now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'More or less.' Mort hesitated, aware that in some indefinable way the conversation had drifted out of the shallows and was now floating over some deep bits he didn't quite understand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a noise like —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It made Mort recall the old yard at home, with a pang of homesickness. During the harsh Ramtop winters the family kept hardy mountain <em class="calibre9">tharga</em> beasts in the yard, chucking in straw as necessary. After the spring thaw the yard was several feet deep and had quite a solid crust on it. You could walk across it if you were careful. If you weren't, and sank knee deep in the concentrated gyppo, then the sound your boot made as it came out, green and steaming, was as much the sound of the turning year as birdsong and beebuzz.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was that noise. Mort instinctively examined his shoes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell was crying, not in little ladylike sobs, but in great yawning gulps, like bubbles from an underwater volcano, fighting one another to be the first to the surface. They were sobs escaping under pressure, matured in humdrum misery.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort said, 'Er?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Her body was shaking like a waterbed in an earthquake zone. She fumbled urgently in her sleeves for the handkerchief, but it was no more use in the circumstances than a paper hat in a thunderstorm. She tried to say something, which became a stream of consonants punctuated by sobs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort said, 'Um?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I said, how old do you think I am?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fifteen?' he hazarded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sixteen,' she wailed. 'And do you know how long I've been sixteen <em class="calibre9">for</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sorry, I don't under —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, you wouldn't. No one would.' She blew her nose again, and despite her shaking hands nevertheless carefully tucked the rather damp hanky back up her sleeve.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">You're</em> allowed out,' she said. 'You haven't been here long enough to notice. Time stands still here, haven't you noticed? Oh, <em class="calibre9">something</em> passes, but it's not real time. He can't create real time.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When she spoke again it was in the thin, careful and above all <em class="calibre9">brave</em> voice of someone who has pulled themselves together despite overwhelming odds but might let go again at any moment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've been sixteen for thirty-five years.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It was bad enough the first year.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked back at his last few weeks, and nodded in sympathy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is that why you've been reading all those books?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell looked down, and twiddled a sandalled toe in the gravel in an embarrassed fashion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They're very romantic,' she said. 'There's some really lovely stories. There was this girl who drank poison when her young man had died, and there was one who jumped off a cliff because her father insisted she should marry this old man, and another one drowned herself rather than submit to—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort listened in astonishment. To judge by Ysabell's careful choice of reading matter, it was a matter of note for any Disc female to survive adolescence long enough to wear out a pair of stockings.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— and then she thought he was dead, and she killed herself and then he woke up and so he did kill himself, and then there was this girl —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Common sense suggested that at least a few women reached their third decade without killing themselves for love, but common sense didn't seem to get even a walk-on part in these dramas.<span><a href="#note_5" title="The Disc's greatest lovers were undoubtedly Mellius and Gretelina, whose pure, passionate and soul-searing affair would have scorched the pages of History if they had not, because of some unexplained quirk of fate, been born two hundred years apart on different continents. However, the gods took pity on them and turned him into an ironing board* and her into a small brass bollard."><sup class="calibre10">[5]</sup></a></span> Mort was already aware that love made you feel hot and cold and cruel and weak, but he hadn't realized that it could make you stupid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' — swam the river every night, but one night there was this storm, and when he didn't arrive she —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort felt instinctively that some young couples met, say, at a village dance, and hit it off, and went out together for a year or two, had a few rows, made up, got married and didn't kill themselves at all.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He became aware that the litany of star-crossed love had wound down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh,' he said, weakly. 'Doesn't anyone just, you know, just get along any more?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>To love is to suffer,' said Ysabell. 'There's got to be lots of dark passion.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Has there?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Absolutely. And anguish.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell appeared to recall something.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you say something about something flapping around loose?' she said, in the tight voice of someone pulling themselves together.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort considered. 'No,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm afraid I wasn't paying much attention.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It doesn't matter at all.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They strolled back to the house in silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When Mort went back to the study he found that Death had gone, leaving four hourglasses on the desk. The big leather book was lying on a lectern, securely locked shut.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a note tucked under the glasses.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had imagined that Death's handwriting would either be gothic or else tombstone angular, but Death had in fact studied a classic work on graphology before selecting a style and had adopted a hand that indicated a balanced, well-adjusted personality.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>Gone fyshing. Theyre ys ane execution in Pseudopoiis, a naturral in Krull, a faytal fall in the Carrick Mtns, ane ague in Ell-Kinte. Thee rest of thee day's your own.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort thought that history was thrashing around like a steel hawser with the tension off, twanging backwards and forwards across reality in great destructive sweeps.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>History isn't like that. History unravels gently, like an old sweater. It has been patched and darned many times, reknitted to suit different people, shoved in a box under the sink of censorship to be cut up for the dusters of propaganda, yet it always — eventually — manages to spring back into its old familiar shape. History has a habit of changing the people who think they are changing <em class="calibre9">it</em>. History always has a few tricks up its frayed sleeve. It's been around a long time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is what was happening:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The misplaced stroke of Mort's scythe had cut history into two separate realities. In the city of Sto Lat Princess Keli still ruled, with a certain amount of difficulty and with the full time aid of the Royal Recognizer, who was put on the court payroll and charged with the duty of remembering that she existed. In the lands outside, though — beyond the plain, in the Ramtops, around the Circle Sea and all the way to the Rim — the traditional reality still held sway and she was quite definitely dead, the duke was king and the world was proceeding sedately according to plan, whatever that was.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The point is that both realities were true.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sort of historical event horizon was currently about twenty miles away from the city, and wasn't yet very noticeable. That's because the , call it the difference in historical pressures — wasn't yet very great. But it was growing. Out in the damp cabbage fields there was a shimmer in the air and a faint sizzle, like frying grasshoppers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>People don't alter history any more than birds alter the sky, they just make brief patterns in it. Inch by inch, implacable as a glacier and far colder, the real reality was grinding back towards Sto Lat.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was the first person to notice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It had been a long afternoon. The mountaineer had held on to his icy handhold until the last moment and the executee had called Mort a lackey of the monarchist state. Only the old lady of 103, who had gone to her reward surrounded by her sorrowing relatives, had smiled at him and said he was looking a little pale.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Disc sun was close to the horizon by the time Binky cantered wearily through the skies over Sto Lat, and Mort looked down and saw the borderland of reality. It curved away below him, a crescent of faint silver mist. He didn't know what it was, but he had a nasty foreboding that it had something to do with him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He reined in the horse and allowed him to trot gently towards the ground, touching down a few yards behind the wall of iridescent air. It was moving at something less than walking pace, hissing gently as it drifted ghost-like across the stark damp cabbage fields and frozen drainage ditches.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was a cold night, the type of night when frost and fog fight for domination and every sound is muffled. Binky's breath made fountains of cloud in the still air. He whinnied gently, almost apologetically, and pawed at the ground.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort slid out of the saddle and crept up to the interface. It crackled softly. Weird shapes coruscated across it, flowing and shifting and disappearing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After some searching he found a stick and poked it cautiously into the wall. It made strange ripples that wobbled slowly out of sight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked up as a shape drifted overhead. It was a black owl, patrollng the ditches for anything small and squeaky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It hit the wall with a splash of sparkling mist, leaving an owl-shaped ripple that grew and spread until it joined the boiling kaleidoscope.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then it vanished. Mort could see through the transparent interface, and certainly no owl reappeared on the other side. Just as he was puzzling over this there was another soundless splash a few feet away and the bird burst into view again, totally unconcerned, and skimmed away across the fields.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort pulled himself together, and stepped through the barrier which was no barrier at all. It tingled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A moment later Binky burst through after him, eyes rolling in desperation and tendrils of interface catching on his hooves. He reared up, shaking his mane like a dog to remove clinging fibres of mist, and looked at Mort beseechingly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort caught his bridle, patted him on the nose, and fumbled in his pocket for a rather grubby sugar lump. He was aware that he was in the presence of something important, but he wasn't yet quite sure what it was.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There <em class="calibre9">was</em> a road running between an avenue of damp and gloomy willow trees. Mort remounted and steered Binky across the field into the dripping darkness under the branches.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the distance he could see the lights of Sto Helit, which really wasn't much more than a small town, and a faint glow on the edge of sight must be Sto Lat. He looked at it longingly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The barrier worried him. He could see it creeping across the field behind the trees.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was on the point of urging Binky back into the air when he saw the light immediately ahead of him, warm and beckoning. It was spilling from the windows of a large building set back from the road. It was probably a cheerful sort of light in any case, but in these surroundings and compared with Mort's mood it was positively ecstatic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As he rode nearer he saw shadows moving against it, and made out a few snatches of song. It was an inn, and inside there were people having a good time, or what passed for a good time if you were a peasant who spent most of your time closely concerned with cabbages. Compared to brassicas, practically anything is fun.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were human beings in there, doing uncomplicated human things like getting drunk and forgetting the words of songs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had never really felt homesick, possibly because his mind had been too occupied with other things. But he felt it now for the first time — a sort of longing, not for a place, but for a state of mind, for being just an ordinary human being with straightforward things to worry about, like money and sickness and other people. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall have a drink,' he thought, 'and perhaps I shall feel better.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was an open-fronted stable at one side of the main building, and he led Binky into the warm, horse-smelling darkness that already accommodated three other horses. As Mort unfastened the nosebag he wondered if Death's horse felt the same way about other horses which had rather less supernatural lifestyles. He certainly looked impressive compared to the others, which regarded him watchfully. Binky was a real horse — the blisters of the shovel handle on Mort's hands were a testimony to that — and compared to the others he looked more real than ever. More solid. More horsey. Slightly larger than life.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact, Mort was on the verge of making an important deduction, and it is unfortunate that he was distracted, as he walked across the yard to the inn's low door, by the sight of the inn sign. Its artist hadn't been particularly gifted, but there was no mistaking the line of Keli's jaw or her mass of fiery hair in the portrait of The Quene's Hed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He sighed, and pushed open the door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As one man, the assembled company stopped talking and stared at him with the honest rural stare that suggests that for two pins they'll hit you around the head with a shovel and bury your body under a compost heap at full moon.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It might be worth taking another look at Mort, because he's changed a lot in the last few chapters. For example, while he still has plenty of knees and elbows about his person, they seem to have migrated to their normal places and he no longer moves as though his joints were loosely fastened together with elastic bands. He used to look as if he knew nothing at all; now he looks as though he knows too much. Something about his eyes suggests that he has seen things that ordinary people never see, or at least never see more than once.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Something about all the rest of him suggests to the watchers that causing an inconvenience for this boy might just be as wise as kicking a wasp nest. In short, Mort no longer looks like something the cat brought in and then brought up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord relaxed his grip on the stout blackthorn peacemaker he kept under the bar and composed his features into something resembling a cheerful welcoming grin, although not very much.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Evening, your lordship,' he said. 'What's your pleasure this cold and frosty night?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' said Mort, blinking in the light.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What he means is, what d'you want to drink?' said a small ferret-faced man sitting by the fire, who was giving Mort the kind of look a butcher gives a field full of lambs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. I don't know,' said Mort. 'Do you sell star drip?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Never heard of it, lordship.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked around at the faces watching him, illuminated by the firelight. They were the sort of people generally called the salt of the earth. In other words, they were hard, square and bad for your health, but Mort was too preoccupied to notice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What do people like to drink here, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord looked sideways at his customers, a clever trick given that they were directly in front of him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why, lordship, we drink scumble, for preference.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Scumble?' said Mort, failing to notice the muffled sniggers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Aye, lordship. Made from apples. Well, mainly apples.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This seemed healthy enough to Mort. 'Oh, right,' he said. 'A pint of scumble, then.' He reached into his pocket and withdrew the bag of gold that Death had given him. It was still quite full. In the sudden hush of the inn the faint clink of the coins sounded like the legendary Brass Gongs of Leshp, which can be heard far out to sea on stormy nights as the currents stir them in their drowned towers three hundred fathoms below.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And please serve these gentlemen with whatever they want,' he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He was so overwhelmed by the chorus of thanks that he didn't take much notice of the fact that his new friends were served their drink in tiny, thimble-sized glasses, while his alone turned up in a large wooden mug.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A lot of stories are told about scumble, and how it is made out on the damp marshes according to ancient recipes handed down rather unsteadily from father to son. It's not true about the rats, or the snake heads, or the lead shot. The one about the dead sheep is a complete fabrication. We can lay to rest all the variations of the one about the trouser button. But the one about not letting it come into contact with metal is absolutely true, because when the landlord flagrantly shortchanged Mort and plonked the small heap of copper in a puddle of the stuff it immediately began to froth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sniffed his drink, and then took a sip. It tasted something like apples, something like autumn mornings, and quite a lot like the bottom of a logpile. Not wishing to appear disrespectful, however, he took a swig.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The crowd watched him, counting under its breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort felt something was being demanded of him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nice,' he said, 'very refreshing.' He took another sip. 'Bit of an acquired taste,' he added, 'but well worth the effort, I'm sure.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were one or two mutters of discontent from the back of the crowd.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's been watering the scumble, that's what 'tis.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nay, thou knowst what happens if you lets a drop of water touch scumble.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord tried to ignore this. 'You like it?' he said to Mort, in pretty much the same tone of voice people used when they said to St George, 'You killed a <em class="calibre9">what</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's quite tangy,' said Mort. 'And sort of nutty.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me,' said the landlord, and gently took the mug out of Mort's hand. He sniffed at it, then wiped his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Uuunnyag,' he said. 'It's the right stuff all right.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked at the boy with something verging on admiration. It wasn't that he'd drunk a third of a pint of scumble in itself, it was that he was still vertical and apparently alive. He handed the pot back again: it was as if Mort was being given a trophy after some incredible contest. When the boy took another mouthful several of the watchers winced. The landlord wondered what Mort's teeth were made of, and decided it must be the same stuff as his stomach.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're not a wizard by any chance?' he enquired, just in case.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry, no. Should I be?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Didn't think so, thought the landlord, he doesn't walk like a wizard and anyway he isn't smoking anything. He looked at the scumble pot again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was something wrong about this. There was something wrong about the boy. He didn't look right. He looked —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— more solid than he should do.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That was ridiculous, of course. The bar was solid, the floor was solid, the customers were as solid as you could wish for. Yet Mort, standing there looking rather embarrassed and casually sipping a liquid you could clean spoons with, seemed to emit a particularly potent sort of solidness, an extra dimension of realness. His hair was more hairy, his clothes more clothy, his boots the epitome of bootness. It made your head ache just to look at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>However, Mort then demonstrated that he was human after all. The mug dropped from his stricken fingers and clattered on the flagstones, where the dregs of scumble started to eat its way through them. He pointed at the far wall, his mouth opening and shutting wordlessly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The regulars turned back to their conversations and games of shovel-up, reassured that things were as they should be; Mort was acting perfectly normally now. The landlord, relieved that the brew had been vindicated, reached across the bar top and patted him companionably on the shoulder.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's all right,' he said. 'It often takes people like this, you'll just have a headache for a few weeks, don't worry about it, a drop of scumble'll see you all right again.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It is a fact that the best remedy for a scumble hangover is a hair of the dog, although it should more accurately be called a tooth of the shark or possibly a tread of the bulldozer.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But Mort merely went on pointing and said, in a trembling voice, 'Can't you see it? It's coming through the wall! It's coming right through the wall!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A lot of things come through the wall after your first drink of scumble. Green hairy things, usually.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's the mist! Can't you hear it sizzling?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A sizzling mist, is it?' The landlord looked at the wall, which was quite empty and unmysterious except for a few cobwebs. The urgency in Mort's voice unsettled him. He would have preferred the normal scaly monsters. A man knew where he stood with them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's coming right across the room! Can't you feel it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The customers looked at one another. Mort was making them uneasy. One or two of them admitted later that they did feel something, rather like an icy tingle, but it could have been indigestion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort backed away, and then gripped the bar. He shivered for a moment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look,' said the landlord, 'a joke's a joke, but —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You had a green shirt on before!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord looked down. There was an edge of terror in his voice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Before what?' he quavered. To his astonishment, and before his hand could complete its surreptitious journey towards the blackthorn stick, Mort lunged across the bar and grabbed him by the apron.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You've got a green shirt, haven't you?' he said. 'I saw it, it had little yellow buttons!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, yes. I've got two shirts.' The landlord tried to draw himself up a little. 'I'm a man of means,' he added. 'I just didn't wear it today.' He didn't want to know how Mort knew about the buttons.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort let him go and spun round.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They're all sitting in different places! Where's the man who was sitting by the fire? It's all changed!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He ran out through the door and there was a muffled cry from outside. He dashed back, wild-eyed, and confronted the horrified crowd.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who changed the sign? Someone changed the sign!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord nervously ran his tongue across his lips.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'After the old king died, you mean?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's look chilled him, the boy's eyes were two black pools of terror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's the name I mean!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We've — it's always been the same name,' said the man, looking desperately at his customers for support. 'Isn't that so, lads? The Duke's Head.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a murmured chorus of agreement.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared at everyone, visibly shaking. Then he turned and ran outside again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The listeners heard hoof beats in the yard, which grew fainter and then disappeared entirely, just as though a horse had left the face of the earth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was no sound inside the inn. Men tried to avoid one another's gaze. No one wanted to be the first to admit to seeing what he thought he had just seen.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So it was left to the landlord to walk unsteadily across the room and reach out and run his fingers across the familiar, reassuring wooden surface of the door. It was solid, unbroken, everything a door should be.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Everyone had seen Mort run through it three times. He just hadn't opened it.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky fought for height, rising nearly vertically with his hooves thrashing the air and his breath curling away behind him like a vapour trail. Mort hung on with knees and hands and mostly with willpower, his face buried in the horse's mane. He didn't look down until the air around him was freezing and thin as workhouse gravy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Overhead the Hub Lights flickered silently across the winter sky. Below —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— an upturned saucer, miles across, silvery in the starlight. He could see lights through it. Clouds were drifting through it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>No. He watched carefully. Clouds were certainly drifting into it, and there were clouds <em class="calibre9">in</em> it, but the clouds inside were wispier and moving in a slightly different direction and, in fact, didn't seem to have much to do with the clouds outside. There was something else . . . oh yes, the Hub Lights. They gave the night outside the ghostly hemisphere a faint green tint, but there was no sign of it under the dome.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was like looking into a piece of another world, almost identical, that had been grafted on to the Disc. The weather was slightly different in there, and the Lights weren't on display tonight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And the Disc was resenting it, and surrounding it, and pushing it back into non-existence. Mort couldn't see it growing smaller from up here, but in his mind's ear he could hear the locust sizzle of the thing as it ground across the land, changing things back to where they should be. Reality was healing itself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort knew, without even having to think about it, who was at the centre of the dome. It was obvious even from here that it was centred firmly on Sto Lat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He tried not to think what would happen when the dome had shrunk to the size of the room, and then the size of a person, and then the size of an egg. He failed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Logic would have told Mort that here was his salvation. In a day or two the problem would solve itself; the books in the library would be right again; the world would have sprung back into shape like an elastic bandage. Logic would have told him that interfering with the process a second time around would only make things worse. Logic would have said all that, if only Logic hadn't taken the night off too.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Light travels quite slowly on the Disc, due to the braking effect of the huge magical field, and currently that part of the Rim carrying the island of Krull was directly under the little sun's orbit and it was, therefore, still early evening. It was also quite warm, since the Rim picks up more heat and enjoys a gentle maritime climate.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact Krull, with a large part of what for want of a better word must be called its coastline sticking out over the Edge, was a fortunate island. The only native Krullians who did not appreciate this were those who didn't look where they were going or who walked in their sleep and, because of natural selection, there weren't very many of them any more. All societies have their share of dropouts, but on Krull they never had a chance to drop back in again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Terpsic Mims was not a dropout. He was an angler. There is a difference; angling is more expensive. But Terpsic was happy. He was watching a feather on a cork bob gently on the gentle, reed-lined waters of the Hakrull river and his mind was very nearly a blank. The only thing that could have disturbed his mood was actually catching a fish, because catching fish was the one thing about angling that he really dreaded. They were cold and slimy and panicky and got on his nerves, and Terpsic's nerves weren't very good.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So long as he caught nothing Terpsic Mims was one of the Disc's happiest anglers, because the Hakrull river was five miles from his home and therefore five miles from Mrs Gwladys Mims, with whom he had enjoyed six happy months of married life. That had been some twenty years previously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Terpsic did not pay undue heed when another angler took up station further along the bank. Of course, some fishermen might have objected to this breach of etiquette, but in Terpsic's book anything that reduced his chance of actually catching any of the damned things was all right by him. Out of the corner of his eye he noted that the newcomer was fly-fishing, an interesting pastime which Terpsic had rejected because one spent altogether far too much time at home making the equipment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He had never seen fly-fishing like this before. There were wet flies, and there were dry flies, but this fly augured into the water with a saw-toothed whine and dragged the fish out backwards.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Terpsic watched in horrified fascination as the indistinct figure behind the willow trees cast and cast again. The water boiled as the river's entire piscine population fought to get out of the way of the buzzing terror and, unfortunately, a large and maddened pike took Terpsic's hook out of sheer confusion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>One moment he was standing on the bank, and the next he was in a green, clanging gloom, bubbling his breath away and watching his life flash before his eyes and, even in the moment of drowning, dreading the thought of watching the bit between the day of his wedding and the present. It occurred to him that Gwladys would soon be a widow, which cheered him up a little bit. In fact Terpsic had always tried to look on the bright side, and it struck him, as he sank gratefully into the silt, that from this point on his whole life could only improve. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And a hand grabbed his hair and dragged him to the surface, which was suddenly full of pain. Ghastly blue and black blotches swam in front of his eyes. His lungs were on fire. His throat was a pipe of agony.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Hands — cold hands, freezing hands, hands that felt like a glove full of dice — towed him through the water and threw him down on to the bank where, after some game attempts to get on with drowning, he was eventually bullied back into what passed for his life.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Terpsic didn't often get angry, because Gwladys didn't hold with it. But he felt cheated. He'd been born without being consulted, he'd been married because Gwladys and her father had seen to it, and the only major human achievement that was uniquely his had been rudely snatched away from him. A few seconds ago it had all been so simple. Now it was all complicated again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Not that he wanted to die, of course. The gods were very firm on the subject of suicide. He just hadn't wanted to be rescued.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Through red eyes in a mask of slime and duckweed he peered at the blurred form above him, and shouted, 'Why did you have to save me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The answer worried him. He thought about it as he squelched all the way home. It sat at the back of his mind while Gwladys complained about the state of his clothes. It squirrelled around in his head as he sat and sneezed guiltily by the fire, because being ill was another thing Gwladys didn't hold with. As he lay shivering in bed it settled in his dreams like an iceberg. In the midst of his fever he muttered, 'What did he mean, "FOR LATER"?'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Torches flared in the city of Sto Lat. Whole squads of men were charged with the task of constantly renewing them. The streets glowed. The sizzling flames pushed back shadows that had been blamelessly minding their own business every night for centuries. They illuminated ancient corners where the eyes of bewildered rats glittered in the depths of their holes. They forced burglars to stay indoors. They glowed on the night mists, forming a nimbus of yellow light that blotted out the cold high flames streaming from the Hub. But mainly they shone on the face of Princess Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was everywhere. It plastered every flat surface. Binky cantered along the glowing streets between Princess Keli on doors, walls and gable ends. Mort gaped at posters of his beloved on every surface where workmen had been able to make paste stick.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Even stranger, no one seemed to be paying them much attention. While Sto Lat's night life was not as colourful and full of incident as that of Ankh-Morpork, in the same way that a wastepaper basket cannot compete with a municipal tip, the streets were nevertheless a-bustle with people and shrill with the cries of hucksters, gamblers, sellers of sweetmeats, pea-and-thimble men, ladies of assignation, pickpockets and the occasional honest trader who had wandered in by mistake and couldn't now raise enough money to leave. As Mort rode through them snatches of conversation in half-a-dozen languages floated into his ears; with numb acceptance he realized he could understand every one of them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He eventually dismounted and led the horse along Wall Street, searching in vain for Cutwell's house. He found it only because a lump on the nearest poster was making muffled swearing noises.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He reached out gingerly and pulled aside a strip of paper.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thanks very much,' said the gargoyle doorknocker. 'You wouldn't credit it, would you? One minute life as normal, nexft minute a mouthful of glue.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where's Cutwell?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's gone off to the palace.' The knocker leered at him and winked a cast-iron eye. 'Some men came and took all his fstuff away. Then some ovver men started pasting pictures of his girlfriend all over the place. Barftuds,' it added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort coloured.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'His girlfriend?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The doorknocker, being of the demonic persuasion, sniggered at his tone. It sounded like fingernails being dragged over a file.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeff,' it said. They feemed in a bit of a hurry, if you ask me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was already up on Binky's back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I fay!' shouted the knocker at his retreating back. 'I fay! Could you unftick me, boy?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort tugged on Binky's reins so hard that the horse reared and danced crazily backwards across the cobbles, then reached out and grabbed the ring of the knocker. The gargoyle looked up into his face and suddenly felt like a very frightened doorknocker indeed. Mort's eyes glowed like crucibles, his expression was a furnace, his voice held enough heat to melt iron. It didn't know what he could do, but felt that it would prefer not to find out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you call me?' Mort hissed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The doorknocker thought quickly. 'Fir?' it said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you ask me to do?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Unftick me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't intend to.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fine,' said the doorknocker, 'fine. That's okay by me. I'll just ftick around, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It watched Mort canter off along the street and shuddered with relief, knocking itself gently in its nervousness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A naaaarrow sqeeeak,' said one of the hinges.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fut up!'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort passed night watchmen, whose job now appeared to consist of ringing bells and shouting the name of the Princess, but a little uncertainly, as if they had difficulty remembering it. He ignored them, because he was listening to voices inside his head which went:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She's only met you once, you fool. Why should she bother about you?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Yes, but I did save her life.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That means it belongs to her. Not to you. Besides, he's a wizard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So what? Wizards aren't supposed to — to go out with girls, they're celebrate. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Celebrate?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They're not supposed to, you know. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>What, never any you know at all? said the internal voice, and it sounded as if it was grinning.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It's supposed to be bad for the magic, thought Mort bitterly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Funny place to keep magic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort was shocked. Who are you? he demanded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I'm you, Mort. Your inner self.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Well, I wish I'd get out of my head, it's quite crowded enough with me in here.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Fair enough, said the voice, I was only trying to help. But remember, if you ever need you, you're always around.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The voice faded away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Well, thought Mort bitterly, that must have been me. I'm the only one that calls me Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The shock of the realization quite obscured the fact that, while Mort had been locked into the monologue, he had ridden right through the gates of the palace. Of course, people rode through the gates of the palace every day, but most of them needed the things to be opened first.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The guards on the other side were rigid with fear, because they thought they had seen a ghost. They would have been far more frightened if they had known that a ghost was almost exactly what they hadn't seen.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The guard outside the doors of the great hall had seen it happen too, but he had time to gather his wits, or such that remained, and raise his spear as Binky trotted across the courtyard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Halt,' he croaked. 'Halt. What goes where?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort saw him for the first time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' he said, still lost in thought.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The guard ran his tongue over his dry lips, and backed away. Mort slid off Binky's back and walked forward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I meant, what goes there?' the guard tried again, with a mixture of doggedness and suicidal stupidity that marked him for early promotion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort caught the spear gently and lifted it out of the way of the door. As he did so the torchlight illuminated his face.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' he said softly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It should have been enough for any normal soldier, but this guard was officer material.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I mean, friend or foe?' he stuttered, trying to avoid Mort's gaze.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which would you prefer?' he grinned. It wasn't quite the grin of his master, but it was a pretty effective grin and didn't have a trace of humour in it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The guard sagged with relief, and stood aside.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pass, friend,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort strode across the hall towards the staircase that led to the royal apartments. The hall had changed a lot since he last saw it. Portraits of Keli were everywhere; they'd even replaced the ancient and crumbling battle banners in the shadowy heights of the roof. Anyone walking through the palace would have found it impossible to go more than a few steps without seeing a portrait. Part of Mort's mind wondered why, just as another part worried about the flickering dome that was steadily closing on the city, but most of his mind was a hot and steamy glow of rage and bewilderment and jealousy. Ysabell had been right, he thought, this must be love.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The walk-through-walls boy!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He jerked his head up. Cutwell was standing at the top of the stairs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wizard had changed a lot too, Mort thought bitterly. Perhaps not that much, though. Although he was wearing a black and white robe embroidered with sequins, although his pointy hat was a yard high and decorated with more mystic symbols than a dental chart, and although his red velvet shoes had silver buckles and toes that curled like snails, there were still a few stains on his collar and he appeared to be chewing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He watched Mort climb the stairs towards him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you angry about something?' he said. 'I started work, but I got rather tied up with other things. Very difficult, walking through — why are you looking at me like that?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you doing here?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I might ask you the same question. Would you like a strawberry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort glanced at the small wooden punnet in the wizard's hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In mid-winter?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Actually, they're sprouts with a dash of enchantment.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They taste like strawberries?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell sighed. 'No, like sprouts. The spell isn't totally efficient. I thought they might cheer the princess up, but she threw them at me. Shame to waste them. Be my guest.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort gaped at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She threw them at you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Very accurately, I'm afraid. Very strong-minded young lady.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Hi, said a voice in the back of Mort's mind, it's you again, pointing out to yourself that the chances of the princess even contemplating you know with this fellow are on the far side of remote.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Go away, thought Mort. His subconscious was worrying him. It appeared to have a direct line to parts of his body that he wanted to ignore at the moment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why <em class="calibre9">are</em> you here?' he said aloud. 'Is it something to do with all these pictures?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good idea, wasn't it?' beamed Cutwell. 'I'm rather proud of it myself.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me,' said Mort weakly. 'I've had a busy day. I think I'd like to sit down somewhere.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's the Throne Room,' said Cutwell. 'There's no one in there at this time of night. Everyone's asleep.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded, and then looked suspiciously at the young wizard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you doing up, then?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um,' said Cutwell, 'um, I just thought I'd see if there was anything in the pantry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He shrugged.<span><a href="#note_6" title="There had been half a jar of elderly mayonnaise, a piece of very old cheese, and a tomato with white mould growing on it. Since during the day the pantry of the palace of Sto Lat normally contained fifteen whole stags, one hundred brace of partridges, fifty hogsheads of butter, two hundred jugs of hares, seventy-five sides of beef, two miles of assorted sausages, various fowls, eighty dozen eggs, several Circle Sea sturgeon, a vat of caviar and an elephant's leg stuffed with olives, Cutwell had learned once again that one universal manifestation of raw, natural magic throughout the universe is this; that any domestic food store, raided furtively in the middle of the night, always contains, no matter what its daytime inventory, half a jar of elderly mayonnaise, a piece of very old cheese, and a tomato with white mould growing on it."><sup class="calibre10">[6]</sup></a></span></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now is the time to report that Cutwell too notices that Mort, even a Mort weary with riding and lack of sleep, is somehow glowing from within and in some strange way unconnected with size is nevertheless larger than life. The difference is that Cutwell is, by training, a better guesser than other people and knows that in occult matters the obvious answer is usually the wrong one.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort can move absentmindedly through walls and drink neat widowmaker soberly not because he is turning into a ghost, but because he is becoming dangerously real.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact, as the boy stumbles while they walk along the silent corridors and steps through a marble pillar without noticing, it's obvious that the world is becoming a pretty insubstantial place from his point of view.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You just walked through a marble pillar,' observed Cutwell. 'How did you do it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did I?' Mort looked around. The pillar looked sound enough. He poked an arm towards it, and slightly bruised his elbow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I could have sworn you did,' said Cutwell. 'Wizards notice these things, you know.' He reached into the pocket of his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Then have you noticed the mist dome around the country?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell squeaked. The jar in his hand dropped and smashed on the tiles; there was the smell of slightly rancid salad dressing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Already</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know about already,' said Mort, 'but there's this sort of crackling wall sliding over the land and no one else seems to worry about it and—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How fast was it moving?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— it changes things!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You saw it? How far away is it? How fast is it moving?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Of course I saw it. I rode through it twice. It was like —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But you're not a wizard, so why —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you doing here, anyway —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell took a deep breath. 'Everyone shut up!' he screamed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was silence. Then the wizard grabbed Mort's arm. 'Come on,' he said, pulling him back along the corridor. 'I don't know who you are exactly and I hope I've got time to find out one day but something really horrible is going to happen soon and I think you're involved, somehow.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Something horrible? When?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That depends on how far away the interface is and how fast it's moving,' said Cutwell, dragging Mort down a side passage. When they were outside a small oak door he let go of his arm and fumbled in his pocket again, removing a small hard piece of cheese and an unpleasantly squashy tomato.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hold these, will you? Thank you.' He delved again, produced a key and unlocked the door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's going to kill the princess, isn't it?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes,' said Cutwell, 'and then again, no.' He paused with his hand on the doorhandle. 'That was pretty perspicacious of you. How did you know?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I —' Mort hesitated.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She told me a very strange story,' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect she did,' said Mort. 'If it was unbelievable, it was true.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're him, are you? Death's assistant?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Off duty at the moment, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pleased to hear it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell shut the door behind them and fumbled for a candlestick. There was a pop, a flash of blue light and a whimper.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' he said, sucking his fingers. 'Fire spell. Never really got the hang of it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You were expecting the dome thing, weren't you?' said Mort urgently. 'What will happen when it closes in?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wizard sat down heavily on the remains of a bacon sandwich.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm not exactly sure,' he said. 'It'll be interesting to watch. But not from inside, I'm afraid. What I <em class="calibre9">think</em> will happen is that the last week will never have existed.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She'll suddenly die?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't quite understand. She will have been dead for a week. All this —' he waved his hands vaguely in the air — 'will not have happened. The assassin will have done his job. You will have done yours. History will have healed itself. Everything will be all right. From History's point of view, that is. There really isn't any other.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared out of the narrow window. He could see across the courtyard into the glowing streets outside, where a picture of the princess smiled at the sky.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Tell me about the pictures,' he said. That looks like some sort of wizard thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm not sure if it's working. You see, people were beginning to get upset and they didn't know why, and that made it worse. Their minds were in one reality and their bodies were in another. Very unpleasant. They couldn't get used to the idea that she was still alive. I thought the pictures might be a good idea but, you know, people just don't see what their mind tells them isn't there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I could have told you that,' said Mort bitterly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I had the town criers out during the daytime,' Cutwell continued. 'I thought that if people could come to believe in her, then this new reality could become the real one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mmmph?' said Mort. He turned away from the window. 'What do you mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you see — I reckoned that if enough people believed in her, they could change reality. It works for gods. If people stop believing in a god, he dies. If a lot of them believe in him, he grows stronger.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I didn't know that. I thought gods were just gods.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They don't like it talked about,' said Cutwell, shuffling through the heap of books and parchments on his worktable.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, that might work for gods, because they're special,' said Mort. 'People are — more solid. It wouldn't work for people.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's not true. Let's suppose you went out of here and prowled around the palace. One of the guards would probably see you and he'd think you were a thief and he'd fire his crossbow. I mean, in his reality you'd be a thief. It wouldn't actually be true but you'd be just as dead as if it was. Belief is powerful stuff. I'm a wizard. We know about these things. Look here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He pulled a book out of the debris in front of him and opened it at the piece of bacon he'd used as a bookmark. Mort looked over his shoulder, and frowned at the curly magical writing. It moved around on the page, twisting and writhing in an attempt not to be read by a non-wizard, and the general effect was unpleasant.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's this?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's the Book of the Magick of Alberto Malich the Mage,' said the wizard, 'a sort of book of magical theory. It's not a good idea to look too hard at the words, they resent it. Look, it says here —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His lips moved soundlessly. Little beads of sweat sprang up on his forehead and decided to get together and go down and see what his nose was doing. His eyes watered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some people like to settle down with a good book. No one in possession of a complete set of marbles would like to settle down with a book of magic, because even the individual words have a private and vindictive life of their own and reading them, in short, is a kind of mental Indian wrestling. Many a young wizard has tried to read a grimoire that is too strong for him, and people who've heard the screams have found only his pointy shoes with the classic wisp of smoke coming out of them and a book which is, perhaps, just a little fatter. Things can happen to browsers in magical libraries that make having your face pulled off by tentacled monstrosities from the Dungeon Dimensions seem a mere light massage by comparison.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Fortunately Cutwell had an expurgated edition, with some of the more distressing pages clamped shut (although on quiet nights he could hear the imprisoned words scritching irritably inside their prison, like a spider trapped in a matchbox; anyone who has ever sat next to someone wearing a Walkman will be able to imagine exactly what they sounded like).</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This is the bit,' said Cutwell. 'It says here that even gods —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've seen him before!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort pointed a shaking finger at the book.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Him!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell gave him an odd look and examined the left-hand page. There was a picture of an elderly wizard holding a book and a candlestick in an attitude of near-terminal dignity.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's not part of the magic,' he said testily, 'that's just the author.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What does it say under the picture?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Er, It says "Yff youe have enjoyed thiss Boke, youe maye be interestede yn othere Titles by —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, right under the picture is what I meant!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's easy. It's old Malich himself. Every wizard knows him. I mean, he founded the University.' Cutwell chuckled. There's a famous statue of him in the main hall, and during Rag Week once I climbed up it and put a —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared at the picture.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Tell me,' he said quietly, 'did the statue have a drip on the end of its nose?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shouldn't think so,' said Cutwell. 'It was marble. But I don't know what you're getting so worked up about. Lots of people know what he looked like. He's famous.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He lived a long time ago, did he?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Two thousand years, I think. Look, I don't know why —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I bet he didn't die, though,' said Mort. 'I bet he just disappeared one day. Did he?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell was silent for a moment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Funny you should say that,' he said slowly. There was a legend I heard. He got up to some weird things, they say. They say he blew himself into the Dungeon Dimensions while trying to perform the Rite of AshkEnte backwards. All they found was his hat. Tragic, really. The whole city in mourning for a day just for a hat. It wasn't even a particularly attractive hat; it had burn marks on it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Alberto Malich,' said Mort, half to himself. 'Well. Fancy that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He drummed his fingers on the table, although the sound was surprisingly muted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' said Cutwell. 'I can't get the hang of treacle sandwiches, either.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I reckon the interface is moving at a slow walking pace,' said Mort, licking his fingers absent-mindedly. 'Can't you stop it by magic?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell shook his head. 'Not me. It'd squash me flat,' he said cheerfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What'll happen to you when it arrives, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, I'll go back to living in Wall Street. I mean, I never will have left. All this won't have happened. Pity, though. The cooking here is pretty good, and they do my laundry for free. How far away did you say it was, by the way?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'About twenty miles, I guess.'.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell rolled his eyes heavenwards and moved his lips. Eventually he said: 'That means it'll arrive around midnight tomorrow, just in time for the coronation.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Whose?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hers.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But she's queen already, isn't she?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In a way, but officially she's not queen until she's crowned.' Cutwell grinned, his face a pattern of shade in the candlelight, and added, 'If you want a way of thinking about it, then it's like the difference between stopping living and being dead.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Twenty minutes earlier Mort had been feeling tired enough to take root. Now he could feel a fizzing in his blood. It was the kind of late-night, frantic energy that you knew you would pay for around midday tomorrow, but for now he felt he had to have some action or else his muscles would snap out of sheer vitality.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I want to see her,' he said. 'If you can't do anything, there might be something I can do.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There's guards outside her room,' said Cutwell. 'I mention this merely as an observation. I don't imagine for one minute that they'll make the slightest difference.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was midnight in Ankh-Morpork, but in the great twin city the only difference between night and day was, well, it was darker. The markets were thronged, the spectators were still thickly clustered around the whore pits, runners-up in the city's eternal and byzantine gang warfare drifted silently down through the chilly waters of the river with lead weights tied to their feet, dealers in various illegal and even illogical delights plied their sidelong trade, burglars burgled, knives flashed starlight in alleyways, astrologers started their day's work and in the Shades a nightwatch-man who had lost his way rang his bell and cried out: 'Twelve o'clock and all's arrrrrgghhhh, . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>However, the Ankh-Morpork Chamber of Commerce would not be happy at the suggestion that the only real difference between their city and a swamp is the number of legs on the alligators, and indeed in the more select areas of Ankh, which tend to be in the hilly districts where there is a chance of a bit of wind, the nights are gentle and scented with habiscine and Cecillia blossoms.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>On this particular night they were scented with saltpetre, too, because it was the tenth anniversary of the accession of the Patrician<span><a href="#note_7" title="Ankh-Morpork had dallied with many forms of government and had ended up with that form of democracy known as One Man, One Vote. The Patrician was the Man; he had the Vote."><sup class="calibre10">[7]</sup></a></span> and he had invited a few friends round for a drink, five hundred of them in this case, and was letting off fireworks. Laughter and the occasional gurgle of passion filled the palace gardens, and the evening had just got to that interesting stage where everyone had drunk too much for their own good but not enough actually to fall over. It is the kind of state in which one does things that one will recall with crimson shame in later life, such as blowing through a paper squeaker and laughing so much that one is sick.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact some two hundred of the Patrician's guests were now staggering and kicking their way through the Serpent Dance, a quaint Morporkian folkway which consisted of getting rather drunk, holding the waist of the person in front, and then wobbling and giggling uproariously in a long crocodile that wound through as many rooms as possible, preferably ones with breakables in, while kicking one leg vaguely in time with the beat, or at least in time with some other beat. This dance had gone on for half an hour and had wound through every room in the palace, picking up two trolls, the cook, the Patrician's head torturer, three waiters, a burglar who happened to be passing and a small pet swamp dragon.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Somewhere around the middle of the dance was fat Lord Rodley of Quirm, heir to the fabulous Quirm estates, whose current preoccupation was with the thin fingers gripping his waist. Under its bath of alcohol his brain kept trying to attract his attention.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I say,' he called over his shoulder, as they oscillated for the tenth hilarious time through the enormous kitchen, 'not so tight, please.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I AM MOST TERRIBLY SORRY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No offence, old chap. Do I know you?' said Lord Rodley, kicking vigorously on the back beat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I THINK IT UNLIKELY. TELL ME, PLEASE, WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THIS ACTIVITY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?' shouted Lord Rodley, above the sound of someone kicking in the door of a glass cabinet amid shrieks of merriment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS THIS THING THAT WE DO? said the voice, with glacial patience.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Haven't you been to a party before? Mind the glass, by the way.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I AM AFRAID I DO NOT GET OUT AS MUCH AS I WOULD LIKE TO. PLEASE EXPLAIN THIS. DOES IT HAVE TO DO WITH SEX?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not unless we pull up sharp, old boy, if you know what I mean?' said his lordship, and nudged his unseen fellow guest with his elbow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ouch,' he said. A crash up ahead marked the demise of the cold buffet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I DO NOT KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mind the cream there, it's slippery — look, it's just a dance, all right? You do it for fun.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FUN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's right. Dada, dada, da — kick!' There was an audible pause.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHO IS THIS FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, fun isn't anybody, fun is what you have.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WE ARE HAVING FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I thought I was,' said his lordship uncertainly. The voice by his ear was vaguely worrying him; it appeared to be arriving directly into his brain.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS THIS FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This is!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TO KICK VIGOROUSLY IS FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, part of the fun. Kick!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TO HEAR LOUD MUSIC IN HOT ROOMS IS FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Possibly.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HOW IS THIS FUN MANIFEST?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, it — look, either you're having fun or you're not, you don't have to ask me, you just know, all right? How did you get in here, anyway?' he added. 'Are you a friend of the Patrician?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LET US SAY, HE PUTS BUSINESS MY WAY. I FELT I OUGHT TO LEARN SOMETHING OF HUMAN PLEASURES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sounds like you've got a long way to go.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I KNOW. PLEASE EXCUSE MY LAMENTABLE IGNORANCE. I WISH ONLY TO LEARN. ALL THESE PEOPLE, PLEASE — THEY ARE HAVING FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THEN THIS IS FUN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm glad we've got that sorted out. Mind the chair,' snapped Lord Rodley, who was now feeling very unfunny and unpleasantly sober.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A voice behind him said quietly: THIS IS FUN. TO DRINK EXCESSIVELY IS FUN. WE ARE HAVING FUN. HE IS HAVING FUN. THIS IS SOME FUN. WHAT FUN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Behind Death the Patrician's small pet swamp dragon held on grimly to the bony hips and thought: guards or no guards, next time we pass an open window I'm going to run like buggery.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli sat bolt upright in bed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't move another step,' she said. 'Guards!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We couldn't stop him,' said the first guard, poking his head shame-facedly around the doorpost.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He just pushed in . . .' said the other guard, from the other side of the doorway.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And the wizard said it was all right, and we were told everyone must listen to him because…</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right, all right. People could get murdered around here,' said Keli testily, and put the crossbow back on the bedside table without, unfortunately, operating the safety catch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a click, the thwack of sinew against metal, a zip of air, and a groan. The groan came from Cutwell. Mort spun round to him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you all right?' he said. 'Did it hit you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' said the wizard, weakly. 'No, it didn't. How do you feel?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A bit tired. Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, nothing. Nothing. No draughts anywhere? No slight leaking feelings?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, nothing, nothing.' Cutwell turned and looked closely at the wall behind Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Aren't the dead allowed any peace?' said Keli bitterly. 'I thought one thing you could be sure of when you were dead was a good night's sleep.' She looked as though she had been crying. With an insight that surprised him, Mort realized that she knew this, and that it was making her even angrier than before.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's not really fair,' he said. 'I've come to help. Isn't that right, Cutwell?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm?' said Cutwell, who had found the crossbow bolt buried in the plaster and was looking at it with deep suspicion. 'Oh, yes. He has. It won't work, though. Excuse me, has anyone got any string?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Help?' snapped Keli. 'Help? If it wasn't for you —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You'd still be dead,' said Mort. She looked at him with her mouth open.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wouldn't know about it, though,' she said. That's the worst part.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think you two had better go,' said Cutwell to the guards, who were trying to appear inconspicuous. 'But I'll have that spear, please. Thank you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look,' said Mort, 'I've got a horse outside. You'd be amazed. I can take you anywhere. You don't have to wait around here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't know much about monarchy, do you,' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. No?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' She means better to be a dead queen in your own castle than a live commoner somewhere else,' said Cutwell, who had stuck the spear into the wall by the bolt and was trying to sight along it. 'Wouldn't work, anyway. The dome isn't centred on the palace, it's centred on her.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'On <em class="calibre9">who</em>?' said Keli. Her voice could have kept milk fresh for a month.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'On her Highness,' said Cutwell automatically, squinting along the shaft.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't you forget it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I won't forget it, but that's not the point,' said he wizard. He pulled the bolt out of the plaster and tested the point with his finger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But if you stay here you'll die!' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then I shall have to show the Disc how a queen can die,' said Keli, looking as proud as was possible in a pink knitted bed jacket.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sat down on the end of the bed with his head in his hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I <em class="calibre9">know</em> how a queen can die,' he muttered. They die just like other people. And some of us would rather not see it happen.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me, I just want to look at this crossbow,' said Cutwell conversationally, reaching across them. 'Don't mind me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall go proudly to meet my destiny,' said Keli, but there was the barest flicker of uncertainty in her voice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No you won't. I mean, I know what I'm talking about. Take it from me. There's nothing proud about it. You just die.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but it's how you do it. I shall die nobly, like Queen Ezeriel.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's forehead wrinkled. History was a closed book to him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who's she?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She lived in Klatch and she had a lot of lovers and she sat on a snake,' said Cutwell, who was winding up the crossbow.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She meant to! She was crossed in love!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All I can remember was that she used to take baths in asses' milk. Funny thing, history,' said Cutwell reflectively. 'You become a queen, reign for thirty years, make laws, declare war on people and then the only thing you get remembered for is that you smelled like yoghurt and were bitten in the—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She's a distant ancestor of mine,' snapped Keli. 'I won't listen to this sort of thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Will you both be quiet and listen to me!' shouted Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Silence descended like a shroud.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then Cutwell sighted carefully and shot Mort in the back.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The night shed its early casualties and journeyed onwards. Even the wildest parties had ended, their guests lurching home to their beds, or someone's bed at any rate. Shorn of these fellow travellers, mere daytime people who had strayed out of their temporal turf, the true survivors of the night got down to the serious commerce of the dark.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This wasn't so very different from Ankh-Morpork's daytime business, except that the knives were more obvious and people didn't smile so much.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Shades were silent, save only for the whistled signals of thieves and the velvety hush of dozens of people going about their private business in careful silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And, in Ham Alley, Cripple Wa's famous floating crap game was just getting under way. Several dozen cowled figures knelt or squatted around the little circle of packed earth where Wa's three eight-sided dice bounced and spun their misleading lesson in statistical probability.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Three!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Tuphal's Eyes, by lo!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's got you there, Hummok! This guy knows how to roll his bones!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S A KNACK.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Hummok M'guk, a small flat-faced man from one of the Hublandish tribes whose skill at dice was famed wherever two men gathered together to fleece a third, picked up the dice and glared at them. He silently cursed Wa, whose own skill at switching dice was equally notorious among the cognoscenti but had, apparently, failed him, wished a painful and untimely death on the shadowy player seated opposite and hurled the dice into the mud.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Twenty-one the hard way!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa scooped up the dice and handed them to the stranger. As he turned to Hummok one eye flickered ever so slightly. Hummok was impressed — he'd barely noticed the blur in Wa's deceptively gnarled fingers, and <em class="calibre9">he'd</em> been watching for it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was disconcerting the way the things rattled in the stranger's hand and then flew out of it in a slow arc that ended with twenty-four little spots pointing at the stars.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some of the more streetwise in the crowd shuffled away from the stranger, because luck like that can be very unlucky in Cripple Wa's floating crap game.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa's hand closed over the dice with a noise like the click of a trigger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All the eights,' he breathed. 'Such luck is uncanny, mister.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The rest of the crowd evaporated like dew, leaving only those heavy-set, unsympathetic-looking men who, if Wa had ever paid tax, would have gone down on his return as Essential Plant and Business Equipment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Maybe it's not luck,' he added. 'Maybe it's wizarding?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I MOST STRONGLY RESENT THAT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We had a wizard once who tried to get rich,' said Wa. 'Can't seem to remember what happened to him. Boys?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We give him a good talking-to —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— and left him in Pork Passage —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— and in Honey Lane —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— and a couple other places I can't remember.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger stood up. The boys closed in around him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THIS IS UNCALLED FOR. I SEEK ONLY TO LEARN. WHAT PLEASURE CAN HUMANS FIND IN A MERE REITERATION OF THE LAWS OF CHANCE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Chance doesn't come into it. Let's have a look at him, boys.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The events that followed were recalled by no living soul except the one belonging to a feral cat, one of the city's thousands, that was crossing the alley en route to a tryst. It stopped and watched with interest.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The boys froze in mid-stab. Painful purple light flickered around them. The stranger pushed his hood back and picked up the dice, and then pushed them into Wa's unresisting hand. The man was opening and shutting his mouth, his eyes unsuccessfully trying not to see what was in front of them. Grinning.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THROW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa managed to look down at his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are the stakes?' he whispered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IF YOU WIN, YOU WILL REFRAIN FROM THESE RIDICULOUS ATTEMPTS TO SUGGEST THAT CHANCE GOVERNS THE AFFAIRS OF MEN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Yes. And . . . if I lose?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU WILL WISH YOU HAD WON.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa tried to swallow, but his throat had gone dry. 'I know I've had lots of people murdered —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TWENTY-THREE, TO BE PRECISE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it too late to say I'm sorry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SUCH THINGS DO NOT CONCERN ME. NOW THROW THE DICE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa shut his eyes and dropped the dice on to the ground, too nervous even to try the special flick-and-twist throw. He kept his eyes shut.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALL THE EIGHTS. THERE, THAT WASN'T TOO DIFFICULT, WAS IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wa fainted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death shrugged, and walked away, pausing only to tickle the ears of an alley cat that happened to be passing. He hummed to himself. He didn't quite know what had come over him, but he was enjoying it.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You couldn't be sure it would work!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell spread his hands in a conciliatory gesture.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, no,' he conceded, 'but I thought, what have I got to lose?' He backed away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What have you got to lose?' shouted Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stamped forward and tugged the bolt out of one of the posts in the princess's bed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're not going to tell me this went through me?' he snapped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was particularly watching it,' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I saw it too,' said Keli. 'It was horrible. It came right out of where your heart is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And I saw you walk through a stone pillar,' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And <em class="calibre9">I</em> saw you ride straight through a window.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but that <em class="calibre9">was</em> on business,' declared Mort, waving his hands in the air. 'That wasn't everyday, that's different. And —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He paused. The way you're looking at me,' he said. They looked at me the same way in the inn this evening. What's wrong?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It was the way you waved your arm straight through the bedpost,' said Keli faintly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stared at his hand, and then rapped it on the wood.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'See?' he said. 'Solid. Solid arm, solid wood.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You said people looked at you in an inn?' said Cutwell. 'What did you do, then? Walk through the wall?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No! I mean, no, I just drank this drink, I think it was called scrumble —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Scumble?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Tastes like rotten apples. You'd have thought it was some sort of poison the way they kept staring.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How much did you drink, then?' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A pint, perhaps, I wasn't really paying much attention —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you know scumble is the strongest alcoholic drink between here and the Ramtops?' the wizard demanded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. No one said,' said Mort. 'What's it got to do with—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' said Cutwell, slowly, 'you didn't know. Hmm. That's a clue, isn't it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Has it got anything to do with saving the princess?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Probably not. I'd like to have a look at my books, though.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In that case it's not important,' said Mort firmly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned to Keli, who was looking at him with the faint beginnings of admiration.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think I can help,' he said. 'I think I can lay my hands on some powerful magic. Magic will hold back the dome, won't it, Cutwell?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My magic won't. It'd have to be pretty strong stuff, and I'm not sure about it even then. Reality is tougher than —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall go,' said Mort. 'Until tomorrow, farewell!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It is tomorrow,' Keli pointed out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort deflated slightly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right, tonight then,' he said, slightly put out, and added, 'I will begone!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Begone what?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's hero talk,' said Cutwell, kindly. 'He can't help it.' Mort scowled at him, smiled bravely at Keli and walked out of the room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He might have opened the door,' said Keli, after he had gone.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think he was a bit embarrassed,' said Cutwell. 'We all go through that stage.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, of walking through things?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'In a manner of speaking. Walking into them, anyway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm going to get some sleep,' Keli said. 'Even the dead need some rest. Cutwell, stop fiddling with that crossbow, please. I'm sure it's not wizardly to be alone in a lady's boudoir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hmm? But I'm not alone, am I? You're here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That,' she said, 'is the point, isn't it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. Yes. Sorry. Um. I'll see you in the morning, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Goodnight, Cutwell. Shut the door behind you.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sun crept over the horizon, decided to make a run for it, and began to rise.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But it would be some time before its slow light rolled across the sleeping Disc, herding the night ahead of it, and nocturnal shadows still ruled the city.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They clustered now around The Mended Drum in Filigree Street, foremost of the city's taverns. It was famed not for its beer, which looked like maiden's water and tasted like battery acid, but for its clientele. It was said that if you sat long enough in the Drum, then sooner or later every major hero on the Disc would steal your horse.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The atmosphere inside was still loud with talk and heavy with smoke although the landlord was doing all those things landlords do when they think it's time to close, like turn some of the lights out, wind up the clock, put a cloth over the pumps and, just in case, check the whereabouts of their club with the nails hammered in it. Not that the customers were taking the slightest bit of notice, of course. To most of the Drum's clientele even the nailed club would have been considered a mere hint.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>However, they were sufficiently observant to be vaguely worried by the tall dark figure standing by the bar and drinking his way through its entire contents.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Lonely, dedicated drinkers always generate a mental field which ensures complete privacy, but this particular one was radiating a kind of fatalistic gloom that was slowly emptying the bar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This didn't worry the barman, because the lonely figure was engaged in a very expensive experiment.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Every drinking place throughout the multiverse has them — those shelves of weirdly-shaped, sticky bottles that not only contain exotically-named liquid, which is often blue or green, but also odds and ends that bottles of real drink would never stoop to contain, such as whole fruits, bits of twig and, in extreme cases, small drowned lizards. No-one knows why barmen stock so many, since they all taste like treacle dissolved in turpentine. It has been speculated that they dream of a day when someone will walk in off the street unbidden and ask for a glass of Peach Corniche with A Hint Of Mint and overnight the place will become somewhere To Be Seen At.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger was working his way along the row.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS THAT GREEN ONE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord peered at the label.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It says it's Melon Brandy,' he said doubtfully. 'It says it's bottled by some monks to an ancient recipe, 'he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I WILL TRY IT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The man looked sideways at the empty glasses on the counter, some of them still containing bits of fruit salad, cherries on a stick and small paper umbrellas.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you sure you haven't had enough?' he said. It worried him vaguely that he couldn't seem to make out the stranger's face.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The glass, with its drink crystallising out on the sides, disappeared into the hood and came out again empty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO. WHAT IS THE YELLOW ONE WITH THE WASPS IN IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Spring Cordial, it says. Yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES. AND THEN THE BLUE ONE WITH THE GOLD FLECKS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Er. Old Overcoat?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES. AND THEN THE SECOND ROW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which one did you have in mind?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALL OF THEM.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger remained bolt upright, the glasses with their burdens of syrup and assorted vegetation disappearing into the hood on a production line basis.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is it, the landlord thought, this is style, this is where I buy a red jacket and maybe put some monkey nuts and a few gherkins on the counter, get a few mirrors around the place, replace the sawdust. He picked up a beer-soaked cloth and gave the woodwork a few enthusiastic wipes, spreading the drips from the cordial glasses into a rainbow smear that took the varnish off. The last of the usual customers put on his hat and staggered out, muttering to himself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I DON'T SEE THE POINT, the stranger said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS SUPPOSED TO HAPPEN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How many drinks have you had?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FORTY-SEVEN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just about anything, then,' said the barman and, because he knew his job and knew what was expected of him when people drank alone in the small hours, he started to polish a glass with the slops cloth and said, 'Your lady thrown you out, has she?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>PARDON?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Drowning your sorrows, are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVE NO SORROWS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, of course not. Forget I mentioned it.' He gave the glass a few more wipes. 'Just thought it helps to have someone to talk to,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger was silent for a moment, thinking. Then he said: YOU WANT TO TALK TO ME?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Sure. I'm a good listener.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO-ONE EVER WANTED TO TALK TO ME BEFORE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's a shame.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THEY NEVER INVITE ME TO PARTIES, YOU KNOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Tch.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THEY ALL HATE ME. EVERYONE HATES ME. I DONT HAVE A SINGLE FRIEND.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Everyone ought to have a friend,' said the barman sagely.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I THINK —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I THINK . . . I THINK I COULD BE FRIENDS WITH THE GREEN BOTTLE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord slid the octagon-bottle along the counter. Death took it and tilted it over the glass. The liquid tinkled on the rim.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I'M DRUNK YOU THINK, DON'T YOU?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I serve anyone who can stand upright best out of three,' said the landlord.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOURRRE ABSOROOTLY RIGHT. BUT I —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger paused, one declamatory finger in the air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WAS WHAT I SAYING?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You said I thought you were drunk.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH. YES, <em class="calibre9">BUT</em> I CAN BE SHOBER ANY TIME I LIKE. THIS ISH AN EXPERIMENT. AND NOW I WOULD LIKES TO EXPERIMENT WITH THE ORANGE BRANDY AGAIN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord sighed, and glanced at the clock. There was no doubt that he was making a lot of money, especially since the stranger didn't seem inclined to worry about overcharging or short change. But it was getting late; in fact it was getting so late that it was getting early. There was also something about the solitary customer that unsettled him. People in The Mended Drum often drank as though there was no tomorrow, but this was the first time he'd actually felt they might be right.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I MEAN, WHAT HAVE I GOT TO LOOK FORWARD TO? WHERE'S THE SENSE IN IT ALL? WHAT IS IT REALLY ALL ABOUT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can't say, my friend. I expect you'll feel better after a good night's sleep.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SLEEP? SLEEP? I NEVER SLEEP. I'M WOSSNAME, PROVERBIAL FOR IT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Everyone needs their sleep. Even me,' he hinted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THEY ALL HATE ME, YOU KNOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, you said. But it's a quarter to three.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The stranger turned unsteadily and looked around the silent room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NO ONE IN THE PLACE BUT YOU AND I, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord lifted up the flap and came around the bar, helping the stranger down from his stool.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVEN'T GOT A SINGLE FRIEND. EVEN CATS FIND ME AMUSING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A hand shot out and grabbed a bottle of Amanita Liquor before the man managed to propel its owner to the door, wondering how someone so thin could be so heavy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I DON'T HAVE TO BE DRUNK, I SAID. WHY DO PEOPLE LIKE TO BE DRUNK? IS IT FUN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Helps them forget about life, old chap. Now just you lean there while I get the door open —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FORGET ABOUT LIFE. HA. HA.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You come back any time you like, y'hear?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU'D REALLY LIKE TO SEE ME AGAIN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The landlord looked back at the small heap of coins on the bar. That was worth a little weirdness. At least this one was a quiet one, and seemed to be harmless.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, yes,' he said, propelling the stranger into the street and retrieving the bottle in one smooth movement. 'Drop in anytime.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT'S THE NICEHEST THING —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The door slammed on the rest of the sentence.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell sat up in bed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The knocking came again, soft and urgent. She pulled the covers up to her chin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who is it?' she whispered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's me, Mort,' came the hiss under the door. 'Let me in, please!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Wait!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell scrambled frantically on the bedside table for the matches, knocking over a bottle of toilet water and dislodging a box of chocolates that was now mostly discarded wrappers. Once she'd got the candle alight she adjusted its position for maximum effect, tweaked the line of her nightdress into something more revealing, and said: 'It's not locked.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort staggered into the room, smelling of horses and frost and scumble.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope,' said Ysabell archly, 'that you have not forced your way in here in order to take advantage of your position in this household.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked around him. Ysabell was heavily into frills. Even the dressing table seemed to be wearing a petticoat. The whole room wasn't so much furnished as lingeried.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look, I haven't got time to mess around,' he said. 'Bring that candle into the library. And for heaven's sake put on something sensible, you're overflowing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell looked down, and then her head snapped up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort poked his head back round the door. 'It's a matter of life and death,' he added, and disappeared.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell watched the door creak shut after him, revealing the blue dressing gown with the tassels that Death had thought up for her as a present last Hogswatch and which she hadn't the heart to throw away, despite the fact that it was a size too small and had a rabbit on the pocket.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finally she swung her legs out of bed, slipped into the shameful dressing gown, and padded out into the corridor. Mort was waiting for her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Won't father hear us?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's not back. Come on.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How can you tell?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The place feels different when he's here. It's — it's like the difference between a coat when it's being worn and when it's hanging on a hook. Haven't you noticed?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are we doing that's so important?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort pushed open the library door. A gust of warm, dry air drifted out, and the door hinges issued a protesting creak.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We're going to save someone's life,' he said. 'A princess, actually.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell was instantly fascinated.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A real princess? I mean can she feel a pea through a dozen mattresses?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can she —?' Mort felt a minor worry disappear. 'Oh. Yes. I thought Albert had got it wrong.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you in love with her?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort came to a standstill between the shelves, aware of the busy little scritchings inside the book covers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's hard to be sure,' he said. 'Do I look it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You look a bit flustered. How does she feel about you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't know.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' said Ysabell knowingly, in the tones of an expert. 'Unrequited love is the worst kind. It's probably not a good idea to go taking poison or killing yourself, though,' she added thoughtfully. 'What are we doing here? Do you want to find her book to see if she marries you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've read it, and she's dead,' said Mort. 'But only technically. I mean, not really dead.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good, otherwise that would be necromancy. What are we looking for?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Albert's biography.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What for? I don't think he's got one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Everyone's got one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, he doesn't like people asking personal questions. I looked for it once and I couldn't find it. Albert by itself isn't much to go on. Why is he so interesting?' Ysabell lit a couple of candles from the one in her hand and filled the library with dancing shadows.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I need a powerful wizard and I think he's one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, Albert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Only we're looking for Alberto Malich. He's more than two thousand years old, I think.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, Albert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes. Albert.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He never wears a wizard's hat,' said Ysabell doubtfully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He lost it. Anyway, the hat isn't compulsory. Where do we start looking?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, if you're sure . . . the Stack, I suppose. That's where father puts all the biographies that are more than five hundred years old. It's this way.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She led the way past the whispering shelves to a door set in a cul-de-sac. It opened with some effort and the groan of the hinges reverberated around the library; Mort fancied for a moment that all the books paused momentarily in their work just to listen.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Steps led down into the velvet gloom. There were cobwebs and dust, and air that smelled as though it had been locked in a pyramid for a thousand years.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'People don't come down here very often,' said Ysabell. 'I'll lead the way.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort felt something was owed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I must say,' he said, 'you're a real brick.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean pink, square and dumpy? You really know how to talk to a girl, my boy.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort automatically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Stack was as dark and silent as a cave deep underground. The shelves were barely far enough apart for one person to walk between them, and towered up well beyond the dome of candlelight. They were particularly eerie because they were silent. There were no more lives to write; the books slept. But Mort felt that they slept like cats, with one eye open. They were aware.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I came down here once,' said Ysabell, whispering. 'If you go far enough along the shelves the books run out and there's clay tablets and lumps of stone and animal skins and everyone's called Ug and Zog.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The silence was almost tangible. Mort could feel the books watching them as they tramped through the hot, silent passages. Everyone who had ever lived was here somewhere, right back to the first people that the gods had baked out of mud or whatever. They didn't exactly resent him, they were just wondering about why he was here.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you get past Ug and Zog?' he hissed. There's a lot of people would be very interested to know what's there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I got frightened. It's a long way and I didn't have enough candles.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pity.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell stopped so sharply that Mort cannoned into the back of her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This would be about the right area,' she said. 'What now?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort peered at the faded names on the spines.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They don't seem to be in any order!' he moaned.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They looked up. They wandered down a couple of side alleys. They pulled a few books off the lowest shelves at random, raising pillows of dust.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This is silly,' said Mort at last. There's millions of lives here. The chances of finding his are worse than —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell laid her hand against his mouth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Listen!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort mumbled a bit through her fingers and then got the message. He strained his ears, striving to hear anything above the heavy hiss of absolute silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And then he found it. A faint, irritable scratching. High, high overhead, somewhere in the impenetrable darkness on the cliff of shelves, a life was still being written.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They looked at each other, their eyes widening. Then Ysabell said, 'We passed a ladder back there. On wheels.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The little castors on the bottom squeaked as Mort rolled it back. The top end moved too, as if it was fixed to another set of wheels somewhere up in the darkness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right,' he said. 'Give me the candle, and —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If the candle's going up, then so am I,' said Ysabell firmly. 'You stop down here and move the ladder when I say. And don't argue.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It might be dangerous up there,' said Mort gallantly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It might be dangerous down here,' Ysabell pointed out. 'So I'll be up the ladder with the candle, thank you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She set her foot on the bottom rung and was soon no more than a frilly shadow outlined in a halo of candlelight that soon began to shrink.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort steadied the ladder and tried not to think of all the lives pressing in on him. Occasionally a meteor of hot wax would thump into the floor beside him, raising a crater in the dust. Ysabell was now a faint glow far above, and he could feel every footstep as it vibrated down the ladder.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She stopped. It seemed to be for quite a long time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then her voice floated down, deadened by the weight of silence around them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, I've found it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good. Bring it down.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, you were right.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Okay, thanks. Now bring it down,'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, Mort, but which one?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't mess about, that candle won't last much longer.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, there's a whole <em class="calibre9">shelf</em>!'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now it really was dawn, that cusp of the day that belonged to no one except the seagulls in Morpork docks, the tide that rolled in up the river, and a warm turnwise wind that added a smell of spring to the complex odour of the city.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death sat on a bollard, looking out to sea. He had decided to stop being drunk. It made his head ache.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He'd tried fishing, dancing, gambling and drink, allegedly four of life's greatest pleasures, and wasn't sure that he saw the point. Food he was happy with — Death liked a good meal as much as anyone else. He couldn't think of any other pleasures of the flesh or, rather, he could, but they were, well, <em class="calibre9">fleshy</em>, and he couldn't see how it would be possible to go about them without some major bodily restructuring, which he wasn't going to contemplate. Besides, humans seemed to leave off doing them as they grew older, so presumably they couldn't be that attractive.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death began to feel that he wouldn't understand people as long as he lived.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sun made the cobbles steam and Death felt the faintest tingling of that little springtime urge that can send a thousand tons of sap pumping through fifty feet of timber in a forest.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The seagulls swooped and dived around him. A one-eyed cat, down to its eighth life and its last ear, emerged from its lair in a heap of abandoned fish boxes, stretched, yawned, and rubbed itself against his legs. The breeze, cutting through Ankh's famous smell, brought a hint of spices and fresh bread.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death was bewildered. He couldn't fight it. He was actually feeling glad to be alive, and very reluctant to be Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I MUST BE SICKENING FOR SOMETHING, he thought.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort eased himself up the ladder alongside Ysabell. It was shaky, but seemed to be safe. At least the height didn't bother him; everything below was just blackness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some of Albert's earlier volumes were very nearly falling apart. He reached out for one at random, feeling the ladder tremble underneath them as he did so, brought it back and opened it somewhere in the middle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Move the candle this way,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can you read it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sort of —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— "turnered hys hand, butt was sorelie vexed that alle menne at laste comme to nort, viz. Deathe, and vowed hymme to seke Imortalitie yn his pride. 'Thus,' he tolde the younge wizzerds, 'we may take unto ourselfes the mantel of Goddes.' Thee next day, yt being raining, Alberto" —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's written in Old,' he said. 'Before they invented spelling. Let's have a look at the latest one.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was Albert all right. Mort caught several references to fried bread.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Let's have a look at what he's doing now,' said Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Do you think we should? It's a bit like spying.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'So what? Scared?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He flicked through until he came to the unfilled pages, and then turned back until he found the story of Albert's life, crawling across the page at surprising speed considering it was the middle of the night; most biographies didn't have much to say about sleep, unless the dreams were particularly vivid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hold the candle properly, will you? I don't want to get grease on his life.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why not? He likes grease.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop giggling, you'll have us both off. Now look at this bit. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— 'He crept through the dusty darkness of the Stack —' Ysabell read — 'his eyes fixed on the tiny glow of candlelight high above. Prying, he thought, poking away at things that shouldn't concern them, the little devils' —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort! He's —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Shut up! I'm reading!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>— 'soon put a stop to this. Albert crept silently to the foot of the ladder, spat on his hands, and got ready to push. The master'd never know; he was acting strange these days and it was all that lad's fault, and' —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked up into Ysabell's horrified eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then the girl took the book out of Mort's hand, held it at arm's length while her gaze remained fixed woodenly on his, and let it go.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort watched her lips move and then realized that he, too, was counting under his breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Three, four —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a dull thump, a muffled cry, and silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Do you think you've killed him?' said Mort, after a while.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, <em class="calibre9">here</em>? Anyway, I didn't notice any better ideas coming from you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, but — he is an old man, after all.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, he's not,' said Ysabell sharply, starting down the ladder.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Two thousand years?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not a day over sixty-seven.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The books said —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I told you, time doesn't apply here. Not <em class="calibre9">real</em> time. Don't you listen, boy?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And stop treading on my fingers, I'm going as fast as I can.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And don't act so wet. Have you any idea how boring it is living here?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Probably not,' said Mort, adding with genuine longing, 'I've heard about boredom but I've never had a chance to try it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's dreadful.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If it comes to that, excitement isn't all it's cracked up to be.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Anything's got to be better than this.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a groan from below, and then a stream of swearwords.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell peered into the gloom.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Obviously I didn't damage his cursing muscles,' she said. 'I don't think I ought to listen to words like that. It could be bad for my moral fibre.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They found Albert slumped against the foot of the bookshelf, muttering and holding his arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's no need to make that kind of fuss,' said Ysabell briskly. 'You're not hurt; father simply doesn't allow that kind of thing to happen.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you have to go and do that for?' he moaned. 'I didn't mean any harm.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You were going to push us off,' said Mort, trying to help him up. 'I read it. I'm surprised you didn't use magic.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert glared at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, so you've found out, have you?' he said quietly. 'Then much good may it do you. You've no right to go prying.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He struggled to his feet, shook off Mort's hand, and stumbled back along the hushed shelves.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, wait,' said Mort, 'I need your help!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, of course,' said Albert over his shoulder. 'It stands to reason, doesn't it? You thought, I'll just go and pry into someone's private life and then I'll drop it on him and then I'll ask him to help me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I only wanted to find out if you were really you,' said Mort, running after him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am. Everyone is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But if you don't help me something terrible will happen! There's this princess, and she —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Terrible things happen all the time, boy —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— Mort —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— and no one expects me to do anything about it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But you were the greatest!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert stopped for a moment, but did not look around.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Was</em> the greatest, <em class="calibre9">was</em> the greatest. And don't you try to butter me up. I ain't butterable.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They've got statues to you and everything,' said Mort, trying not to yawn.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'More fool them, then.' Albert reached the foot of the steps into the library proper, stamped up them and stood outlined against the candlelight from the library.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean you won't help?' said Mort. 'Not even if you can?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Give the boy a prize,' growled Albert. 'And it's no good thinking you can appeal to my better nature under this here crusty exterior,' he added, 'cos my interior's pretty damn crusty too.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They heard him cross the library floor as though he had a grudge against it, and slam the door behind him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well,' said Mort, uncertainly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you expect?' snapped Ysabell. 'He doesn't care for anyone much except father.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's just that I thought someone like him would help if I explained it properly,' said Mort. He sagged. The rush of energy that had propelled him through the long night had evaporated, filling his mind with lead. 'You know he was a famous wizard?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That doesn't mean anything, wizards aren't necessarily nice. Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards because a refusal often offends, I read somewhere.' Ysabell stepped closer to Mort and peered at him with some concern. 'You look like something left on a plate,' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' 'M okay,' said Mort, walking heavily up the steps and into the scratching shadows of the library.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're not. You could do with a good night's sleep, my lad.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'M't,' murmured Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt Ysabell slip his arm over her shoulder. The walls were moving gently, even the sound of his own voice was coming from a long way off, and he dimly felt how nice it would be to stretch out on a nice stone slab and sleep forever.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death'd be back soon, he told himself, feeling his unprotesting body being helped along the corridors. There was nothing for it, he'd have to tell Death. He wasn't such a bad old stick. Death would help; all he needed to do was explain things. And then he could stop all this worrying and go to slee....</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And what was your previous position?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I BEG YOUR PARDON?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What did you do for a living?' said the thin young man behind the desk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The figure opposite him shifted uneasily.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I USHERED SOULS INTO THE NEXT WORLD. I WAS THE GRAVE OF ALL HOPE. I WAS THE ULTIMATE REALITY. I WAS THE ASSASSIN AGAINST WHOM NO LOCK WOULD HOLD.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, point taken, but do you have any particular skills?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death thought about it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I SUPPOSE A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF EXPERTISE WITH AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS? he ventured after a while.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The young man shook his head firmly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>'This is a city, Mr —' he glanced down, and once again felt a faint unease that he couldn't quite put his finger on — 'Mr — Mr — Mr, and we're a bit short of fields.'</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>He laid down his pen and gave the kind of smile that suggested he'd learned it from a book.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>Ankh-Morpork wasn't advanced enough to possess an employment exchange. People took jobs because their fathers made room for them, or because their natural talent found an opening, or by word-of-mouth. But there was a call for servants and menial workers, and with the commercial sections of the city beginning to boom the thin young man — a Mr Liona Keeble — had invented the profession of job broker and was, right at this moment, finding it difficult.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>'My dear Mr —' he glanced down — 'Mr, we get many people coming into the city from outside because, alas, they believe life is richer here. Excuse me for saying so, but you seem to me to be a gentleman down on his luck. I would have thought you would have preferred something rather more refined than —' he glanced down again, and frowned — ' "something nice working with cats or flowers".'</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>I'M SORRY. I FELT IT WAS TIME FOR A CHANGE.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>'Can you play a musical instrument ?'</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>NO.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>'Can you do carpentry?'</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>I DO NOT KNOW, I HAVE NEVER TRIED. Death tared at his feet. He was beginning to feel deeply embarrassed.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>Keeble shuffled the paper on his desk, and sighed.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>I CAN WALK THROUGH WALLS, Death volunteered, aware that the conversation had reached an impasse.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>Keeble looked up brightly. 'I'd like to see that,' he said. 'That could be quite a qualification.'</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <span>RIGHT.</span>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death pushed his chair back and stalked confidently towards the nearest wall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>OUCH.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keeble watched expectantly. 'Go on, then,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>UM. THIS IS AN ORDINARY WALL, IS IT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I assume so. I'm not an expert.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT SEEMS TO BE PRESENTING ME WITH SOME DIFFICULTY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'So it would appear.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT DO YOU CALL THE FEELING OF BEING VERY SMALL AND HOT?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keeble twiddled his pencil.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pygmy?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BEGINS WITH AN M.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Embarrassing?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'YES,' said Death, I MEAN YES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever,' he said. 'Have you thought of going into teaching?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death's face was a mask of terror. Well, it was always a mask of terror, but this time he meant it to be.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You see,' said Keeble kindly, putting down his pen and steepling his hands together, 'it's very seldom I ever have to find a new career for an — what was it again?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ANTHROPOMORPHIC PERSONIFICATION.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, yes. What <em class="calibre9">is</em> that, exactly?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death had had enough.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THIS, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>For a moment, just for a moment, Mr Keeble saw him clearly. His face went nearly as pale as Death's own. His hands jerked convulsively. His heart gave a stutter.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death watched him with mild interest, then drew an hourglass from the depths of his robe and held it up to the light and examined it critically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SETTLE DOWN, he said, YOU'VE GOT A GOOD FEW YEARS YET.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Bbbbbbb —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I COULD TELL YOU HOW MANY IF YOU LIKE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keeble, fighting to breathe, managed to shake his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DO YOU WANT ME TO GET YOU A GLASS OF WATER, THEN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'nnN — nnN.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The shop bell jangled. Keeble's eyes rolled. Death decided that he owed the man something. He shouldn't be allowed to lose custom, which was clearly something humans valued dearly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He pushed aside the bead curtain and stalked into the outer shop, where a small fat woman, looking rather like an angry cottage loaf, was hammering on the counter with a haddock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's about that cook's job up at the University,' she said. 'You told me it was a good position and it's a disgrace up there, the tricks them students play, and I demand — I want you to — I'm not.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Her voice trailed off.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' 'Ere,' she said, but you could tell her heart wasn't in it, 'you're not Keeble, are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stared at her. He'd never before experienced an unsatisfied customer. He was at a loss. Finally he gave up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BEGONE, YOU BLACK AND MIDNIGHT HAG, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The cook's small eyes narrowed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' 'Oo are you calling a midnight bag?' she said accusingly, and hit the counter with the fish again. 'Look at this,' she said. 'Last night it was my bedwarmer, in the morning it's a fish. I ask you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MAY ALL THE DEMONS OF HELL REND YOUR LIVING SPIRIT IF YOU DON'T GET OUT OF THE SHOP THIS MINUTE, Death tried.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know about that, but what about my bedwarmer? It's no place for a respectable woman up there, they tried to —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IF YOU WOULD CARE TO GO AWAY, said Death desperately, I WILL GIVE YOU SOME MONEY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How much?' said the cook, with a speed that would have outdistanced a striking rattlesnake and given lightning a nasty shock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death pulled out his coin bag and tipped a heap of verdigrised and darkened coins on the counter. She regarded them with deep suspicion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NOW LEAVE UPON THE INSTANT, said Death, and added, BEFORE THE SEARING WINDS OF INFINITY SCORCH THY WORTHLESS CARCASS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My husband will be told about this,' said the cook darkly, as she left the shop. It seemed to Death that no threat of his could possibly be as dire.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stalked back through the curtains. Keeble, still slumped in his chair, gave a kind of strangled gurgle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It was true!' he said. 'I thought you were a nightmare!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I COULD TAKE OFFENCE AT THAT, said Death.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You really are Death?' said Keeble.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why didn't you say?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>PEOPLE USUALLY PREFER ME NOT TO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keeble scrabbled among his papers, giggling hysterically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You want to do something else?' he said. Tooth fairy? Water sprite? Sandman?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DO NOT BE FOOLISH. I SIMPLY — FEEL I WANT A CHANGE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keeble's frantic rustling at last turned up the paper he'd been searching for. He gave a maniacal laugh and thrust it into Death's hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death read it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THIS IS A JOB? PEOPLE ARE PAID TO DO THIS?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, yes, go and see him, you're just the right type. Only don't tell him I sent you.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky moved at a hard gallop across the night, the Disc unrolling far below his hooves. Now Mort found that the sword could reach out further than he had thought, it could reach the stars themselves, and he swung it across the deeps of space and into the heart of a yellow dwarf which went nova most satisfactorily. He stood in the saddle and whirled the blade around his head, laughing as the blue flame fanned across the sky leaving a trail of darkness and embers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And didn't stop. Mort struggled as the sword cut through the horizon, grinding down the mountains, drying up the seas, turning green forests into punk and ashes. He heard voices behind him, and the brief screams of friends and relatives as he turned desperately. Dust storms whirled from the dead earth as he fought to release his own grip, but the sword burned icy cold in his hand, dragging him on in a dance that would not end until there was nothing left alive.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And that time came, and Mort stood alone except for Death, who said, 'A fine job, boy.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And Mort said, MORT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort! Mort! Wake up!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort surfaced slowly, like a corpse in a pond. He fought against it, clinging to his pillow and the horrors of sleep, but someone was tugging urgently at his ear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mmmph?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Wsst</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, it's father!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He opened his eyes and stared up blankly into Ysabell's face. Then the events of the previous night hit him like a sock full of damp sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swung his legs out of bed, still wreathed in the remains of his dream.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yeah, okay,' he said. 'I'' go and see him directly.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's not here! Albert's going crazy!' Ysabell stood by the bed, tugging a handkerchief between her hands. 'Mort, do you think something bad has happened to him?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gave her a blank look. 'Don't be bloody stupid,' he said, 'he's Death.' He scratched his skin. He felt hot and dry and itchy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But he's never been away this long! Not even when there was that big plague in Pseudopolis! I mean, he has to be here in the mornings to do the books and work out the nodes and —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort grabbed her arms. 'All right, all right,' he said, as soothingly as he could manage. 'I'm sure everything's okay. Just settle down, I'll go and check . . . why have you got your eyes shut?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, please put some clothes on,' said Ysabell in a tight little voice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' he said meekly, 'I didn't realize . . . Who put me to bed?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I did,' she said. 'But I looked the other way.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort dragged on his breeches, shrugged into his shirt and hurried out towards Death's study with Ysabell on his heels. Albert was in there, jumping from foot to foot like a duck on a griddle. When Mort came in the look on the old man's face could almost have been gratitude.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort saw with amazement that there were tears in his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'His chair hasn't been sat in,' Albert whined.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry, but is that important?' said Mort. 'My grandad didn't used to come home for days if he'd had a good sale at the market.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But he's always here,' said Albert. 'Every morning, as long as I've known him, sitting here at his desk a-working on the nodes. It's his job. He wouldn't miss it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I expect the nodes can look after themselves for a day or two,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The drop in temperature told him he was wrong. He looked at their faces.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They can't?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Both heads shook.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If the nodes aren't worked out properly all the Balance is destroyed,' said Ysabell. 'Anything could happen.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Didn't he explain?' said Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not really. I've really only done the practical side. He said he'd tell me about the theoretical stuff later,' said Mort. Ysabell burst into tears.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert took Mort's arm and, with considerable dramatic waggling of his eyebrows, indicated that they should have a little talk in the corner. Mort trailed after him reluctantly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The old man rummaged in his pockets and at last produced a battered paper bag.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Peppermint?' he enquired.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shook his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He never tell you about the nodes?' said Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shook' his head again. Albert gave his peppermint a suck; it sounded like the plughole in the bath of God.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How old are you, lad?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort. I'm sixteen.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's some things a lad ought to be told before he's sixteen,' said Albert, looking over his shoulder at Ysabell, who was sobbing in Death's chair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, I know about <em class="calibre9">that</em>. My father told me all about that when we used to take the thargas to be mated. When a man and a woman —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'About the universe is what I meant,' said Albert hurriedly. 'I mean, have you ever thought about it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know the Disc is carried through space on the backs of four elephants that stand on the shell of Great A'Tuin,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's just part of it. I meant the whole universe of time and space and life and death and day and night and everything.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can't say I've ever given it much thought,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. You ought. The point is, the nodes are part of it. They stop death from getting out of control, see. Not him, not Death. Just death itself. Like, uh —' Albert struggled for words — 'like, death should come exactly at the end of life, see, and not before or after, and the nodes have to be worked out so that the key figures . . . you're not taking this in, are you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They've got to be worked out,' said Albert flatly, 'and then the correct lives have got to be got. The hourglasses, you call them. The actual Duty is the easy job.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Can you do it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. Can you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert sucked reflectively at his peppermint. That's the whole world in the gyppo, then,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look, I can't see why you're so worried. I expect he's just got held up somewhere,' said Mort, but it sounded feeble even to him. It wasn't as though people buttonholed Death to tell him another story, or clapped him on the back and said things like 'You've got time for a quick half in there, my old mate, no need to rush off home' or invited him to make up a skittles team and come out for a Klatchian take-away afterwards, or . . . It struck Mort with sudden, terrible poignancy that Death must be the loneliest creature in the universe. In the great party of Creation, he was always in the kitchen.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sure I don't know what's come over the master lately,' mumbled Albert. 'Out of the chair, my girl. Let's have a look at these nodes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They opened the ledger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They looked at it for a long time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then Mort said, 'What do all those symbols mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sodomy non sapiens,' said Albert under his breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What does that mean?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Means I'm buggered if I know.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That was wizard talk, wasn't it?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You shut up about wizard talk. I don't know anything about wizard talk. You apply your brain to this here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked down again at the tracery of lines. It was as if a spider had spun a web on the page, stopping at every junction to make notes. Mort stared until his eyes hurt, waiting for some spark of inspiration. None volunteered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Any luck?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's all Klatchian to me,' said Mort. 'I don't even know whether it should be read upside down or sideways.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Spiralling from the centre outwards,' sniffed Ysabell from her seat in the corner.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Their heads collided as they both peered at the centre of the page. They stared at her. She shrugged.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Father taught me how to read the node chart,' she said, 'when I used to do my sewing in here. He used to read bits out.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can help?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' said Ysabell. She blew her nose.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What do you mean, no?' growled Albert. "This is too important for any flighty —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I mean,' said Ysabell, in razor tones, 'that I can do them and you can help.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Ankh-Morpork Guild of Merchants has taken to hiring large gangs of men with ears like fists and fists like large bags of walnuts whose job it is to re-educate those misguided people who publicly fail to recognize the many attractive points of their fine city. For example the philosopher Catroaster was found floating face downward in the river within hours of uttering the famous line, 'When a man is tired of Ankh-Morpork, he is tired of ankle-deep slurry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Therefore it is prudent to dwell on one — of the very many, of course — on one of the things that makes Ankh-Morpork renowned among the great cities of the multiverse.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is its food.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The trade routes of half the Disc pass through the city or down its rather sluggish river. More than half the tribes and races of the Disc have representatives dwelling within its sprawling acres. In Ankh-Morpork the cuisines of the world collide: on the menu are one thousand types of vegetable, fifteen hundred cheeses, two thousand spices, three hundred types of meat, two hundred fowl, five hundred different kinds of fish, one hundred variations on the theme of pasta, seventy eggs of one kind or another, fifty insects, thirty molluscs, twenty assorted snakes and other reptiles, and something pale brown and warty known as the Klatchian migratory bog truffle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Its eating establishments range from the opulent, where the portions are tiny but the plates are silver, to the secretive, where some of the Disc's more exotic inhabitants are rumoured to eat anything they can get down their throat best out of three.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Harga's House of Ribs down by the docks is probably not numbered among the city's leading eateries, catering as it does for the type of beefy clientele that prefers quantity and breaks up the tables if it doesn't get it. They don't go in for the fancy or exotic, but stick to conventional food like flightless bird embryos, minced organs in intestine skins, slices of hog flesh and burnt ground grass seeds dipped in animal fats; or, as it is known in their patois, egg, soss and bacon and a fried slice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was the kind of eating house that didn't need a menu. You just looked at Harga's vest.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Still, he had to admit, this new cook seemed to be the business. Harga, an expansive advert for his own high carbohydrate merchandise, beamed at a room full of satisfied customers. And a fast worker, too! In fact, disconcertingly fast.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He rapped on the hatch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Double egg, chips, beans, and a trollburger, hold the onions,' he rasped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>RIGHT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The hatch slid up a few seconds later and two plates were pushed through. Harga shook his head in gratified amazement.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It had been like that all evening. The eggs were bright and shiny, the beans glistened like rubies, and the chips were the crisp golden brown of sunburned bodies on expensive beaches. Harga's last cook had turned out chips like little paper bags full of pus.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Harga looked around the steamy cafe. No one was watching him. He was going to get to the bottom of this. He rapped on the hatch again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Alligator sandwich,' he said. 'And make it sna —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The hatch shot up. After a few seconds to pluck up enough courage, Harga peered under the top slice of the long saur in front of him. He wasn't saying that it was alligator, and he wasn't saying it wasn't. He knuckled the hatch again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Okay,' he said, I'm not complaining, I just want to know how you did it so fast.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TIME IS NOT IMPORTANT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You say?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>RIGHT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Harga decided not to argue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, you're doing a damn fine job in there, boy,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS IT CALLED WHEN YOU FEEL WARM AND CONTENT AND WISH THINGS WOULD STAY THAT WAY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I guess you'd call it happiness,' said Harga.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Inside the tiny, cramped kitchen, strata'd with the grease of decades, Death spun and whirled, chopping, slicing and flying. His skillet flashed through the fetid steam.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He'd opened the door to the cold night air, and a dozen neighbourhood cats had strolled in, attracted by the bowls of milk and meat — some of Harga's best, if he'd known — that had been strategically placed around the floor. Occassionally Death would pause in his work and scratch one of them behind the ears.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Happiness,' he said, and puzzled at the sound of his own voice.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell, the wizard and Royal Recognizer by appointment, pulled himself up the last of the tower steps and leaned against the wall, waiting for his heart to stop thumping.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Actually it wasn't particularly high, this tower, just high for Sto Lat. In general design and outline it looked the standard sort of tower for imprisoning princesses in; it was mainly used to store old furniture.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>However, it offered unsurpassed views of the city and the Sto plain, which is to say, you could see an awful lot of cabbages.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell made it as far as the crumbling crenellations atop the wall and looked out at the morning haze. It was, maybe, a little hazier than usual. If he tried hard he could imagine a flicker in the sky. If he really strained his imagination he could hear a buzzing out over the cabbage fields, a sound like someone frying locusts. He shivered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>At a time like this his hands automatically patted his pockets, and found nothing but half a bag of jelly babies, melted into a sticky mass, and an apple core. Neither offered much consolation.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>What Cutwell wanted was what any normal wizard wanted at a time like this, which was a smoke. He'd have killed for a cigar, and would have gone as far as a flesh wound for a squashed dog-end. He pulled himself together. Resolution was good for the moral fibre; the only trouble was the fibre didn't appreciate the sacrifices he was making for it. They said that a truly great wizard should be permanently under tension. You could have used Cutwell for a bowstring.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned his back on the brassica-ed landscape and made his way back down the winding steps to the main part of the palace.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Still, he told himself, the campaign appeared to be working. The population didn't seem to be resisting the fact that there was going to be a coronation, although they weren't exactly clear about who was going to be crowned. There was going to be bunting in the streets and Cutwell had arranged for the town square's main fountain to run, if not with wine, then at least with an acceptable beer made from broccoli. There was going to be folk dancing, at sword point if necessary. There would be races for children. There would be an ox roast. The royal coach had been regilded and Cutwell was optimistic that people could be persuaded to notice it as it went by.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The High Priest at the Temple of Blind Io was going to be a problem. Cutwell had marked him down as a dear old soul whose expertise with the knife was so unreliable that half of the sacrifices got tired of waiting and wandered away. The last time he'd tried to sacrifice a goat it had time to give birth to twins before he could focus, and then the courage of motherhood had resulted in it chasing the entire priesthood out of the temple.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The chances of him succeeding in putting the crown on the right person even in normal circumstances were only average, Cutwell had calculated; he'd have to stand alongside the old boy and try tactfully to guide his shaking hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Still, even that wasn't the big problem. The big problem was much bigger than that. The big problem had been sprung on him by the Chancellor after breakfast.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fireworks?' Cutwell had said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's the sort of thing you wizard fellows are supposed to be good at, isn't it?' said the Chancellor, as crusty as a week-old loaf. 'Flashes and bangs and whatnot. I remember a wizard when I was a lad —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm afraid I don't know anything about fireworks,' said Cutwell, in tones designed to convey that he cherished this ignorance.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Lots of rockets,' the Chancellor reminisced happily. 'Ankhian candles. Thunderflashes. And thingies that you can hold in your hand. It's not a proper coronation without fireworks.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but, you see —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good man,' said the Chancellor briskly, 'knew we could rely on you. Plenty of rockets, you understand, and to finish with there must be a set-piece, mind you, something really breathtaking like a portrait of — of —' his eyes glazed over in a way that was becoming depressingly familiar to Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The Princess Keli,' he said wearily.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah. Yes. Her,' said the Chancellor. 'A portrait of — who you said — in fireworks. Of course, it's probably all pretty simple stuff to you wizards, but the people like it. Nothing like a good blowout and a blowup and a bit of balcony waving to keep the loyalty muscles in tip-top shape, that's what I always say. See to it. Rockets. With runes on.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>An hour ago Cutwell had thumbed through the index of <em class="calibre9">The Monster Fun Grimoire</em> and had cautiously assembled a number of common household ingredients and put a match to them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Funny thing about eyebrows, he mused. You never really noticed them until they'd gone.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Red around the eyes, and smelling slightly of smoke, Cutwell ambled towards the royal apartments past bevies of maids engaged in whatever it was maids did, which always seemed to take at least three of them. Whenever they saw Cutwell they would usually go silent, hurry past with their heads down and then break into muffled giggles along the corridor. This annoyed Cutwell. Not — he told himself quickly — because of any personal considerations, but because wizards ought to be shown more respect. Besides, some of the maids had a way of looking at him which caused him to think distinctly unwizardly thoughts.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Truly, he thought, the way of enlightenment is like unto half a mile of broken glass.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He knocked on the door of Keli's suite. A maid opened it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is your mistress in?' he said, as haughtily as he could manage.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The maid put her hand to her mouth. Her shoulders shook. Her eyes sparkled. A sound like escaping steam crept between her fingers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I can't help it, Cutwell thought, I just seem to have this amazing effect on women.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it a man?' came Keli's voice from within. The maid's eyes glazed over and she tilted her head, as if not sure of what she had heard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's me, Cutwell,' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, that's all right, then. You can come in.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell pushed past the girl and tried to ignore the muffled laughter as the maid fled the room. Of course, everyone knew a wizard didn't need a chaperon. It was just the tone of the princess's 'Oh, that's all right then' that made him writhe inside.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli was sitting at her dressing table, brushing her hair. Very few men in the world ever find out what a princess wears under her dresses, and Cutwell joined them with extreme reluctance but with remarkable self-control. Only the frantic bobbing of his adam's apple betrayed him. There was no doubt about it, he'd be no good for magic for <em class="calibre9">days</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She turned and he caught a whiff of talcum powder. For <em class="calibre9">weeks</em>, dammit, for <em class="calibre9">weeks</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You look a bit hot, Cutwell. Is something the matter?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Naarg.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sorry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He shook himself. Concentrate on the hairbrush, man, the hairbrush. 'Just a bit of magical experimenting, ma'am. Only superficial burns.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is <em class="calibre9">it</em> still moving?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am afraid so.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli turned back to the mirror. Her face was set.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have we got time?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This was the bit he'd been dreading. He'd done everything he could. The Royal Astrologer had been sobered up long enough to insist that tomorrow was the only possible day the ceremony could take place, so Cutwell had arranged for it to begin one second after midnight. He'd ruthlessly cut the score of the royal trumpet fanfare. He'd timed the High Priest's invocation to the gods and then subedited heavily; there was going to be a row when the gods found out. The ceremony of the anointing with sacred oils had been cut to a quick dab behind the ears. Skateboards were an unknown invention on the Disc; if they hadn't been, Keli's trip up the aisle would have been unconstitutionally fast. And it still wasn't enough. He nerved himself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think possibly not,' he said. 'It could be a very close thing.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He saw her glare at him in the mirror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How close?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. Very.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you trying to say it might reach us at the same time as the ceremony?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. More sort of, um, before it,' said Cutwell wretchedly. There was no sound but the drumming of Keli's fingers on the edge of the table. Cutwell wondered if she was going to break down, or smash the mirror. Instead she said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How do you know?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He wondered if he could get away with saying something like, I'm a wizard, we know these things, but decided against it. The last time he'd said that she'd threatened him with the axe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I asked one of the guards about that inn Mort talked about,' he said. Then I worked out the approximate distance it had to travel. Mort said it was moving at a slow walking pace, and I reckon his stride is about —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'As simple as that? You didn't use magic?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Only common sense. It's a lot more reliable in the long run.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She reached out and patted his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Poor old Cutwell,' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am only twenty, ma'am.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She stood up and walked over to her dressing room. One of the things you learn when you're a princess is always to be older than anyone of inferior rank.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, I suppose there must be such things as young wizards,' she said over her shoulder. 'It's just that people always think of them as old. I wonder why this is?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Rigours of the calling, ma'am,' said Cutwell, rolling his eyes. He could hear the rustle of silk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What made you decide to become a wizard?' Her voice was muffled, as if she had something over her head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's indoor work with no heavy lifting,' said Cutwell. 'And I suppose I wanted to learn how the world worked.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have you succeeded, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.' Cutwell wasn't much good at small talk, otherwise he'd never have let his mind wander sufficiently to allow him to say: 'What made you decide to become a princess?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After a thoughtful silence she said, 'It was decided for me, you know.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry, I —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Being royal is a sort of family tradition. I expect it's the same with magic; no doubt your father was a wizard?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell gritted his teeth. 'Um. No,' he said, 'not really. Absolutely not, in fact.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He knew what she would say next, and here it came, reliable as the sunset, in a voice tinged with amusement and fascination.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh? Is it really true that wizards aren't allowed to —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, if that's all I really should be going,' said Cutwell loudly. 'If anyone wants me, just follow the explosions. I — <em class="calibre9">gnnnh</em>!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli had stepped out of the dressing room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Now, women's clothes were not a subject that preoccupied Cutwell much — in fact, usually when he thought about women his mental pictures seldom included any clothes at all — but the vision in front of him really did take his breath away. Whoever had designed the dress didn't know when to stop. They'd put lace over the silk, and trimmed it with black vermine, and strung pearls anywhere that looked bare, and puffed and starched the sleeves and then added silver filigree and then started again with the silk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact it really was amazing what could be done with several ounces of heavy metal, some irritated molluscs, a few dead rodents and a lot of thread wound out of insects' bottoms. The dress wasn't so much worn as occupied; if the outlying flounces weren't supported on wheels, then Keli was stronger than he'd given her credit for.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What do you think?' she said, turning slowly. 'This was worn by my mother, and my grandmother, and her mother.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What, all together?' said Cutwell, quite prepared to believe it. How can she get into it? he wondered. There must be a door round the back. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a family heirloom. It's got real diamonds on the bodice.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Which bit's the bodice?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This bit.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell shuddered. 'It's very impressive,' he said, when he could trust himself to speak. 'You don't think it's perhaps a bit mature, though?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's queenly.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but perhaps it won't allow you to move very fast?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I have no intention of running. There must be dignity.' Once again the set of her jaw traced the line of her descent all the way to her conquering ancestor, who preferred to move very fast at all times and knew as much about dignity as could be carried on the point of a sharp spear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell spread his hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right,' he said. 'Fine. We all do what we can. I just hope Mort has come up with some ideas.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's hard to have confidence in a ghost,' said Keli. 'He walks through walls!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've been thinking about that,' said Cutwell. 'It's a puzzle, isn't it? He walks through things only if he doesn't know he's doing it. I think it's an industrial disease.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was nearly sure last night. He's becoming real.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But we're all real! At least, you are, and I suppose I am.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But he's becoming more real. Extremely real. Nearly as real as Death, and you don't get much realler. Not much realler at all.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you sure?' said Albert, suspiciously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Of course,' said Ysabell. 'Work it out yourself if you like.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert looked back at the big book, his face a portrait of uncertainty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, they could be about right,' he conceded with bad grace, and copied out the two names on a scrap of paper. There's one way to find out, anyway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He pulled open the top drawer of Death's desk and extracted a big iron keyring. There was only one key on it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT HAPPENS NOW? said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We've got to fetch the lifetimers,' said Albert. 'You have to come with me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort!' hissed Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What you just said —' She lapsed into silence, and then added, 'Oh, nothing. It just sounded . . . odd.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I only asked what happens now,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but — oh, never mind:'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert brushed past them and sidled out into the hallway like a two-legged spider until he reached the door that was always kept locked. The key fitted perfectly. The door swung open. There wasn't so much as a squeak from its hinges, just a swish of deeper silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And the roar of sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort and Ysabell stood in the doorway, transfixed, as Albert stamped off between the aisles of glass. The sound didn't just enter the body via the ears, it came up through the legs and down through the skull and filled up the brain until all that it could think of was the rushing, hissing grey noise, the sound of millions of lives being lived. And rushing towards their inevitable destination.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They stared up and out at the endless ranks of lifetimers, every one different, every one named. The light from torches ranged along the walls picked highlights off them, so that a star gleamed on every glass. The far walls of the room were lost in the galaxy of light.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort felt Ysabell's fingers tighten on his arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When she spoke, her voice was strained. 'Mort, some of them are so <em class="calibre9">small</em>.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I KNOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Her grip relaxed, very gently, like someone putting the top ace on a house of cards and taking their hand away gingerly so as not to bring the whole edifice down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Say that again?' she said quietly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I said I know. There's nothing I can do about it. Haven't you been in here before?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.' She had withdrawn slightly, and was staring at his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's no worse than the library,' said Mort, and almost believed it. But in the library you only read about it; in here you could see it happening.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why are you looking at me like that?' he added.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was just trying to remember what colour your eyes were,' she said, 'because —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If you two have quite had enough of each other!' bellowed Albert above the roar of the sand. 'This way!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Brown,' said Mort to Ysabell. 'They're brown. Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hurry up!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You'd better go and help him,' said Ysabell. 'He seems to be getting quite upset.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort left her, his mind a sudden swamp of uneasiness, and stalked across the tiled floor to where Albert stood impatiently tapping a foot.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What do I have to do?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just follow me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The room opened out into a series of passages, each one lined with the hourglasses. Here and there the shelves were divided by stone pillars inscribed with angular markings. Albert glanced at them occasionally; mainly he strode through the maze of sand as though he knew every turn by heart.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is there one glass for everyone, Albert?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This place doesn't look big enough.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Do you know anything about m-dimensional topography?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Um. No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then I shouldn't aspire to hold any opinions, if I was you,' said Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He paused in front of a shelf of glasses, glanced at the paper again, ran his hand along the row and suddenly snatched up a glass. The top bulb was almost empty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hold this,' he said. 'If this is right, then the other should be somewhere near. Ah. Here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned the two glasses around in his hands. One had all the markings of an important life, while the other one was squat and quite unremarkable.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort read the names. The first seemed to refer to a nobleman in the Agatean Empire regions. The second was a collection of pictograms that he recognized as originating in Turnwise Klatch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Over to you,' Albert sneered. The sooner you get started, the sooner you'll be finished. I'll bring Binky round to the front door.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Do my eyes look all right to you?' said Mort, anxiously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Nothing wrong with them that I can see,' said Albert. 'Bit red round the edges, bit bluer than usual, nothing special.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort followed him back past the long shelves of glass, looking thoughtful. Ysabell watched him take the sword from the rack by the door and test its edge by swishing it through the air, just as Death did, and grinning mirthlessly at the satisfactory sound of the thunderclap.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She recognized the walk. He was <em class="calibre9">stalking</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort?' she whispered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Something's happening to you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I KNOW, said Mort. 'But I think I can control it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They heard the sound of hooves outside, and Albert pushed the door open and came in rubbing his hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right, lad, no time to —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swung the sword at arm's length. It scythed through the air with a noise like ripping silk and buried itself in the doorpost by Albert's ear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ON YOUR KNEES, ALBERTO MALICH.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert's mouth dropped open. His eyes rolled sideways to the shimmering blade a few inches from his head, and then narrowed to tight little lines.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You surely wouldn't dare, boy,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MORT. The syllable snapped out as fast as a whiplash and twice as vicious.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a pact,' said Albert, but there was the barest gnat-song of doubt in his voice. 'There was an agreement.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not with me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There was an agreement! Where would we be if we could not honour an agreement?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know where I would be,' said Mort softly. BUT I KNOW WHERE YOU WOULD GO. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's not fair!' Now it was a whine. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NO JUSTICE. THERE'S JUST ME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop it,' said Ysabell. 'Mort, you're being silly. You can't kill anyone here. Anyway, you don't really want to kill Albert.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not here. But I could send him back to the world.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert went pale.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You wouldn't!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No? I can take you back and leave you there. I shouldn't think you've got much time left, have you?' HAVE YOU?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't talk like that,' said Albert, quite failing to meet his gaze. 'You sound like the master when you talk like that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I could be a lot worse than the master,' said Mort evenly. 'Ysabell, go and get Albert's book, will you?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, I really think you're —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SHALL I ASK YOU AGAIN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She fled from the room, white-faced.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert squinted at Mort along the length of the sword, and smiled a lop-sided, humourless smile.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You won't be able to control it forever,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't want to. I just want to control it for long enough.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're receptive now, see? The longer the master is away, the more you'll become just like him. Only it'll be worse, because you'll remember all about being human and —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What about you, then?' snapped Mort. 'What can you remember about being human? If you went back, how much life have you got left?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ninety-one days, three hours and five minutes,' said Albert promptly. 'I knew he was on my trail, see? But I'm safe here and he's not such a bad master. Sometimes I don't know what he'd do without me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, no one dies in Death's own kingdom. And you're pleased with that?' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm more than two thousand years old, I am. I've lived longer than anyone in the world.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shook his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You haven't, you know,' he said. 'You've just stretched things out more. No one really lives here. The time in this place is just a sham. It's not real. Nothing changes. I'd rather die and see what happens next than spend eternity here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert pinched his nose reflectively. 'Yes, well, you might,' he conceded, 'but I was a wizard, you know. I was pretty good at it. They put up a statue to me, you know. But you don't live a long life as a wizard without making a few enemies, see, ones who'll . . . wait on the Other Side.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He sniffed. They ain't all got two legs, either. Some of them ain't got legs at all. Or faces. Death don't frighten me. It's what comes after.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Help me, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What good will that do me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'One day you might need some friends on the Other Side,' said Mort. He thought for a few seconds and added, 'If I were you, it wouldn't do any harm to give my soul a bit of a last-minute polish. Some of those waiting for you might not like the taste of that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert shuddered and shut his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't know about that what you talk about,' he added, with more feeling than grammar, 'else you wouldn't say that. What do you want from me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort told him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert cackled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just that? Just change Reality? You can't. There isn't any magic strong enough any more. The Great Spells could of done it. Nothing else. And that's it, so you might as well do as you please and the best of luck to you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell came back, a little out of breath, clutching the latest volume of Albert's life. Albert sniffed again. The tiny drip on the end of his nose fascinated Mort. It was always on the point of dropping off but never had the courage. Just like him, he thought.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can't do anything to me with the book,' said the old wizard warily.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't intend to. But it strikes me that you don't get to be a powerful wizard by telling the truth all the time. Ysabell, read out what's being written.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' "Albert looked at him uncertainly",' Ysabell read.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can't believe everything writ down there —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— "he burst out, knowing in the flinty pit of his heart that Mort certainly could",' Ysabell read.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop it!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' "he shouted, trying to put at the back of his mind the knowledge that even if Reality could not be stopped it might be possible to slow it down a little".'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HOW?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' "intoned Mort in the leaden tones of Death",' began Ysabell dutifully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, yes, all right, you needn't bother with my bit,' snapped Mort irritably.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pardon me for living, I'm sure.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO ONE GETS PARDONED FOR LIVING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And don't talk like that to me, thank you. It doesn't frighten me,' she said. She glanced down at the book, where the moving line of writing was calling her a liar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Tell me how, wizard,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My magic's all I've got left!' wailed Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't need it, you old miser.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't frighten me, boy —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LOOK INTO MY FACE AND TELL ME THAT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort snapped his fingers imperiously. Ysabell bent her head over the book again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>' "Albert looked into the blue glow of those eyes and the last of his defiance drained away",' she read, ' "for he saw not just Death but Death with all the human seasonings of vengeance and cruelty and distaste, and with a terrible certainty he knew that this was the last chance and Mort would send him back into Time and hunt him down and take him and deliver him bodily into the dark Dungeon Dimensions where creatures of horror would dot dot dot dot dot",' she finished. 'It's just dots for half a page.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's because the book daren't even mention them,' whispered Albert. He tried to shut his eyes but the pictures in the darkness behind his eyelids were so vivid that he opened them again. Even Mort was better than that.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right,' he said. There is one spell. It slows down time over a little area. I'll write it down, but you'll have to find a wizard to say it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can do that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert ran a tongue like an old loafah over his dry lips.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There is a price, though,' he added. 'You must complete the Duty first.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ysabell?' said Mort. She looked at the page in front of her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He means it,' she said. 'If you don't then everything will go wrong and he'll drop back into Time anyway.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>All three of them turned to look at the great clock that dominated the hallway. Its pendulum blade sawed slowly through the air, cutting time into little pieces.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort groaned.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There isn't enough time!' he groaned. 'I can't do both of them in time!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The master would have found time,' observed Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort wrenched the blade from the doorway and shook it furiously but ineffectually towards Albert, who flinched.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Write down the spell, then,' he shouted. 'And do it fast!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned on his heel and stalked back into Death's study. There was a large disc of the world in one corner, complete down to solid silver elephants standing on the back of a Great A'Tuin cast in bronze and more than a metre long. The great rivers were represented by veins of jade, the deserts by powdered diamond and the most notable cities were picked out in precious stones; Ankh-Morpork, for instance, was a carbuncle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He plonked the two glasses down at the approximate locations of their owners and flopped down in Death's chair, glaring at them, willing them to be closer together. The chair squeaked gently as he swivelled from side to side, glowering at the little disc.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>After a while Ysabell came in, treading softly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Albert's written it down,' she said quietly, 'I've checked the book. It isn't a trick. He's gone and locked himself in his room now and —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look at these two! I mean, will you look at them!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think you should calm down a bit, Mort.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How can I calm down with, look, this one over here almost in the Great Nef, and <em class="calibre9">this</em> one right in Bes Pelargic and then I've got to get back to Sto Lat. That's a ten thousand mile round trip however you look at it. It can't be done.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sure you'll find a way. And I'll help.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked at her for the first time and saw she was wearing her outdoor coat, the unsuitable one with the big fur collar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You? What could you do?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Binky can easily carry two,' said Ysabell meekly. She waved a paper package vaguely. 'I've packed us something to eat. I could — hold open doors and things.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort laughed mirthlessly. THAT WON'T BE NECESSARY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I wish you'd stop talking like that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can't take passengers. You'll slow me down.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell sighed. 'Look, how about this? Let's pretend we've had the row and I've won. See? It saves a lot of effort. I actually think you might find Binky rather reluctant to go if I'm not there. I've fed him an awful lot of sugar lumps over the years. Now — are we going?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert sat on his narrow bed, glowering at the wall. He heard the sound of hoofbeats, abruptly cut off as Binky got airborne, and muttered under his breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Twenty minutes passed. Expressions flitted across the old wizard's face like cloud shadows across a hillside. Occasionally he'd whisper something to himself, like 'I told 'em' or 'Never would of stood for it' or 'The master ought to be tole'.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Eventually he seemed to reach an agreement with himself, knelt down gingerly and pulled a battered trunk from under his bed. He opened it with difficulty and unfolded a dusty grey robe that scattered mothballs and tarnished sequins across the floor. He pulled it on, brushed off the worst of the dust, and crawled under the bed again. There was a lot of muffled cursing and the occasional clink of china and finally Albert emerged holding a staff taller than he was.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was thicker than any normal staff, mainly because of the carvings that covered it from top to bottom. They were actually quite indistinct, but gave the impression that if you could see them better you would regret it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert brushed himself down again and examined himself critically in the washstand mirror.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then he said, 'Hat. No hat. Got to have a hat for the wizarding. Damn.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stamped out of the room and returned after a busy fifteen minutes which included a circular hole cut out of the carpet in Mort's bedroom, the silver paper taken out from behind the mirror in Ysabell's room, a needle and thread from the box under the sink in the kitchen and a few loose sequins scraped up from the bottom of the robe chest. The end result was not as good as he would have liked and tended to slip rakishly over one eye, but it was black and had stars and moons on it and proclaimed its owner to be, without any doubt, a wizard, although possibly a desperate one.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He felt properly dressed for the first time in two thousand years. It was a disconcerting feeling and caused him a second's reflection before he kicked aside the rag rug beside the bed and used the staff to draw a circle on the floor.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When the tip of the staff passed it left a line of glowing octarine, the eighth colour of the spectrum, the colour of magic, the pigment of the imagination.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He marked eight points on its circumference and joined them up to form an octogram. A low throbbing began to fill the room.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Alberto Malich stepped into the centre and held the staff above his head. He felt it wake to his grip, felt the tingle of the sleeping power unfold itself slowly and deliberately, like a waking tiger. It triggered old memories of power and magic that buzzed through the cobwebbed attics of his mind. He felt alive for the first time in centuries.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He licked his lips. The throbbing had died away, leaving a strange, waiting kind of silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Malich raised his head and shouted one single syllable.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Blue-green fire flashed from both ends of the staff. Streams of octarine flame spouted from the eight pouits of the octogram and enveloped the wizard. All this wasn't actually necessary to accomplish the spell, but wizards consider appearances are very </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>important. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So are disappearances. He vanished.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Stratohemispheric winds whipped at Mort's cloak.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where are we going first?' yelled Ysabell in his ear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Bes Pelargic!' shouted Mort, the gale whirling his words away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Where's that?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Agatean Empire! Counterweight Continent!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He pointed downward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He wasn't forcing Binky at the moment, knowing the miles that lay ahead, and the big white horse was currently running at an easy gallop out over the ocean. Ysabell looked down at roaring green waves topped with white foam, and clung tighter to Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort peered ahead at the cloudbank that marked the distant continent and resisted the urge to hurry Binky along with the flat of his sword. He'd never struck the horse and wasn't at all confident about what would happen if he did. All he could do was wait.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A hand appeared under his arm, holding a sandwich.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's ham or cheese and chutney,' she said. 'You might as well eat, there's nothing else to do.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked down at the soggy triangle and tried to remember when he last had a meal. Some time beyond the reach of a clock, anyway — he'd need a calendar to calculate it. He took the sandwich.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thanks,' he said, as graciously as he could manage.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The tiny sun rolled down towards the horizon, towing its lazy daylight behind it. The clouds ahead grew, and became outlined in pink and orange. After a while he could make out the darker blur of land below them, with here and there the lights of a city.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Half an hour later he was sure he could see individual buildings. Agatean architecture inclined towards squat pyramids.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky lost height until his hooves were barely a few feet above the sea. Mort examined the hourglass again, and gently tugged on the reins to direct the horse towards a seaport a little Rimwards of their present course.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There were a few ships at anchor, mostly single-sailed coastal traders. The Empire didn't encourage its subjects to go far away, in case they saw things that might disturb them. For the same reason it had built a wall around the entire country, patrolled by the Heavenly Guard whose main function was to tread heavily on the fingers of any inhabitants who felt they might like to step outside for five minutes for a breath of fresh air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This didn't happen often, because most of the subjects of the Sun Emperor were quite happy to live inside the Wall. It's a fact of life that everyone is on one side or other of a wall, so the only thing to do is forget about it or evolve stronger fingers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who runs this place?' said Ysabell, as they passed over the harbour.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's some kind of boy emperor,' said Mort. 'But the top man is really the Grand Vizier, I think.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Never trust a Grand Vizier,' said Ysabell wisely.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In fact the Sun Emperor didn't. The Vizier, whose name was Nine Turning Mirrors, had some very clear views about who should run the country, e.g., that it should be him, and now the boy was getting big enough to ask questions like 'Don't you think the wall would look better with a few gates in it?' and 'Yes, but what is it like on the other side?' he had decided that in the Emperor's own best interests he should be painfully poisoned and buried in quicklime.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky landed on the raked gravel outside the low, many-roomed palace, severely rearranging the harmony of the universe.<span>[8]</span> Mort slid off his back and helped Ysabell down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Just don't get in the way, will you?' he said urgently. 'And don't ask questions either.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He ran up some lacquered steps and hurried through the silent rooms, pausing occasionally to take his bearings from the hourglass. At last he sidled down a corridor and peered through an ornate lattice into a long low room where the Court was at its evening meal.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The young Sun Emperor was sitting crosslegged at the head of the mat with his cloak of vermine and feathers spread out behind him. He looked as though he was outgrowing it. The rest of the Court was sitting around the mat in strict and complicated order of precedence, but there was no mistaking the Vizier, who was tucking into his bowl of <em class="calibre9">squishi</em> and boiled seaweed in a highly suspicious fashion. No-one seemed to be about to die.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort padded along the passage, turned the corner and nearly walked into several large members of the Heavenly Guard, who were clustered around a spyhole in the paper wall and passing a cigarette from hand to hand in that palm-cupped way of soldiers on duty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He tiptoed back to the lattice and overheard the conversation thus:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I am the most unfortunate of mortals, O Immanent Presence, to find such as this in my otherwise satisfactory <em class="calibre9">squishi</em>,' said the Vizier, extending his chopsticks.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Court craned to see. So did Mort. Mort couldn't help agreeing with the statement, though — the thing was a sort of blue-green lump with rubbery tubes dangling from it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The preparer of food will be disciplined, Noble Personage of Scholarship,' said the Emperor. 'Who got the spare ribs?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, O Perceptive Father of Your People, I was rather referring to the fact that this is, I believe, the bladder and spleen of the deepwater puff eel, allegedly the most tasty of morsels to the extent that it may be eaten only by those beloved of the gods themselves or so it is written, among such company of course I do not include my miserable self.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>With a deft flick he transported it to the bowl of the Emperor, where it wobbled to a standstill. The boy looked at it for some time, and then skewered it on a chopstick.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Ah,' he said, 'but is it not also written by none other than the great philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle that a scholar may be ranked above princes? I seem to remember you giving me the passage to read once, O Faithful and Assiduous Seeker of Knowledge.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The thing followed another brief arc through the air and flopped apologetically into the Vizier's bowl. He scooped it up in a quick movement and poised it for a second service. His eyes narrowed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Such may be generally the case, O Jade River of Wisdom, but specifically I cannot be ranked above the Emperor whom I love as my own son and have done ever since his late father's unfortunate death, and thus I lay this small offering at your feet.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The eyes of the court followed the wretched organ on its third flight across the mat, but the Emperor snatched up his fan and brought off a magnificent volley that ended back in the Vizier's bowl with such force that it sent up a spray of seaweed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Somebody</em> eat it, for heaven's sake,' shouted Mort, totally unheard. 'I'm in a hurry!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thou art indeed the most thoughtful of servants, 0 Devoted and Indeed Only Companion of My Late Father and Grandfather When They Passed Over, and therefore I decree that your reward shall be this most rare and exquisite of morsels.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Vizier prodded the thing uncertainly, and looked into the Emperor's smile. It was bright and terrible. He fumbled for an excuse.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Alas, it would seem that I have already eaten far too much —' he began, but the Emperor waved him into silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Doubtless it requires a suitable seasoning,' he said, and clapped his hands. The wall behind him ripped from top to bottom and four Heavenly Guards stepped through, three of them brandishing <em class="calibre9">cando</em> swords and the fourth trying hurriedly to swallow a lighted dog-end.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Vizier's bowl dropped from his hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My most faithful of servants believes he has no space left for this final mouthful,' said the Emperor. 'Doubtless you can investigate his stomach to see if this is true. Why has that man got smoke coming out of his ears?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Anxious for action, O Sky Eminence,' said the sergeant quickly. 'No stopping him, I'm afraid.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then let him take his knife and — oh, the Vizier seems to be hungry after all. Well done.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was absolute silence while the Vizier's cheeks bulged rhythmically. Then he gulped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Delicious,' he said. 'Superb. Truly the food of the gods, and now, if you will excuse me —' He unfolded his legs and made as if to stand up. Little beads of sweat had appeared on his forehead.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You wish to depart?' said the Emperor, raising his eyebrows.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Pressing matters of state, O Perspicacious Personage of —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Be seated. Rising so soon after meals can be bad for the digestion,' said the Emperor, and the guards nodded agreement. 'Besides, there are no urgent matters of state unless you refer to those in the small red bottle marked "Antidote" in the black lacquered cabinet on the bamboo rug in your quarters, O Lamp of Midnight Oil.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a ringing in the Vizier's ears. His face began to go blue.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You see?' said the Emperor. 'Untimely activity on a heavy stomach is conducive to ill humours. May this message go swiftly to all corners of my country, that all men may know of your unfortunate condition and derive instruction thereby.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I . . . must . . . congratulate your . . . Personage on such . . . consideration,' said the Vizier, and fell forward into a dish of boiled soft-shelled crabs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I had an <em class="calibre9">excellent</em> teacher,' said the Emperor.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ABOUT TIME, TOO, said Mort, and swung the sword.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A moment later the soul of the Vizier got up from the mat and looked Mort up and down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who are you, barbarian?' he snapped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DEATH.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not my Death,'said the Vizier firmly. 'Where's the Black Celestial Dragon of Fire?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>HE COULDN'T COME, said Mort. There were shadows forming in the air behind the Vizier's soul. Several of them wore emperor's robes, but there were plenty of others jostling them, and they all looked most anxious to welcome the newcomer to the lands of the dead.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think there's some people here to see you,' said Mort, and hurried away. As he reached the passageway the Vizier's soul started to scream. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell was standing patiently by Binky, who was making a late lunch of a five-hundred-year-old bonsai tree.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'One down,' said Mort, climbing into the saddle. 'Come on. I've got a bad feeling about the next one, and we haven't much time.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert materialised in the centre of Unseen University, in the same place, in fact, from which he had departed the world some two thousand years before.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He grunted with satisfaction and brushed a few specks of dust off his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He became aware that he was being watched; on looking up, he discovered that he had flashed into existence under the stern marble gaze of himself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He adjusted his spectacles and peered disapprovingly at the bronze plaque screwed to his pedestal. It said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Alberto Malich, Founder of This University. AM 1,222-1,289. "We Will Not See His Like Again".'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>So much for prediction, he thought. And if they thought so much of him they could at least have hired a decent sculptor. It was disgraceful. The nose was all wrong. Call that a leg? People had been carving their names on it, too. He wouldn't be seen dead in a hat like that, either. Of course, if he could help it, he wouldn't be seen dead at all.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert aimed an octarine thunderbolt at the ghastly thing and grinned evilly as it exploded into dust.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right,' he said to the Disc at large, 'I'm back.' The tingle from the magic coursed all the way up his arm and started a warm glow in his mind. How he'd missed it, all these years.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Wizards came hurrying through the big double doors at the sound of the explosion and cleared the wrong conclusion from a standing start.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was the pedestal, empty. There was a cloud of marble dust over everything. And striding out of it, muttering to himself, was Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wizards at the back of the crowd started to have it away as quickly and quietly as possible. There wasn't one of them that hadn't, at some time in his jolly youth, put a common bedroom utensil on old Albert's head or carved his name somewhere on the statue's chilly anatomy, or spilled beer on the pedestal. Worse than that, too, during Rag Week when the drink flowed quickly and the privy seemed too far to stagger. These had all seemed hilarious ideas at the time. They suddenly didn't, now.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Only two figures remained to face the statue's wrath, one because he had got his robe caught in the door and the other because he was, in fact, an ape and could therefore take a relaxed attitude to human affairs.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert grabbed the wizard, who was trying desperately to walk into the wall. The man squealed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right, all right, I admit it! I was drunk at the time, believe me, didn't mean it, gosh, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you bleating about, man?' said Albert, genuinely puzzled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— so sorry, if I tried to tell you how sorry I am we'd —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop this bloody nonsense!' Albert glanced down at the little ape, who gave him a warm friendly smile. 'What's your name, man?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, sir, I'll stop, sir, right away, no more nonsense, sir . . . Rincewind, sir. Assistant librarian, if it's all right by you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert looked him up and down. The man had a desperate scuffed look, like something left out for the laundry. He decided that if this was what wizarding had come to, someone ought to do something about it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What sort of librarian would have you for assistant?' he demanded irritably.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oook.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Something like a warm soft leather glove tried to hold his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'A monkey! In my university!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Orang-outang, sir. He used to be a wizard but got caught in some magic, sir, now he won't let us turn him back, and he's the only one who knows where all the books are,' said Rincewind urgently. 'I look after his bananas,' he added, feeling some additional explanation was called for.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert glared at him. 'Shut up.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Shutting up right away, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And tell me where Death is.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Death, sir?' said Rincewind, backing against the wall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Tall, skeletal, blue eyes, stalks, TALKS LIKE THIS . . . Death. Seen him lately?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Rincewind swallowed. 'Not lately, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, I want him. This nonsense has got to stop. I'm going to stop it <em class="calibre9">now</em>, see? I want the eight most senior wizards assembled <em class="calibre9">here</em>, right, in half an hour with all the necessary equipment to perform the Rite of AshkEnte, is that understood? Not that the sight of you lot gives me any confidence. Bunch of pantywaisters the lot of you, and stop trying to hold my hand!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oook.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And now I'm going to the pub,' snapped Albert. 'Do they sell any halfway decent cat's piss anywhere these days?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There's the Drum, sir,' said Rincewind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The Broken Drum? In Filigree Street? Still there?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, they change the name sometimes and rebuild it completely but the site has been, er, on the site for years. I expect you're pretty dry, eh, sir?' Rincewind said, with an air of ghastly camaraderie.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What would you know about it?' said Albert sharply.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Absolutely nothing, sir,' said Rincewind promptly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm going to the Drum, then. Half an hour, mind. And if they're not waiting for me when I come back, then well, they'd just better be!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stormed out of the hall in a cloud of marble dust.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Rincewind watched him go. The librarian held his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You know the worst of it?' said Rincewind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oook?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't even <em class="calibre9">remember</em> walking under a mirror.'</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>At about the time Albert was in The Mended Drum arguing with the landlord over a yellowing bar tab that had been handed down carefully from father to son through one regicide, three civil wars, sixty-one major fires, four hundred and ninety robberies and more than fifteen thousand barroom brawls to record the fact that Alberto Malich still owed the management three copper pieces plus interest currently standing at the contents of most of the Disc's larger strongrooms, which proved once again that an Ankhian merchant with an unpaid bill has the kind of memory that would make an elephant blink . . . at about this time, Binky was leaving a vapour trail in skies above the great mysterious continent of Klatch.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Far below drums sounded in the scented, shadowy jungles and columns of curling mist rose from hidden rivers where nameless beasts lurked under the surface and waited for supper to walk past.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's no more cheese, you'll have to have the ham,' said Ysabell. 'What's that light over there?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Light Dams,' said Mort. 'We're getting closer.' He pulled the hourglass out of his pocket and checked the level of the sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But not close enough, dammit!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Light Dams lay like pools of light hubwards of their course, which is exactly what they were; some of the tribes constructed mirror walls in the desert mountains to collect the Disc sunlight, which is slow and slightly heavy. It was used as currency.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky glided over the campfires of the nomads and the silent marshes of the Tsort river. Ahead of them dark, familiar shapes began to reveal themselves in the moonlight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Pyramids of Tsort by moonlight!' breathed Ysabell, 'How romantic!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MORTARED WITH THE BLOOD OF THOUSANDS OF SLAVES, observed Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Please don't.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sorry, but the practical fact of the matter is that these —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All right, all right, you've made your point,' said Ysabell irritably.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a lot of effort to go to to bury a dead king,' said Mort, as they circled above one of the smaller pyramids. They fill them full of preservative, you know, so they'll survive into the next world.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does it work?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not noticeably.' Mort leaned over Binky's neck. 'Torches down there,' he said. 'Hang on.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A procession was winding away from the avenue of pyramids, led by a giant statue of Offler the Crocodile God borne by a hundred sweating slaves. Binky cantered above it, entirely unnoticed, and performed a perfect four-point landing on the hard-packed sand outside the pyramid's entrance.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They've pickled another king,' said Mort. He examined the glass again in the moonlight. It was quite plain, not the sort normally associated with royalty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That can't be him,' said Ysabell. They don't pickle them when they're still alive, do they?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope not, because I read where, before they do the preserving, they, um, cut them open and remove —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't want to hear it —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— all the soft bits,' Mort concluded lamely. 'It's just as well the pickling doesn't work, really, just imagine having to walk around with no —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'So it isn't the king you've come to take,' said Ysabell loudly. 'Who is it, then?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned towards the dark entrance. It wouldn't be sealed until dawn, to give time for the dead king's soul to leave. It looked deep and foreboding, hinting at purposes considerably more dire than, say, keeping a razor blade nice and sharp.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Let's find out,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Look out! He's coming back!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The University's eight most senior wizards shuffled into line, tried to smooth out their beards and in general made an unsuccessful effort to look presentable. It wasn't easy. They had been snatched from their workrooms, or a postprandial brandy in front of a roaring fire, or quiet contemplation under a handkerchief in a comfy chair somewhere, and all of them were feeling extremely apprehensive and rather bewildered. They kept glancing at the empty pedestal.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Only one creature could have duplicated the expressions on their faces, and that would be a pigeon who has heard not only that Lord Nelson has got down off his column but has also been seen buying a 12-bore repeater and a box of cartridges.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's coming up the corridor!' shouted Rincewind, and dived behind a pillar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The assembled mages watched the big double doors as if they were about to explode, which shows how prescient they were, because they exploded. Matchstick-sized bits of oak rained down among them and a small thin figure stood outlined against the light. It held a smoking staff in one hand. The other held a small yellow toad.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Rincewind!' bawled Albert.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Take this thing away and dispose of it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The toad crawled into Rincewind's hand and gave him an apologetic look.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's the last time that bloody landlord gives any lip to a wizard,' said Albert with smug satisfaction. 'It seems I turn my back for a few hundred years and suddenly people in this town are encouraged to think they can talk back to wizards, eh?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>One of the senior wizards mumbled something.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What was that? Speak up, that man!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'As the bursar of this university I must say that we've always encouraged a good neighbour policy with respect to the community,' mumbled the wizard, trying to avoid Albert's gimlet stare. He had an upturned chamber pot on his conscience, with three cases of obscene graffiti to be taken into consideration.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert let his mouth drop open. 'Why?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, er, a sense of civic duty, we feel it's vitally important that we show an examp— arrgh!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wizard tried desperately to beat out the flames in his beard. Albert lowered his staff and looked slowly along the row of mages. They swayed away from his stare like grass in a gale.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Anyone else want to show a sense of civic duty?' he said. 'Good neighbours, anybody?' He drew himself up to his full height. 'You spineless maggots! I didn't found this University so you could lend people the bloody lawnmower! What's the use of having the power if you don't wield it? Man doesn't show you respect, you don't leave enough of his damn inn to roast chestnuts on, understand?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Something like a soft sigh went up from the assembled wizards. They stared sadly at the toad in Rincewind's hand. Most of them, in the days of their youth, had mastered the art of getting rascally drunk at the Drum. Of course, all that was behind them now, but the Guild of Merchants' annual knife-and-fork supper would have been held in the Drum's upstairs room the following evening, and all the Eighth Level wizards had been sent complimentary tickets; there would have been roast swan and two kinds of trifle and lots of fraternal toasts to 'Our esteemed, nay, distinguished guests' until it was time for the college porters to turn up with the wheelbarrows.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert strutted along the row, poking the occasional paunch with his staff. His mind danced and sang. Go back? Never! This was power, this was living; he'd challenge old boniface and spit in his empty eye.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'By the Smoking Mirror of Grism, there's going to be a few changes around here!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Those wizards who had studied history nodded uncomfortably. It would be back to the stone floors and getting up when it was still dark and no alcohol under any circumstances and memorising the true names of everything until the brain squeaked.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">What's that man doing!</em>'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A wizard who had absent-mindedly reached for his tobacco pouch let the half-formed cigarette fall from his trembling fingers. It bounced when it hit the floor and all the wizards watched it roll with longing eyes until Albert stepped forward smartly and squashed it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert spun round. Rincewind, who had been following him as a sort of unofficial adjutant, nearly walked into him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You! Rincething! D'yer smoke?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No, sir! Filthy habit!' Rincewind avoided the gaze of his superiors. He was suddenly aware that he had made some lifelong enemies, and it was no consolation to know that he probably wouldn't have them for very long.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Right! Hold my staff. Now, you bunch of miserable back-sliders, this is going to stop, d'yer hear? First thing tomorrow, up at dawn, three times round the quadrangle and back here for physical jerks! Balanced meals! Study! Healthy exercise! And that bloody monkey goes to a circus, first thing!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oook?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Several of the older wizards shut their eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But first,' said Albert, lowering his voice, 'you'll oblige me by setting up the Rite of AshkEnte.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I have some unfinished business,' he added.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort strode through the cat-black corridors of the pyramid, with Ysabell hurrying along behind him. The faint glow from his sword illuminated unpleasant things; Offler the Crocodile God was a cosmetics advert compared to some of the things the people of Tsort worshipped. In alcoves along the way were statues of creatures apparently built of all the bits God had left over.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are they here for?' whispered Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The Tsortean priests say they come alive when the pyramid is sealed and prowl the corridors to protect the body of the king from tomb robbers,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What a horrible superstition.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who said anything about superstition?' said Mort absently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They really come alive?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'All I'll say is that when the Tsorteans put a curse on a place, they don't mess about.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned a corner and Ysabell lost sight of him for a heart-stopping moment. She scurried through the darkness and cannoned into him. He was examining a dog-headed bird.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Urgh,' she said. 'Doesn't it send shivers up your spine?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' said Mort flatly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why not?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BECAUSE I AM MORT. He turned, and she saw his eyes glow like blue pinpoints.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop it!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I — CAN'T.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She tried to laugh. It didn't work. 'You're not Death,' she said. 'You're only doing his job.' </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'DEATH IS WHOEVER DOES DEATH'S JOB. </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The shocked pause that followed this was broken by a groan from further along the dark passage. Mort turned on his heel and hurried towards it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He's right, thought Ysabell. Even the way he moves. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But the fear of the darkness that the light was dragging towards her overcame any other doubts and she crept after him, around another corner and into what appeared, in the fitful glow from the sword, to be a cross between a treasury and a very cluttered attic.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What's this place?' she whispered. 'I've never seen so much stuff!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE KING TAKES IT WITH HIM INTO THE NEXT WORLD, said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He certainly doesn't believe in traveling light. Look, there's a whole boat. And a gold bathtub!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DOUBTLESS HE WILL WISH TO KEEP CLEAN WHEN HE GETS THERE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And all those statues!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THOSE STATUES, I'M SORRY TO SAY, WERE PEOPLE. SERVANTS FOR THE KING, YOU UNDERSTAND.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell's face set grimly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE PRIESTS GIVE THEM POISON.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was another groan, from the other side of the cluttered room. Mort followed it to its source, stepping awkwardly over rolls of carpet, bunches of dates, crates of crockery and piles of gems. The long obviously hadn't been able to decide what he was going to leave behind on his journey, so had decided to play safe and take everything.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ONLY IT DOESNT ALWAYS WORK QUICKLY, Mort added sombrely.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell clambered gamely after him, and peered over a canoe at a young girl sprawled across a pile of rugs. She was wearing gauze trousers, a waistcoat cut from not enough material, and enough bangles to moor a decent-sized ship. There was a green stain around her mouth.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does it hurt?' said Ysabell quietly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>No. THEY THINK IT TAKES THEM TO PARADISE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MAYBE. WHO KNOWS? Mort took the hourglass out of an inner pocket and inspected it by the gleam of the sword. He seemed to be counting to himself, and then with a sudden movement tossed the glass over his shoulder and brought the sword down with his other hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The girl's shade sat up and stretched, with a clink of ghostly jewellery. She caught sight of Mort, and bowed her head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My lord!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO ONE'S LORD, said Mort. NOW RUN ALONG TO WHEREVER YOU BELIEVE YOU'RE GOING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shall be a concubine at the heavenly court of King Zetesphut, who will dwell among the stars forever,' she said firmly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You don't have to be,' said Ysabell sharply. The girl turned to her, wide-eyed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, but I must. I've been training for it,' she said, as she faded from view. 'I've only managed to be a handmaiden up till now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She vanished. Ysabell stared with dark disapproval at the space she had occupied.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well!' she said, and, 'Did you see what she had on?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LET'S GET OUT OF HERE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But it can't be true about King Whosis dwelling among the stars,' she grumbled as they found their way out of the crowded room. 'There's nothing but empty space up there.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S HARD TO EXPLAIN, said Mort. HE'LL DWELL AMONG THE STARS IN HIS OWN MIND.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'With slaves?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IF THAT'S WHAT THEY THINK THEY ARE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's not very fair.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE'S NO JUSTICE, said Mort. JUST US.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They hurried back along the avenues of waiting ghouls and were nearly running when they burst out into the desert night air. Ysabell leaned against the rough stonework and panted for breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort wasn't out of breath.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He wasn't breathing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I WILL TAKE YOU WHEREVER YOU WANT, he said, AND THEN I MUST LEAVE YOU.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But I thought you wanted to rescue the princess!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort shook his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVE NO CHOICE. THERE ARE NO CHOICES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She ran forward and grabbed his arm as he turned towards the waiting Binky. He removed her hand gently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVE FINISHED MY APPRENTICESHIP.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's all in your own mind!' yelled Ysabell. 'You're whatever you think you are!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She stopped and looked down. The sand around Mort's feet was beginning to whip up in little spurts and twirling dust devils.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a crackle in the air, and a greasy feel. Mort looked uneasy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SOMEONE IS PERFORMING THE RITE OF ASH —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It hit like a hammer, a force from out of the sky that blew the sand into a crater. There was a low buzzing and the smell of hot tin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort looked around himself in the gale of rushing sand, turning as if in a dream, alone in the calm centre of the gale. Lightning flashed in the whirling cloud. Deep inside his own mind he struggled to break free, but something had him in its grip and he could no more resist than a compass needle can ignore the compulsion to point towards the Hub.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>At last he found what he was searching for. It was a doorway edged in octarine light, leading to a short tunnel. There were figures at the other end, beckoning to him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I COME, he said, and then turned as he heard the sudden noise behind him. Eleven stone of young womanhood hit him squarely in the chest, lifting him off the ground.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort landed with Ysabell kneeling on him, holding on grimly to his arms.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>LET ME GO, he intoned. I HAVE BEEN SUMMONED.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not you, idiot!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She stared into the blue, pupil-less pools of his eyes. It was like looking down a rushing tunnel.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort arched his back and screamed a curse so ancient and virulent that in the strong magical field it actually took on a form, flapped its leathery wings and slunk away. A private thunderstorm crashed around the sand dunes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His eyes drew her again. She looked away before she dropped like a stone down a well made of blue light.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I COMMAND YOU. Mort's voice could have cut holes in rock.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Father tried that tone on me for years,' she said calmly. 'Generally when he wanted me to clean my bedroom. It didn't work then, either.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort screamed another curse, which flopped out of the air and tried to bury itself in the sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE PAIN —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's all in your head,' she said, bracing herself against the force that wanted to drag them towards that flickering doorway. 'You're not Death. You're just Mort. You're whatever I think you are.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the centre of the blurred blueness of his eyes were two tiny brown dots, rising at the speed of sight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The storm around them rose and wailed. Mort screamed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Rite of AshkEnte, quite simply, summons and binds Death. Students of the occult will be aware that it can be performed with a simple incantation, three small bits of wood and 4cc of mouse blood, but no wizard worth his pointy hat would dream of doing anything so unimpressive; they knew in their hearts that if a spell didn't involve big yellow candles, lots of rare incense, circles drawn on the floor with eight different colours of chalk and a few cauldrons around the place then it simply wasn't worth contemplating.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The eight wizards at their stations on the points of the great ceremonial octogram swayed and chanted, their arms held out sideways so they were just touching the fingertips of the mages on either side.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But something was going wrong. True, a mist had formed in the very centre of the living octogram, but it was writhing and turning in on itself, refusing to focus.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'More power!' shouted Albert. 'Give it more power!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A figure appeared momentarily in the smoke, black-robed and holding a glittering sword. Albert swore as he caught a glimpse of the pale face under the cowl; it wasn't pale enough.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No!' Albert yelled, ducking into the octogram and flailing at the flickering shape with his hands. 'Not you, not you. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And, in faraway Tsort, Ysabell forgot she was a lady, bunched her fist, narrowed her eyes and caught Mort squarely on the jaw. The world around her exploded. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the kitchen of Harga's House of Ribs the frying pan crashed to the floor, sending the cats scurrying out of the door. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the great hall of the Unseen University everything happened at once.<span>[9]</span></span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The tremendous force the wizards had been exerting on the shadow realm suddenly had one focus. Like a reluctant cork from a bottle, like a dollop of fiery ketchup from the upturned sauce bottle of Infinity, Death landed in the octogram and swore.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert realized just too late that he was inside the charmed ring and made a dive for the edge. But skeletal fingers caught him by the hem of his robe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The wizards, such of them who were still on their feet and conscious, were rather surprised to see that Death was wearing an apron and holding a small kitten.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'WHY DID YOU HAVE TO SPOIL IT ALL?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Spoil it all? Have you seen what the lad has done?' snapped Albert, still trying to reach the edge of the ring.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death raised his skull and sniffed the air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sound cut through all the other noises in the hall and forced them into silence.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was the kind of noise that is heard on the twilight edges of dreams, the sort that you wake from in a cold sweat of mortal horror. It was the snuffling under the door of dread. It was like the snuffling of a hedgehog, but if so then it was the kind of hedgehog that crashes out of the verges and flattens lorries. It was the kind of noise you wouldn't want to hear twice; you wouldn't want to hear it <em class="calibre9">once</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death straightened up slowly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IS THIS HOW HE REPAYS MY KINDNESS? TO STEAL MY DAUGHTER, INSULT MY SERVANTS, AND RISK THE FABRIC OF REALITY ON A PERSONAL WHIM? OH, FOOLISH, FOOLISH, I HAVE BEEN FOOLISH TOO LONG!</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master, if you would just be so good as to let go of my robe —' began Albert, and the wizard noticed a pleading edge to his voice that hadn't been there before.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death ignored him. He snapped his fingers like a castanet and the apron around his waist exploded into brief flames. The kitten, however, he put down very carefully and gently pushed away with his foot.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DID I NOT GIVE HIM THE GREATEST OPPORTUNITY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Exactly, master, and now if you could see your way clear —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SKILLS? A CAREER STRUCTURE? PROSPECTS? A JOB OR LIFE?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Indeed, and if you would but let go —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The change in Albert's voice was complete. The trumpets of command had become the piccolos of supplication. He sounded terrified, in fact, but he Managed to catch Rincewind's eye and hiss:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My staff! Throw me my staff! While he is in the circle he is not invincible! Let me have my staff and I can break free!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Rincewind said: 'Pardon?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>OH, MINE IS THE FAULT FOR GIVING IN TO THESE WEAKNESSES OF WHAT FOR WANT OF A BETTER WORD I SHALL CALL THE FLESH!</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My staff, you idiot, my staff!' gibbered Albert. 'Sorry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WELL DONE, MY SERVANT, FOR CALLING ME TO MY SENSES. said Death. LET US LOSE NO TIME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My sta-!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was an implosion and an inrush of air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The candle flames stretched out like lines of fire for a moment, and then went out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Some time passed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then the bursar's voice from somewhere near the floor said, 'That was very unkind, Rincewind, losing his staff like that. Remind me to discipline you severely one of these days. Anyone got a light?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know what happened to it! I just leaned it against the pillar here and now it's —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oook.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh,' said Rincewind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Extra banana ration, that ape,' said the bursar levelly. A match flared and someone managed to get a candle alight. Wizards started to pick themselves off the floor.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, that was a lesson to all of us,' the bursar continued, brushing dust and candlewax off his robe. He looked up, expecting to see the statue of Alberto Malich back on its pedestal.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Clearly even statues have feelings,' he said. 'I myself recall, when I was but a first-year student, writing my name on his well, never mind. The point is, I propose here and now we replace the statue.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Dead silence greeted this suggestion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'With, say, an exact likeness cast in gold. Suitably embellished with jewels, as befits our great founder,' he went on brightly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And to make sure no students deface it in any way I suggest we then erect it in the deepest cellar,' he continued.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And then lock the door,' he added. Several wizards began to cheer up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And throw away the key?' said Rincewind.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And weld the door,' the bursar said. He had just remembered about The Mended Drum. He thought for a while and remembered about the physical fitness regime as well.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And then brick up the doorway,' he said. There was a round of applause.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And throw away the bricklayer!' chortled Rincewind, who felt he was getting the hang of this.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The bursar scowled at him. 'No need to get carried away,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the silence a larger than usual sand dune humped up awkwardly and then fell away to reveal Binky, blowing the sand out of his nostrils and shaking his mane.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort opened his eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There should be a word for that brief period just after waking when the mind is full of warm pink nothing. You lie there entirely empty of thought, except for a growing suspicion that heading towards you, like a sockful of damp sand in a nocturnal alleyway, are all the recollections you'd really rather do without, and which amount to the fact that the only mitigating factor in your horrible future is the certainty that it will be quite short.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sat up and put his hands on top of his head to stop it unscrewing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The sand beside him heaved and Ysabell pushed herself into a sitting position. Her hair was full of sand and her face was grimy with pyramid dust. Some of her hair had frizzled at the tips. She stared listlessly at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Did you hit me?' he said, gently testing his jaw.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked at the sky, as though it could remind him about things. He had to be somewhere, soon, he recalled. Then he remembered something else.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Thank you,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Any time, I assure you.' Ysabell made it to her feet and tried to brush the dirt and cobwebs off her dress.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are we going to rescue this princess of yours?' she said diffidently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort's own personal, internal reality caught up with him. He shot to his feet with a strangled cry, watched blue fireworks explode in front of his eyes, and collapsed again. Ysabell caught him under the shoulders and hauled him back on his feet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Let's go down to the river,' she said. 'I think we could all do with a drink.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What happened to me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She shrugged as best she could while supporting his weight.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Someone used the Rite of AshkEnte. Father hates it, he says they always summon him at inconvenient moments. The part of you that was Death went and you stayed behind. I think. At least you've got your own voice back.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What time is it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What time did you say the priests close up the pyramid?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort squinted through streaming eyes back towards the tomb of the king. Sure enough, torchlit fingers were working on the door. Soon, according to the legend, the guardians would come to life and begin their endless patrol.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He <em class="calibre9">knew</em> they would. He remembered the knowledge. He remembered his mind feeling as cold as ice and limitless as the night sky. He remembered being summoned into reluctant existence at the moment the first creature lived, in the certain knowledge that he would outlive life until the last being in the universe passed to its reward, when it would then be his job, figuratively speaking, to put the chairs on the tables and turn aU the lights off.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He remembered the loneliness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't leave me,' he said urgently.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm here,' she said. 'For as long as you need me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's midnight,' he said dully, sinking down by the Tsort and lowering his aching head to the water. Beside him there was a noise like a bath emptying as Binky also took a drink.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Does that mean we're too late?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'm sorry. I wish there was something I could do.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There isn't.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'At least you kept your promise to Albert.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes,' said Mort, bitterly. 'At least I did that.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Nearly all the way from one side of the Disc to the other. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There should be a word for the microscopic spark of hope that you dare not entertain in case the mere act of acknowledging it will cause it to vanish, like trying to look at a photon. You can only sidle up to it, looking past it, <em class="calibre9">walking</em> past it, waiting for it to get big enough to face the world.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He raised his dripping head and looked towards the sunset horizon, trying to remember the big model of the Disc in Death's study without actually letting the universe know what he was entertaining.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>At times like this it can seem that eventuality is so finely balanced that merely thinking too loud can spoil everything.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He orientated himself by the thin streamers of Hublight dancing against the stars, and made an inspired guess that Sto Lat was . . . over there. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Midnight,' he said aloud.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Gone midnight now,' said Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort stood up, trying not to let the delight radiate out from him like a beacon, and grabbed Binky's harness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Come on,' he said. 'We haven't got much time.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you talking about?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort reached down to swing her up behind him. It was a nice idea, but merely meant that he nearly pulled himself out of the saddle. She pushed him back gently and climbed up by herself. Binky skittered sideways, sensing Mort's feverish excitement, and snorted and pawed at the sand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I said, what are you talking about?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned the horse to face the distant glow of the sunset.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The speed of night,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell poked his head over the palace battlements and groaned. The interface was only a street away, clearly visible in the octarine, and he didn't have to imagine the sizzling. He could hear it — a nasty, saw-toothed buzz as random particles of possibility hit the interface and gave up their energy as noise. As it ground its way up the street the pearly wall swallowed the bunting, the torches and the waiting crowds, leaving only dark streets. Somewhere out there, Cutwell thought, I'm fast asleep in my bed and none of this has happened. Lucky me.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He ducked down, skidded down the ladder to the cobbles and legged it back to the main hall with the skirts of his robe flapping around his ankles. He slipped in through the small postern in the great door and ordered the guards to lock it, then grabbed his skirts again and pounded along a side passage so that the guests wouldn't notice him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The hall was lit with thousands of candles and crowded with Sto Plain dignitaries, nearly all of them slightly unsure why they were there. And, of course, there was the elephant.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was the elephant that had convinced Cutwell that he had gone off the rails of sanity, but it seemed like a good idea a few hours ago, when his exasperation at the High Priest's poor eyesight had run into the recollection that a lumber mill on the edge of town possessed said beast for the purposes of heavy haulage. It was elderly, arthritic and had an uncertain temper, but it had one important advantage as a sacrificial victim. The High Priest should be able to see it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Half a dozen guards were gingerly trying to restrain the creature, in whose slow brain the realization had dawned that it should be in its familiar stable, with plenty of hay and water and time to dream of the hot days on the great khaki plains of Klatch. It was getting restless.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It will shortly become apparent that another reason for its growing friskiness is the fact that, in the pre-ceremony confusion, its trunk found the ceremonial chalice containing a gallon of strong wine and drained the lot. Strange hot ideas are beginning to bubble in front of its crusted eyes, of uprooted baobabs, mating fights with other bulls, glorious stampedes through native villages and other half-remembered pleasures. Soon it will start to see pink people.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Fortunately this was unknown to Cutwell, who caught the eye of the High Priest's assistant — a forward-looking young man who had the foresight to provide himself with a long rubber apron and waders — and signalled that the ceremony should begin.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He darted back into the priest's robing room and struggled into the special ceremonial robe the palace seamstress had made up for him, digging deep into her workbasket for scraps of lace, equins and gold thread to produce a garment of uch dazzling tastelessness that even the ArchChancellor of Unseen University wouldn't have been ashamed to wear it. Cutwell allowed himself five seconds to admire himself in the mirror before ramming the pointy hat on his head and running back to the door, stopping just in time to emerge at a sedate pace as befitted a person of substance.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He reached the High Priest as Keli started her advance up the central aisle, flanked by maidservants who fussed around her like tugs around a liner.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Despite the drawbacks of the hereditary dress, Cutwell thought she looked beautiful. There was something about her that made him —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He gritted his teeth and tried to concentrate on the security arrangements. He had put guards at various vantage points in the hall in case the Duke of Sto Helit tried any last-minute rearrangement of the royal succession, and reminded himself to keep a special eye on the duke himself, who was sitting in the front row of seats with a strange quiet smile on his face. The duke caught Cutwell's eye, and the wizard hastily looked away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The High Priest held up his hands for silence. Cutwell sidled towards him as the old man turned towards the Hub and in a cracked voice began the invocation to the gods.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell let his eyes slip back towards the duke.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hear me, mm, O gods —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Was Sto Helit looking up into the bat-haunted darkness of the rafters?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— hear me, O Blind Io of the Hundred Eyes; hear me, O Great Offler of the Bird-Haunted Mouth: hear me, O Merciful Fate; hear me, O Cold, mm. Destiny; hear me, O Seven-handed Sek; hear me, O Hoki of the Woods; hear me, O —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>With dull horror Cutwell realized that the daft old fool, against all instruction, was going to mention the whole lot. There were more than nine hundred known gods on the Disc, and research theologians were discovering more every year. It could take hours. The congregation was already beginning to shuffle its feet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli was standing in front of the altar with a look of fury on her face. Cutwell nudged the High Priest in the ribs, which had no noticeable effect, and then waggled his eyebrows ferociously at the young acolyte.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Stop him!' he hissed. 'We haven't got time!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The gods would be displeased —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not as displeased as me, and I'm <em class="calibre9">here</em>.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The acolyte looked at Cutwell's expression for a moment and decided that he'd better explain to the gods later. He tapped the High Priest on the shoulder and whispered something in his ear.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'— O Steikhegel, god of, mm, isolated cow byres; hear me, O — hello? What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur, murmur.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>This is, mm, very irregular. Very well, we shall go straight to the, mm, Recitation of the Lineage.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur, murmur.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The High Priest scowled at Cutwell, or at least where he believed Cutwell to be.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, all right. Mm, prepare the incense and fragrances for the Shriving of the Fourfold-Path.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur, murmur.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The High Priest's face darkened.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I suppose, mm, a short prayer, mm, is totally out of the question?' he said acidly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If some people don't get a move on,' said Keli demurely, 'there is going to be trouble.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know, I'm sure,' said the High Priest. 'People might as well not bother with a religious, mm, ceremony at all. Fetch the bloody elephant, then.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The acolyte gave Cutwell a frantic look and waved at the guards. As they urged their gently-swaying charge forward with shouts and pointed sticks the young priest sidled towards Cutwell and pushed something into his hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked down. It was a waterproof hat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is this necessary?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's very devout,' said the acolyte. 'We may need a snorkel.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The elephant reached the altar and was forced, without too much difficulty, to kneel. It hiccupped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, where is it, then?' snapped the High Priest. 'Let's get this, mm, <em class="calibre9">farce</em> over with!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur went the acolyte. The High Priest listened, nodded gravely, picked up his white-handled sacrificial knife and raised it double-handed over his head. The whole hall watched, holding its breath. Then he lowered it again.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'<em class="calibre9">Where</em> in front of me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Murmur.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I certainly don't need your help, my lad! I've been sacrificing man and boy — and, mm, women and animals — for seventy years, and when I can't use the, mm, knife you can put me to bed with a shovel!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And he brought the blade down in a wild sweep which, by sheer luck, gave the elephant a mild flesh wound on the trunk.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The creature awoke from its pleasant reflective stupor and squealed. The acolyte turned in horror to look at two tiny bloodshot eyes squinting down the length of an enraged trunk, and cleared the altar in one standing jump.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The elephant was enraged. Vague confusing recollections flooded its aching head, of fires and shouts and men with nets and cages and spears and too many years hauling heavy tree trunks. It brought its trunk down across the altar stone and somewhat to its own surprise smashed it in two, levered the two parts into the air with its tusks, tried unsuccessfully to uproot a stone pillar and then, feeling the sudden need for a breath of fresh air, started to charge arthritically down the length of the hall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It hit the door at a dead run, its blood loud with the call of the herd and fizzing with alcohol, and took it off at the hinges. Still wearing the frame on its shoulders it careened across the courtyard, smashed the outer gates, burped, thundered through the sleeping city and was still slowly accelerating when it sniffed the distant dark continent of Klatch on the night breeze and, tail raised, followed the ancient call of home.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Back in the hall there was dust and shouts and confusion. Cutwell pushed his hat out of his eyes and got to his hands and knees.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thank you,' said Keli, who had been lying underneath him. 'And why did you jump on top of me?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'My first instinct was to protect you, your Majesty.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, instinct it may have been, but —' She started to say that maybe the elephant would have weighed less, but the sight of his big, serious and rather flushed face stopped her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We will talk about this later,' she said, sitting up and brushing the dust off her. 'In the meantime, I think we will dispense with the sacrifice. I'm not your Majesty yet, just your Highness, and now if someone will fetch the crown —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was the snick of a safety catch behind them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'The wizard will put his hands where I can see them,' said the duke.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell stood up slowly, and turned around. The duke was backed by half a dozen large serious men, the type of men whose only function in life is to loom behind people like the duke. They had a dozen large serious crossbows, whose main purpose was to appear to be on the point of going off.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The princess sprang to her feet and launched herself at her uncle, but Cutwell grabbed her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No,' he said, quietly. "This isn't the kind of man who ties you up in a cellar with just enough time for the mice to eat your ropes before the flood-waters rise. This is the kind of man who just kills you here and now.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The duke bowed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I think it can be truly said that the gods have spoken,' he said. 'Clearly the princess was tragically crushed by the rogue elephant. The people will be upset. I will personally decree a week of mourning.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can't do that, all the guests have seen — !' the princess began, nearly in tears.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell shook his head. He could see the guards moving through the crowds of bewildered guests.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They haven't,' he said. 'You'll be amazed at what they haven't seen. Especially when they learn that being tragically crushed to death by rogue elephants can be catching. You can even die of it in bed.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The duke laughed pleasantly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You really are quite intelligent for a wizard,' he said. 'Now, I am merely proposing banishment —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You won't get away with this,' said Cutwell. He thought for a bit, and added, 'Well, you will probably get away with it, but you'll feel bad about it on your deathbed and you'll wish —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stopped talking. His jaw dropped.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The duke half turned to follow his gaze.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, wizard? What have you seen?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You won't get away with it,' said Cutwell hysterically. 'You won't even be here. This is going to have never happened, do you realize?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Watch his hands,' said the duke. 'If he even moves his fingers, shoot them.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He looked around again, puzzled. The wizard had sounded genuine. Of course, it was said wizards could see things that weren't there...</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It doesn't even matter if you kill me,' Cutwell babbled, 'because tomorrow I'll wake up in my own bed and this won't have happened anyway. It's come through the wall!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Night rolled onwards across the Disc. It was always there, of course, lurking in shadows and holes and cellars, but as the slow light of day drifted after the sun the pools and lakes of night spread out, met and merged. Light on the Discworld moves slowly because of the vast magical field.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Light on the Discworld isn't like light elsewhere. It's grown up a bit, it's been around, it doesn't feel the need to rush everywhere. It knows that however fast it goes darkness always gets there first, so it takes it easy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Midnight glided across the landscape like a velvet bat. And faster than midnight, a tiny spark against the dark world of the Disc, Binky pounded after it. Flames roared back from his hooves. Muscles moved under his glistening skin like snakes in oil.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>They moved in silence. Ysabell took one arm from around Mort's waist and watched sparks glitter around her fingers in all eight colours of the rainbow. Little crackling serpents of light flowed down her arm and flashed off the tips of her hair.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort took the horse down lower, leaving a boiling wake of cloud that extended for miles behind them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Now I know I'm going mad,' he muttered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Why?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I just saw an elephant down there. Whoa, boy. Look, you can see Sto Lat up ahead.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell peered over his shoulder at the distant gleam of light.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How long have we got?' she said nervously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know. A few minutes, perhaps.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, I hadn't asked you before —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are you going to <em class="calibre9">do</em> when we get there?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't know,' he said. 'I was sort of hoping something would suggest itself at the time.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Has it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. But it isn't time yet. Albert's spell may help. And I—'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The dome of reality squatted over the palace like a collapsing jellyfish. Mort's voice trailed into horrified silence. Then Ysabell said, 'Well, I think it's <em class="calibre9">nearly</em> time. What are we going to do?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hold tight!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Binky glided through the smashed gates of the outer courtyard, slid across the cobbles in a trail of sparks and leapt through the ravaged doorway of the hall. The pearly wall of the interface loomed up and passed like a shock of cold spray.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort had a confused vision of Keli and Cutwell and a group of large men diving for their lives. He recognized the features of the duke and drew his sword, vaulting from the saddle as soon as the steaming horse skidded to a halt.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Don't you lay a finger on her!' he screamed. 'I'll have your head off!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'This is certainly most impressive,' said the duke, drawing his own sword. 'And also very foolish. I —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stopped. His eyes glazed over. He toppled forward. Cutwell put down the big silver candlestick he'd wielded and gave Mort an apologetic smile.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned towards the guards, the blue flame of Death's sword humming through the air.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Anyone else want some?' he snarled. They backed away, and then turned and ran. As they passed through the interface they vanished. There were no guests outside there, either. In the real reality the hall was dark and empty.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The four of them were left in a hemisphere that was rapidly growing smaller.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sidled over to Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Any ideas?' he said. 'I've got a magic spell here somewhere —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Forget it. If I try any magic in here now it'll blow our heads off. This little reality is too small to contain it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sagged against the remains of the altar. He felt empty, drained. For a moment he watched the sizzling wall of the interface drifting nearer. He'd survive it, he hoped, and so would Ysabell. Cutwell wouldn't, but a Cutwell would. Only Keli —</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Am I going to be crowned or not?' she said icily. 'I've got to die a queen! It'd be terrible to be dead <em class="calibre9">and</em> common!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort gave her an unfocused look, trying to remember what on earth she was talking about. Ysabell fished around in the wreckage behind the altar, and came up with a rather battered gold circlet set with small diamonds.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is this it?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That's the crown,' said Keli, nearly in tears. 'But there's no priest or anything.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort sighed deeply.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Cutwell, if this is our own reality we can rearrange it the way we want, can't we?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What had you in mind?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're now a priest. Name your own god.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell curtsied, and took the crown from Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're all making fun of me!' snapped Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sorry,' said Mort, wearily. 'It's been rather a long day.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope I can do this right,' said Cutwell solemnly. 'I've never crowned anyone before.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I've never been crowned before!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good,' said Cutwell soothingly. 'We can learn together.' He started to mutter some impressive words in a strange tongue. It was in fact a simple spell for ridding the clothing of fleas, but he thought, what the hell. And then he thought, gosh, in this reality I'm the most powerful wizard there ever was, that'd be something to tell my grandch . . . He gritted his teeth. There'd be some rules changed in this reality, that was for sure.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell sat down beside Mort and slipped her hand in his.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well?' she said quietly. This is the time. Has anything suggested itself?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The interface was more than halfway down the hall, slowing slightly as it relentlessly ground down the pressure of the intruding reality.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Something wet and warm blew in Mort's ear. He reached up and touched Binky's muzzle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Dear old horse,' he said. 'And I'm right out of sugar lumps. You'll have to find your way home by yourself —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>His hand stopped in mid-pat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We can <em class="calibre9">all</em> go home,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think father would like that very much,' said Ysabell, but Mort ignored her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Cutwell!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We're leaving. Are you coming? You'll still exist when the interface closes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Part of me will,' said the wizard.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'That's what I meant,' said Mort, swinging himself up on to Binky's back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But speaking as the part that won't, I'd like to join you,' said Cutwell quickly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I intend to stay here to die in my own kingdom,' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What you intend doesn't signify,' said Mort. 'I've come all the way across the Disc to rescue you, d'you see, and you're going to be rescued.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'But I'm the queen!' said Keli. Uncertainty welled up in her eyes, and she spun round to Cutwell, who lowered his candle-stick guiltily. 'I heard you say the words! I am queen, aren't I?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, yes,' said Cutwell instantly; and then, because a wizard's word is supposed to be harder than cast iron, added virtuously, 'And totally free from infestation, too.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Cutwell!' snapped Mort. The wizard nodded, caught Keli around the waist and bodily hoisted her on to Binky's back. Hoisting his skirts around his waist he clambered up behind Mort and reached down and swung Ysabell up behind him. The horse jigged across the floor, complaining about the overloading, but Mort turned him towards the broken doorway and urged him forward.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The interface followed them as they clattered down the hall and into the courtyard, rising slowly. Its pearly fog was only yards away, tightening by inches.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Excuse me,' said Cutwell to Ysabell, raising his hat. 'Igneous Cutwell, Wizard Ist Grade (UU), former Royal Recognizer and soon to be beheaded probably. Would you happen to know where we are going?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>To my father's country,' shouted Ysabell, above the wind of their passage.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Have I ever met him?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I don't think so. You'd have remembered.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The top of the palace wall scraped Binky's hooves as, muscles straining, he sought for more height. Cutwell leaned backward again, holding on to his hat.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Who is this gentleman of which we speak?' he yelled.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Death,' said Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Not —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh.' Cutwell peered down at the distant rooftops, and gave her a lopsided smile. 'Would it save time if I just jumped off now?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's quite nice if you get to know him,' said Ysabell defensively.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is he? Do you think we'll get the chance?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Hold on!' said Mort. 'We should be going across just about —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A hole full of blackness rushed out of the sky and caught them.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The interface bobbed uncertainly, empty as a pauper's pocket, and carried on shrinking.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The front door opened. Ysabell poked her head out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'There's no one at home,' she said. 'You'd better come in.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The other three filed into the hallway. Cutwell conscientiously wiped his feet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a bit small,' said Keli, critically.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's a lot bigger inside,' said Mort, and turned to Ysabell. 'Have you looked everywhere?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I can't even find Albert,' she said. 'I can't remember him ever not being here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She coughed, remembering her duties as hostess.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Would anyone like a drink?' she said. Keli ignored her.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I was expecting a castle at least,' she said. 'Big and black, with great dark towers. Not an umbrella stand.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It has got a scythe in it,' Cutwell pointed out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Let's all go into the study and sit down and I'm sure we'll all feel better,' said Ysabell hurriedly, and pushed open the black baize door.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell and Keli stepped through, bickering. Ysabell took Mort's arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What are we going to do now?' she said. 'Father will be very angry if he finds them here.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'll think of something,' said Mort. 'I'll rewrite the autobiographies or something.' He smiled weakly. 'Don't worry. I'll think of something.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The door slammed behind him. Mort turned to look into Albert's grinning face.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The big leather armchair behind the desk revolved slowly. Death looked at Mort over steepled fingers. When he was quite certain he had their full, horrified attention, he said:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU HAD BETTER START NOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stood up, appearing to grow larger as the room darkened.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DON'T BOTHER TO APOLOGISE, he added. Keli buried her head in Cutwell's ample chest.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I AM <em class="calibre9">BACK</em>. AND I AM <em class="calibre9">ANGRY</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master, I —' Mort began.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>SHUT UP, said Death. He beckoned Keli with a calcareous forefinger. She turned to look at him, her body not daring to disobey.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death reached out and touched her chin. Mort's hand went to his sword.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IS THIS THE FACE THAT LAUNCHED A THOUSAND SHIPS, AND BURNED THE TOPLESS TOWERS OF PSEUDOPOLIS? wondered Death. Keli stared hypnotised at the red pinpoints miles deep in those dark sockets.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Er, excuse me,' said Cutwell, holding his hat respectfully, Mexican fashion.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WELL? said Death, distracted.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It isn't, sir. You must be thinking about another face.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHAT IS YOUR NAME?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Cutwell, sir. I'm a wizard, sir.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I'M A WIZARD, SIR, Death sneered. BE SILENT, WIZARD.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Sir.' Cutwell stepped back.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death turned to Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>DAUGHTER, EXPLAIN YOURSELF. WHY DID YOU AID THIS FOOL?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell curtsied nervously.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I — love him, father. I think.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You do?' said Mort, astonished. 'You never said!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There didn't seem to be time,' said Ysabell. 'Father, he didn't mean —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BE SILENT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell dropped her gaze. 'Yes, father.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stalked around the desk until he was standing directly in front of Mort. He stared at him for a long time.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Then in one blurred movement his hand struck Mort across the face, knocking him off his feet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I INVITE YOU INTO MY HOME, he said, I TRAIN YOU, I FEED YOU, I CLOTHE YOU, I GIVE YOU OPPORTUNITIES YOU COULD NOT DREAM OF, AND THUS YOU REPAY ME. YOU SEDUCE MY DAUGHTER FROM ME, YOU NEGLECT THE DUTY, YOU MAKE RIPPLES IN REALITY THAT WILL TAKE A CENTURY TO HEAL. YOUR ILL-TIMED ACTIONS HAVE DOOMED YOUR COMRADES TO OBLIVION. THE GODS WILL DEMAND NOTHING LESS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALL IN ALL, BOY, NOT A GOOD START TO YOUR FIRST JOB.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort struggled into a sitting position, holding his cheek. It burned coldly, like comet ice.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT SPEAKS! WHAT DOES IT SAY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You could let them go,' said Mort. They just got involved. It wasn't their fault. You could rearrange this so —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WHY SHOULD I DO THAT? THEY BELONG TO ME NOW.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I'll fight you for them,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>VERY NOBLE. MORTALS FIGHT ME ALL THE TIME. YOU ARE DISMISSED.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort got to his feet. He remembered what being Death had been like. He caught hold of the feeling, let it surface. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO, he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>AH. YOU CHALLENGE ME AS BETWEEN EQUALS, THEN?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort swallowed. But at least the way was clear now. When you step off a cliff, your life takes a very definite direction.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If necessary,' he said. 'And if I win —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IF YOU WIN, YOU WILL BE IN A POSITION TO DO WHATEVER YOU PLEASE, said Death. FOLLOW ME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He stalked past Mort and out into the hall.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The other four looked at Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you sure you know what you're doing?' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You can't beat the master,' said Albert. He sighed. 'Take it from me.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What will happen if you lose?' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I won't lose,' said Mort. 'That's the trouble.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Father wants him to win,' said Ysabell bitterly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You mean he'll let Mort win?' said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh, no, he won't <em class="calibre9">let</em> him win. He just wants him to win.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort nodded. As they followed Death's dark shape he reflected on an endless future, serving whatever mysterious purpose the Creator had in mind, living outside Time. He couldn't blame Death for wanting to quit the job. Death had said the bones were not compulsory, but perhaps that wouldn't matter. Would eternity feel like a long time, or were all lives — from a personal viewpoint — entirely the same length?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Hi, said a voice in his head. Remember me? I'm you. I got you into this.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Thanks,' he said bitterly. The others glanced at him.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>You could come through this, the voice said. You've got a big advantage. You've been him, and he's never been you.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death swept through the hall and into the Long Room, the candles obediently flicking into flame as he entered.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALBERT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FETCH THE GLASSES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Master.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell grabbed the old man's arm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're a wizard,' he hissed. 'You don't have to do what he says!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How old are you, lad?' said Albert, kindly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Twenty.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'When you're my age you'll see your choices differently.' He turned to Mort. 'Sorry.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort drew his sword, its blade almost invisible in the light from the candles. Death turned and stood facing him, a thin silhouette against a towering rack of hourglasses.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He held out his arms. The scythe appeared in them with a tiny thunderclap.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Albert came back down one of the glass-lined alleys with two hourglasses, and set them down wordlessly on a ledge on one of the pillars.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>One was several times the size of the ordinary glasses — black, thin and decorated with a complicated skull-and-bones motif.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>That wasn't the most unpleasant thing about it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort groaned inwardly. He couldn't see any sand in there.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The smaller glass beside it was quite plain and unadorned. Mort reached for it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'May I?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>BE MY GUEST.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The name Mort was engraved on the top bulb. He held it up to the light, noting without any real surprise that there was hardly any sand left. When he held it to his ear he thought he could hear, even above the ever-present roar of the millions of lifetimers around him, the sound of his own life pouring away.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He put it down very carefully.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death turned to Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>MR WIZARD, SIR, YOU WILL BE GOOD ENOUGH TO GIVE US A COUNT OF THREE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell nodded glumly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Are you sure this couldn't all be sorted out by getting around a table —' he began.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort and Death circled one another warily, their reflections flickering across the banks of hourglasses.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'One,'said Cutwell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death spun his scythe menacingly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Two.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The blades met in mid-air with a noise like a cat sliding down a pane of glass.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They both cheated!' said Keli. Ysabell nodded. 'Of course,' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort jumped back, bringing the sword round in a too-slow arc that Death easily deflected, turning the parry into a wicked low sweep that Mort avoided only by a clumsy standing jump.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Although the scythe isn't preeminent among weapons of war, anyone who has been on the wrong end of, say, a peasants' revolt will know that in skilled hands it is fearsome. Once its owner gets it weaving and spinning no one — including the wielder — is quite certain where the blade is now and where it will be next.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death advanced, grinning. Mort ducked a cut at head height and dived sideways, hearing a tinkle behind him as the tip of the scythe caught a glass on the nearest shelf. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... in a dark alley in Morpork a night soil entrepreneur clutched at his chest and pitched forward over his cart. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort rolled and came up swinging the sword double-handed over his head, feeling a twang of dark exhilaration as Death darted backwards across the checkered tiles. The wild swing cut through a shelf; one after another its burden of glasses started to slide towards the floor. Mort was dimly aware of Ysabell scurrying past him to catch them one by one. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... across the Disc four people miraculously escaped death by falling. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... and then he ran forward, pressing home his advantage. Death's hands moved in a blur as he blocked every chop and thrust, and then changed grip on the scythe and brought the blade swinging up in an arc that Mort sidestepped awkwardly, nicking the frame of an hourglass with the hilt of his sword and sending it flying across the room. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... in the Ramtop mountains a tharga-herder, searching by lamplight in the high meadows for a lost cow, missed his footing and plunged over a thousand foot drop. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... Gutwell dived forward and caught the tumbling glass in one desperately outstretched hand, hit the floor and slid along on his stomach. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... a gnarled sycamore mysteriously loomed under the screaming herder and broke his fall, removing his major problems — death, the judgement of the gods, the uncertainty of Paradise and so on — and replacing them with the comparatively simple one of climbing back up about one hundred feet of sheer, icy cliff in pitch darkness.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>There was a pause as the combatants backed away from each other and circled again, looking for an opening.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Surely there's something we can do?' said Keli.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort will lose either way,' said Ysabell, shaking her head. Cutwell shook the silver candlestick out of his baggy sleeve and tossed it thoughtfully from hand to hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death hefted the scythe threateningly, incidentally smashing an hourglass by his shoulder. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... in Bes Pelargic the Emperor's chief torturer slumped backwards into his own acid pit. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... and took another swing which Mort dodged by sheer luck. But only just. He could feel the hot ache in his muscles and the numbing greyness of fatigue poisons in his brain, two disadvantages that Death did not have to consider.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death noticed.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YIELD, he said. I MAY BE MERCIFUL.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>To illustrate the point he made a roundarm slash that Mort caught, clumsily, on the edge of his sword. The scythe blade bounced up, splintered a glass into a thousand shards. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>... the Duke of Sto Helit clutched at his heart, felt the icy stab of pain, screamed soundlessly and tumbled from his horse. . . .</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort backed away until he felt the roughness of a stone pillar on his neck. Death's glass with its dauntingly empty bulbs was a few inches from his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death himself wasn't paying much attention. He was looking down thoughtfully at the jagged remains of the Duke's life.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort yelled and swung his sword up, to the faint cheers of the crowd that had been waiting for him to do this for some time. Even Albert clapped his wrinkled hands.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>But instead of. the tinkle of glass that Mort had expected there was — nothing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He turned and tried again. The blade passed right through the glass without breaking it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The change in the texture of the air made him bring the sword around and back in time to deflect a vicious downward sweep. Death sprang away in time to dodge Mort's counter thrust, which was slow and weak.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THUS IT ENDS, BOY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' said Mort. He looked up.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort,' he repeated, and brought the sword up in a stroke that cut the scythe's handle in two. Anger bubbled up inside him. If he was going to die, then at least he'd die with the right name.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Mort, you bastard!' he screamed, and propelled himself straight towards the grinning skull with the sword whirring in a complicated dance of blue light. Death staggered backwards, laughing, crouching under the rain of furious strokes that sliced the scythe handle into more pieces.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort circled him, chopping and thrusting and dully aware, even through the red mists of fury, that Death was following his every move, holding the orphaned scytheblade like a sword. There was no opening, and the motor of his anger wouldn't last. You'll never beat him, he told himself. The best we can do is hold him off for a while. And losing is probably better than winning. Who needs eternity, anyway?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Through the curtain of his fatigue he saw Death unfold the length of his bones and bring his blade round in a slow, leisurely arc as though it was moving through treacle.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Father!' screamed Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death turned his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Perhaps Mort's mind welcomed the prospect of the life to come but his body, which maybe felt it had most to lose in the deal, objected. It brought his sword arm up in one unstoppable stroke that flicked Death's blade from his hand, and then pinned him against the nearest pillar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>In the sudden hush Mort realized he could no longer hear an intrusive little noise that had been just at his threshold of hearing for the last ten minutes. His eyes darted sideways.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The last of his sand was running out.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>STRIKE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort raised the sword, and looked into the twin blue fires.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He lowered the sword.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death's foot lashed out at groin height with a speed that even made Cutwell wince.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort silently curled into a ball and rolled across the floor. Through his tears he saw Death advancing, scythe-blade in one hand and Mort's own hourglass in the other. He saw Keli and Ysabell swept disdainfully aside as they made a grab for the robe. He saw Cutwell elbowed in the ribs, his candlestick clattering across the tiles.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death stood over him. The tip of the blade hovered in front of Mort's eyes for a moment, and then swept upwards.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You're right. There's no justice. There's just you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death hesitated, and then slowly lowered the blade. He turned and looked down into Ysabell's face. She was shaking with anger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOUR MEANING?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She glowered up at Death's face and then her hand swung back and swung around and swung forward and connected with a sound like a dice box.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was nothing like as loud as the silence that followed it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Keli shut her eyes. Cutwell turned away and put his arms over his head.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death raised a hand to his skull, very slowly.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell's chest rose and fell in a manner that should have made Cutwell give up magic for life.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Finally, in a voice even more hollow than usual, Death said: WHY?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You said that to tinker with the fate of one individual could destroy the whole world,' said Ysabell.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You meddled with his. And mine.' She pointed a trembling finger at the splinters of glass on the floor. 'And those, too.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>WELL?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What will the gods demand for <em class="calibre9">that</em>?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FROM ME?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death looked surprised. THE GODS CAN DEMAND NOTHING OF <em class="calibre9">ME</em>. EVEN GODS ANSWER TO ME, EVENTUALLY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Doesn't seem very fair, does it? Don't the gods bother about justice and mercy?' snapped Ysabell. Without anyone quite noticing she had picked up the sword.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death grinned. I APPLAUD YOUR EFFORTS, he said, BUT THEY AVAIL YOU NAUGHT. STAND ASIDE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU MUST BE AWARE THAT EVEN LOVE IS NO DEFENCE AGAINST ME. I AM SORRY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell raised the sword. '<em class="calibre9">You 're</em> sorry?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>STAND ASIDE, I SAY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'No. You're just being vindictive. It's not fair!'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death bowed his skull for a moment, then looked up with his eyes blazing.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YOU WILL DO AS YOU ABE TOLD.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I will not.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU'RE MAKING THIS VERY DIFFICULT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death's fingers drummed impatiently on the scythe-blade, like a mouse tapdancing on a tin. He seemed to be thinking. He looked at Ysabell standing over Mort, and then turned and looked at the others crouching against a shelf.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>NO, he said eventually. NO. I CANNOT BE BIDDEN. I CANNOT BE FORCED. I WILL DO ONLY THAT WHICH I KNOW TO BE RIGHT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He waved a hand, and the sword whirred out of Ysabell's grasp. He made another complicated gesture and the girl herself was picked up and pressed gently but firmly against the nearest pillar.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort saw the dark reaper advance on him again, blade swinging back for the final stroke. He stood over the boy.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU DON'T KNOW HOW SORRY THIS MAKES ME, he aid.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort pulled himself on to his elbows.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I might,' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death gave him a surprised look for several seconds, and then started to laugh. The sound bounced eerily around the room, ringing off the shelves as Death, still laughing like an earthquake in a graveyard, held Mort's own glass in front of its owner's eyes.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort tried to focus. He saw the last grain of sand skid down the glossy surface, teeter on the edge and then drop, tumbling in slow motion, towards the bottom. Candlelight flickered off its tiny silica facets as it spun gently downward. It landed soundlessly, throwing up a tiny crater.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The light in Death's eyes flared until it filled Mort's vision and the sound of his laughter rattled the universe.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>And then Death turned the hourglass over.</span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Once again the great hall of Sto Lat was brilliant with candlelight and loud with music.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>As the guests flocked down the steps and descended on the cold buffet the Master of Ceremonies was in non-stop voice, introducing those who, by reason of importance or simple absent-mindedness, had turned up late. As for example:</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Royal Recognizer, Master of the Queen's Bedchamber, His Ipississumussness Igneous Cutwell, Wizard Ist Grade (UU).'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Cutwell advanced on the regal couple, grinning, a large cigar in one hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'May I kiss the bride?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'If it's allowed for wizards,' said Ysabell, offering a cheek.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We thought the fireworks were marvellous,' said Mort. 'And I expect they'll soon be able to rebuild the outer wall. No doubt you'll be able to find your way to the food.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'He's looking a lot better these days,' said Ysabell behind her fixed grin, as Cutwell disappeared into the throng.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Certainly there's a lot to be said for being the only person who doesn't bother to obey the queen,' said Mort, exchanging nods with a passing nobleman.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'They say he's the real power behind the throne,' said Ysabell. 'An eminence something.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Eminence grease,' said Mort absently. 'Notice how he doesn't do any magic these days?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Shut up here she comes.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Her Supreme Majesty, Queen Kelirehenna I, Lord of Sto Lat, Protector of the Eight Protectorates and Empress of the Long Thin Debated Piece Hubwards of Sto Kerrig.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell bobbed. Mort bowed. Keli beamed at both of them. They couldn't help noticing that she had come under some influence that inclined her towards clothes that at least roughly followed her shape, and away from hairstyles that looked like the offspring of a pineapple and a candyfloss.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>She pecked Ysabell on the cheek and then stepped back and looked Mort up and down.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'How's Sto Helit?' she said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Fine, fine,' said Mort. 'We'll have to do something about the cellars, though. Your late uncle had some unusual — hobbies, and. . . .'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'She means you,' whispered Ysabell. 'That's your official name.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I preferred Mort,' said Mort.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Such an interesting coat of arms, too,' said the queen. 'Crossed scythes on an hourglass rampant against a sable field. It gave the Royal College quite a headache.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's not that I mind being a duke,' said Mort. 'Its being married to a duchess that comes as a shock.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'You'll get used to it.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I hope not.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Good. And now, Ysabell,' said Keli, setting her jaw, 'if you are to move in royal circles there are some people you simply must meet.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Ysabell gave Mort a despairing look as she was swept away into the crowd, and was soon lost to view.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort ran a finger around the inside of his collar, looked both ways, and then darted into a fern-shaded corner near the end of the buffet where he could have a quiet moment to himself.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Behind him the Master of Ceremonies cleared his throat. His eyes took on a distant, glazed look.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>The Stealer of Souls,' he said in the faraway voice of one whose ears aren't hearing what his mouth is saying, 'Defeater of Empires, Swallower of Oceans, Thief of Years, The Ultimate Reality, Harvester of Mankind, the —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ALL RIGHT, ALL RIGHT. I CAN SEE MYSELF IN.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort paused with a cold turkey leg halfway to his mouth. He didn't turn around. He didn't need to. There was no mistaking that voice, felt rather than heard, or the way in which the air chilled and darkened. The chatter and music of the wedding reception slowed and faded.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We didn't think you'd come,' he said to a potted fern.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TO MY OWN DAUGHTER'S WEDDING? ANYWAY, IT WAS THE FIRST TIME I'VE EVER HAD AN INVITATION TO ANYTHING. IT HAD GOLD EDGES AND RSVP AND EVERYTHING.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Yes, but when you weren't at the service —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I THOUGHT PERHAPS IT WOULD NOT BE ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Well, yes, I suppose so —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>TO BE FRANK, I THOUGHT YOU WERE GOING TO MARRY THE PRINCESS.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort blushed. 'We talked about it,' he said. 'Then we thought, just because you happen to rescue a princess, you shouldn't rush into things.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>VERY WISE. TOO MANY YOUNG WOMEN LEAP INTO THE ARMS OF THE FIRST YOUNG MAN TO WAKE THEM AFTER A HUNDRED YEARS' SLEEP, FOR EXAMPLE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'And, well, we thought that all in all, well, once I really got to know Ysabell, well.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES, YES, I AM SURE. AN EXCELLENT DECISION. HOWEVER, I HAVE DECIDED NOT TO INTEREST MYSELF IN HUMAN AFFAIRS ANY FURTHER.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Really?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>EXCEPT OFFICIALLY, OF COURSE. IT WAS CLOUDING MY JUDGEMENT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>A skeletal hand appeared on the edge of Mort's vision and skilfully speared a stuffed egg. Mort spun around.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What happened?' he said. 'I've got to know! One minute we were in the Long Room and the next we were in a field outside the city, and we were really us! I mean, reality had been altered to fit us in! Who did it?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAD A WORD WITH THE GODS. Death looked uncomfortable.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Oh. You did, did you?' said Mort. Death avoided his gaze.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I shouldn't think they were very pleased.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE GODS ARE JUST. THEY ARE ALSO SENTIMENTALISTS. I HAVE NEVER BEEN ABLE TO MASTER IT, MYSELF. BUT YOU AREN'T FREE YET. YOU MUST SEE TO IT THAT HISTORY TAKES PLACE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know,' said Mort. 'Uniting the kingdoms and everything.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YOU MIGHT END UP WISHING YOU'D STAYED WITH ME.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I certainly learned a lot,' Mort admitted. He put his hand up to his face and absent-mindedly stroked the four thin white scars across his cheek. 'But I don't think I was cut out for that sort of work. Look, I'm really sorry —'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>I HAVE A PRESENT FOR YOU.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death put down his plate of hors d'oeuvres and fumbled in the mysterious recesses of his robe. When his skeletal hand emerged it was holding a little globe between thumb and forefinger.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>It was about three inches across. It could have been the largest pearl in the world, except that the surface was a moving swirl of complicated silver shapes, forever on the point of resolving themselves into something recognizable but always managing to avoid it.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>When Death dropped it into Mort's outstretched palm it felt surprisingly heavy and slightly warm.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>FOR YOU AND YOUR LADY. A WEDDING PRESENT. A DOWRY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'It's beautiful! We thought the silver toast rack was from you.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THAT WAS ALBERT. I'M AFRAID HE DOESN'T HAVE MUCH IMAGINATION.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort turned the globe over and over in his hands. The shapes boiling inside it seemed to respond to his touch, sending little streamers of light arching across the surface towards his fingers.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'Is it a pearl?' he said.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>YES. WHEN SOMETHING IRRITATES AN OYSTER AND CAN'T BE REMOVED, THE POOR THING COATS IT WITH MUCUS AND TURNS IT INTO A PEARL. THIS IS A PEARL OF A DIFFERENT COLOUR. A PEARL OF REALITY. ALL THAT SHINY STUFF IS CONGEALED ACTUALITY. YOU OUGHT TO RECOGNIZE IT — YOU CREATED IT, AFTER ALL.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort tossed it gently from hand to hand.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'We will put it with the castle jewels,' he said. 'We haven't got that many.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>ONE DAY IT WILL BE THE SEED OF A NEW UNIVERSE.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort fumbled the catch, but reached down with lightning reflexes and caught it before it hit the flagstones.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'What?'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THE PRESSURE OF <em class="calibre9">THIS</em> REALITY KEEPS IT COMPRESSED. THERE MAY COME A TIME WHEN THE UNIVERSE ENDS AND REALITY DIES, AND THEN THIS ONE WILL EXPLODE AND . . . WHO KNOWS? KEEP IT SAFE. IT'S A FUTURE AS WELL AS A PRESENT.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Death put his skull on one side. IT'S A SMALL THING, he added. You <em class="calibre9">COULD</em> HAVE HAD ETERNITY.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>'I know,' said Mort. 'I've been very lucky.'</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He put it very carefully on the buffet table, between the quails' eggs and the sausage rolls.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>THERE WAS ANOTHER THING, said Death. He reached under his robe again and pulled out an oblong shape inexpertly wrapped and tied with string.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>IT'S FOR YOU, he said, PERSONALLY. YOU NEVER SHOWED ANY INTEREST IN IT BEFORE. DID YOU THINK IT DIDN'T EXIST?</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>Mort unwrapped the packet and realized he was holding a small leather-bound book. On the spine was blocked, in shiny gold leaf, the one word: <em class="calibre9">Mort</em>.</span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>He leafed backwards through the unfilled pages until he found the little trail of ink, winding patiently down the page, and read: </span>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <span>
          <em class="calibre9">"Mort shut the book with a little snap that sounded, in the silence, like the crack of creation, and smiled uneasily.</em>
        </span>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>There's a lot of pages still to fill,' he said. 'How much sand have I got left? Only Ysabell said that since you turned the glass over that means I shall die when I'm —'</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>YOU HAVE SUFFICIENT, said Death coldly. MATHEMATICS ISNT ALL IT'S CRACKED UP TO BE.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'How do you feel about being invited to christenings?'</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I THINK NOT. I WASN'T CUT OUT TO BE A FATHER, AND CERTAINLY NOT A GRANDAD. I HAVEN'T GOT THE RIGHT KIND OF KNEES.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>He put down his wine glass and nodded at Mort.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>MY REGARDS TO YOUR GOOD LADY, he said. AND NOW I REALLY MUST BE OFF.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'Are you sure? You're welcome to stay.'</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>IT'S NICE OF YOU TO SAY SO, BUT DUTY CALLS. He extended a bony hand. YOU KNOW HOW IT IS.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>Mort gripped the hand and shook it, ignoring the chill.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'Look,' he said. 'If ever you want a few days off, you know, if you'd like a holiday —'</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>MANY THANKS FOR THE OFFER, said Death graciously. I SHALL THINK ABOUT IT MOST SERIOUSLY. AND NOW —</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>'Goodbye,' Mart said, and was surprised to find a lump in his throat. 'It's such an unpleasant word, isn't it?'</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>QUITE SO. Death grinned because, as has so often been remarked, he didn't have much option. But possibly he meant it, this time.</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">
          <span>I PREFER AU REVOIR, he said."</span>
        </em>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
      <br class="calibre1"/>
    
  <hr class="calibre3"/><h4 class="calibre11">notes</h4>
    <h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre7">
      Notes <br class="calibre8"/>
    </h1>
    
      <h1 id="note_1" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374684" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374688" class="calibre12"></a>
        1 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">Practically anything can go faster than Disc light, which is lazy and tame, unlike ordinary light. The only thing known to go faster than ordinary light is monarchy, according to the philosopher Ly Tin Wheedle. He reasoned like this: you can't have more than one king, and tradition demands that there is no gap between kings, so when a king dies the succession must therefore pass to the heir instantaneously. Presumably, he said, there must be some elementary particles — kingons, or possibly queons — that do this job, but of course succession sometimes fails if, in mid-flight, they strike an anti-particle, or republicon. His ambitious plans to use his discovery to send messages, involving the careful torturing of a small king in order to modulate the signal, were never fully expounded because, at that point, the bar closed. </div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_2" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374699" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374703" class="calibre12"></a>
        2 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">The first pizza was created on the Disc by the Klatchian mystic Ronron 'Revelation Joe' Shuwadhi, who claimed to have been given the recipe in a dream by the Creator of the Discworld Himself, Who had apparently added that it was what He had intended all along. Those desert travellers who had seen the original, which is reputedly miraculously preserved in the Forbidden City of Ee, say that what the Creator had in mind then was a fairly small cheese and pepperoni affair with a few black olives* and things like mountains and seas got added out of last-minute enthusiasm, as so often happens.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">* After the Schism of the Turnwise Ones and the deaths of some 25,000 people in the ensuing jihad the faithful were allowed to add one small bayleaf to the recipe.</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_3" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374723" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374727" class="calibre12"></a>
        3 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">Although not the droopy moustache and round furry hat with the spike on it.</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_4" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374738" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374742" class="calibre12"></a>
        4 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">The speech has been passed on to later generations in an epic poem commissioned by his son, who wasn't born in a saddle and could eat with a knife and fork. It began:</div>
      <blockquote class="calibre13">
        
          'See yonder the stolid foemen slumber <br class="calibre1"/>
          Fat with stolen gold, corrupt of mind. <br class="calibre1"/>
          Let the spears of your wrath be as the steppe fire on a <br class="calibre1"/>
          windy day in the dry season, <br class="calibre1"/>
          Let your honest blade thrust like the horns of <br class="calibre1"/>
          a five-year old yok with severe toothache....'<br class="calibre1"/>
        <br class="calibre1"/>
      </blockquote>
      <div class="paragraph">And went on for three hours. Reality, which can't usually afford to pay poets, records that in fact the entire speech ran: 'Lads, most of them are still in bed, we should go through them like kzak fruit through a short grandmother, and I for one have had it right up to here with yurts, okay?'</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_5" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374789" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374793" class="calibre12"></a>
        5 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">The Disc's greatest lovers were undoubtedly Mellius and Gretelina, whose pure, passionate and soul-searing affair would have scorched the pages of History if they had not, because of some unexplained quirk of fate, been born two hundred years apart on different continents. However, the gods took pity on them and turned him into an ironing board* and her into a small brass bollard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">* When you're a god, you don't have to have reasons. </div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_6" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374810" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374814" class="calibre12"></a>
        6 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">There had been half a jar of elderly mayonnaise, a piece of very old cheese, and a tomato with white mould growing on it. Since during the day the pantry of the palace of Sto Lat normally contained fifteen whole stags, one hundred brace of partridges, fifty hogsheads of butter, two hundred jugs of hares, seventy-five sides of beef, two miles of assorted sausages, various fowls, eighty dozen eggs, several Circle Sea sturgeon, a vat of caviar and an elephant's leg stuffed with olives, Cutwell had learned once again that one universal manifestation of raw, natural magic throughout the universe is this; that any domestic food store, raided furtively in the middle of the night, always contains, no matter what its daytime inventory, half a jar of elderly mayonnaise, a piece of very old cheese, and a tomato with white mould growing on it.</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_7" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374832" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374836" class="calibre12"></a>
        7 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork had dallied with many forms of government and had ended up with that form of democracy known as One Man, One Vote. The Patrician was the Man; he had the Vote.</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_8" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374848" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374852" class="calibre12"></a>
        8 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">The stone garden of Universal Peace and Simplicity, laid out to the orders of the old Emperor One Sun Mirror*, used economy of position and shadow to symbolise the basic unity of soul and matter and the harmony of all things. It was said the secrets at the very heart of reality lay hidden in the precise ordering of its stones.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">* Whose other claim to fame was his habit of cutting off his enemies' lips and legs and then promising them their freedom if they could run through the city playing a trumpet.</div>
    
    
      <h1 id="note_9" class="calibre7"><a id="TOC_id36374870" class="calibre12"></a><a name="TOC_id36374874" class="calibre12"></a>
        9 <br class="calibre8"/>
      </h1>
      <div class="paragraph">This is not precisely true. It is generally agreed by philosophers that the shortest time in which everything can happen is one thousand billion years.</div>
    
  </div>

{% endraw %}

