---
layout: page
title: "Mything Persons"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/asprin-mything-persons_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215827">Robert Asprin</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216936">Chapter One:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36298329">Chapter Two:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36299590">Chapter Three:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36300689">Chapter Four:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36301882">Chapter Five:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36302969">Chapter Six:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36303959">Chapter Seven:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36305005">Chapter Eight:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36306797">Chapter Nine:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36308130">Chapter Ten:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36309124">Chapter Eleven:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36310118">Chapter Twelve:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36311130">Chapter Thirteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36312153">Chapter Fourteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36313206">Chapter Fifteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36314276">Chapter Sixteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36315286">Chapter Seventeen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36316444">Chapter Eighteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36317380">Chapter Nineteen:</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36318364">Chapter Twenty:</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Robert Asprin <br class="calibre6"/>
  Mything Persons <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>


<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216936" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36217001" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter One: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>

   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This Ace Book contains the complete</div>
   <div class="paragraph">text of the original trade edition.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It has been completely reset in a typeface</div>
   <div class="paragraph">designed for easy reading and was printed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from new film.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An Ace book / published by arrangement with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Starblaze Editions of the Donning Company/Publishers</div>
  <div class="paragraph">PRINTING HISTORY</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Donning edition published 1984</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ace edition / November 1986</div>
  <div class="paragraph">All rights reserved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Copyright © 1984 by Robert L. Asprin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cover art by Walter Velez.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This book may not be reproduced in whole or in part,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">by mimeograph or any other means, without permission.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For information address: The Donning Company/Publishers,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">5659 Virginia Beach Blvd., Norfolk, Virginia 23502.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">ISBN: 0-441-55276-5</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ace Books are published by The Berkley Publishing Group,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The name "ACE" and the "A" logo</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are trademarks belonging to Charter Communications, Inc.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA</div>
  <div class="paragraph">10    9    8    7</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Reputations are fine up to a point. After</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that they become a pain!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—D.JUAN</div>
  <div class="paragraph">THERE is something sinfully satisfying about doing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something you know you aren't supposed to. This was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">roughly my frame of mind as I approached a specific</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nondescript tent at the Bazaar at Deva with my break-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fast under my arm ... guilty, but smug.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, young sahr!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I turned to find an elderly Deveel waving desperately</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at me as he hurried forward. Normally I would have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">avoided the encounter, as Deveels are always selling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something and at the moment I wasn't buying, but since</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wasn't in a hurry I decided to hear what he had to say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad I caught you in time," he said, struggling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to catch his breath. "While I don't usually meddle, you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">really don't want to go in there!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why not? I was just...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do you know who lives there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, actually I thought...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That is the dwelling of the Great Skeeve!"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Something about this busybody irritated me. Maybe</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it was the way he never let me finish a sentence. Any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way, I decided to string him along for a while."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Great Skeeve?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You never heard of him?" The Deveel seemed gen-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">uinely shocked. "He's probably the most powerful</div>
   <div class="paragraph">magician at the Bazaar."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My opinion of the busybody soared to new heights,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but the game was too much fun to abandon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've never had too much faith in magicians," I said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with studied casualness. "I've found for the most part</div>
   <div class="paragraph">their powers are overrated."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The oldster rolled his eyes in exasperation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That may be true in most cases, but not when it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">comes to the Great Skeeve! Did you know he consorts</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with Demons and has a dragon for a familiar?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I favored him with a worldly smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So what? Deva is a crossroads of the dimensions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dimension travelers, or Demons as you call them, are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the norm around here. As a Deveel, your main liveli-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hood comes from dealing with Demons. As for the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragon, there's a booth not eight rows from here that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sells dragons to anyone with the price.''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, no! You don't understand! Of course we all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">deal with Demons when it comes to business. The dif-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ference is that this Skeeve is actually friends with them</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... invites them into his home and lives with them. One</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of his permanent house guests is a Pervert, and I don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know of a single Deveel who would stoop that low.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What's more, I've heard it said that he has underworld</div>
   <div class="paragraph">connections."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The game was growing tiresome. Any points the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deveel had made with his tribute to the Great Skeeve</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had been lost with interest when he started commenting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on Demons.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS            3</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, thank you for your concern," I said, holding</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out my hand for a handshake. "I promise you I'll re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">member everything you've said. What was your name</div>
   <div class="paragraph">again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Deveel grabbed my hand and began pumping it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vigorously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I am Aliman, and glad to be of assistance," he said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with an ingratiating smile. "If you really want to show</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your gratitude, remember my name. Should you ever be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in need of a reputable magician, I have a nephew who's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just getting started in the business. I'm sure we could ar-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">range some discount prices for you. Tell me, what is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your name so I can tell him who to watch for?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tightened my grip slightly and gave him my widest</div>
   <div class="paragraph">smile. "Well, my friends call me Skeeve."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll be sure to tell... SKEEVE?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Deveel's eyes widened, and his complexion faded</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from red to a delicate pink.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right," I said, retaining my grip on his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Oh, and for your information Demons from Perv are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">called Pervects, not Perverts... and he's not my house</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guest, he's my partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Deveel was struggling desperately now, trying to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">free his hand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now then, how many customers have you scared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">away from my business with your tales about what a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fearsome person I am? "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Deveel tore loose from my grip and vanished into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the crowds, sounding an incoherent scream of terror as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he went. In short, Aliman left. Right?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I watched him go with a certain amount of mischie-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vous satisfaction. I wasn't really angry, mind you. We</div>
   <div class="paragraph">literally had more money than we could use right now,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">so I didn't begrudge him the customers. Still, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">never really paused to consider how formidable our</div>
  <div class="paragraph">4               Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">operation must look from the outside. Viewing it now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">through a stranger's eyes, I found myself more than a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little pleased. Considering the dubious nature of my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">beginning, we had built ourselves quite a reputation</div>
  <div class="paragraph">over the last few years.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had been serious when I told Aliman that I didn't</div>
  <div class="paragraph">have much faith in magicians. My own reputation was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">overrated to say the least, and if I was being billed as a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">powerful magician, it made the others of my profession</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more than a little suspect in my eyes. After several years</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of seeing the inside of the magic business, I was starting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to wonder if any magician was really as good as people</div>
  <div class="paragraph">thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was so wrapped up in these thoughts as I entered our</div>
  <div class="paragraph">humble tent that I had completely forgotten that I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">suppoised to be sneaking in. I was reminded almost im-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mediately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The reminder came in the form of a huge man who</div>
  <div class="paragraph">loomed up to block my path. "Boss," he said in a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">squeaky little voice that was always surprising coming</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from such a huge body, "you shouldn't ought to go out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alone like that. How many times we got to tell you...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's all right, Nunzio," I said, trying to edge around</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him. "I just ducked out to get some breakfast. Want a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">bagel?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nunzio was both unconvinced and undaunted in his</div>
  <div class="paragraph">scolding.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How are we supposed to be your bodyguards if you</div>
  <div class="paragraph">keep sneaking off alone every chance you get? Do you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know what Don Bruce would do to us if anything hap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pened to you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Nunzio. You know how things are here at</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the Bazaar. If the Deveels see me with a bodyguard, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">price of everything goes through the ceiling. Besides, I</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS            5</div>
  <div class="paragraph">like being able to wander around on my own once in a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">while."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You can afford the higher prices. What you can't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">afford is to set yourself up as a target for every bozo</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who wants the rep of bagging the Great Skeeve."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I started to argue, but my conversation with Aliman</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flashed across my mind. Nunzio was right. There were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">two sides to having a reputation. If anyone believed the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rumors at the Bazaar and still meant me harm, they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would muster such firepower for the attempt that my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">odds for survival would be nonexistent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nunzio," I said slowly, "you may be right, but in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all honesty what could you and Guido do to stop a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">magical attack on me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not a thing," he said calmly. "But they'd probably</div>
   <div class="paragraph">try to knock off your bodyguards first, and that might</div>
   <div class="paragraph">give you time to get away or hit them yourself before</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they could muster a second attack."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He said it easily, like you or I might say "The sun</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rises in the east," but it shook me. It had never really</div>
   <div class="paragraph">occurred to me how expendable bodyguards are, or how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">readily they accept the dangers of their profession.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll try to remember that in the future," I said with a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">certain degree of grave humility. "What's more, I think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I owe you and Guido an apology. Where is Guido,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Upstairs arguing with His Nibbs," Nunzio grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"As a matter of fact, I was looking for you to break it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up when I found you had snuck out again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you say so in the first place?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What for? There's no rush. They'll be arguing until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you get there. I figured it was more important to con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vince you to quit going out alone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I groaned a little inside, but I had learned long ago the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">6               Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">futility of arguing priorities with Nunzio.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, thanks again for the advice, but I'd better get</div>
  <div class="paragraph">upstairs before those two kill each other."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that I headed across the courtyard for the foun-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tain stairs to our offices....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Courtyard? Fountain stairs?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What happened to the humble tent I was walking into</div>
  <div class="paragraph">a minute ago?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Weelll... I said I was a magician, didn't I? Our little</div>
  <div class="paragraph">stall at the Bazaar is bigger on the inside than it is on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">outside. Lots bigger. I've lived in royal palaces that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">weren't as big as our "humble tent." I can't take any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">credit for this particular miracle, though, other than the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fact that it was my work that helped earn us our current</div>
   <div class="paragraph">residence. We live here rent-free courtesy of the Devan</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Merchants Association as partial payment for a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">job we did for them a while back. That's also how I got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my bodyguards ... but that's another story,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Devan Merchants Association, you ask? Okay. For</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the uninitiated, I'll go over this just once. The dimen-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sion I'm currently residing in is Deva, home of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shrewdest deal-drivers in all the known dimensions. You</div>
   <div class="paragraph">may have heard of them. In my own home dimension</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they were called devils, but I have since learned the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">proper pronunciation is Deveels. Anyway, my gracious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">living quarters are the result of my partner and I beating</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Deveels at their own game ... which is to say we got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the better of them in a deal. Don't tell anyone, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It would ruin their reputation and maybe even cost me a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cushy spot. You see, they still don't know they've been</div>
  <div class="paragraph">had.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, where was I? Oh, yes. Heading for the of-;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">fices. Normally after sneaking out 1 would stop by the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stables to share breakfast with Gleep, but with a crisis</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on my hands I decided to forgo the pleasure of my pet's</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS            7</div>
  <div class="paragraph">company and get to work. Gleep. He's the dragon</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aliman was talking about... and I'm not going to try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to condense that story. It's just too complicated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Long before I reached the offices I could hear their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">voices raised in their favorite "song." The lyrics</div>
   <div class="paragraph">changed from time to time, but I knew the melody by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">heart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Incompetent bungler!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who are you calling an incomplete bungler?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I stand corrected. You are a complete bungler!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You better watch your mouth! Even if you are the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">boss's partner, one more word and I'll...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll what? If you threw a punch the safest place</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to be would be where you're aiming."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Izzatso?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It sounded like I had arrived in the nick of time. Tak-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing a deep breath, I casually strolled into the teeth of the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">fracas.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hi, guys." I pretended to be totally unaware of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what was going on. "Anyone want a bagel?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, I don't want a bagel!" came the sneering re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sponse from one combatant. "What I want is some de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cent help."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and while you're at it see what you can do about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">getting me a little respect!" the other countered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The latter comment came from Guido, senior of my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">two bodyguards. If anything, he's bigger and nastier</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than his cousin Nunzio.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The former contribution came from Aahz. Aahz is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my partner. He's also a demon, a Pervect to be exact,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and even though he's slightly shorter than I am, he's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easily twice as nasty as my two bodyguards put together.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My strategy had worked in that I now had their an-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">noyance focused on me instead of each other. Now,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">realizing the potential devastation of their respective</div>
  <div class="paragraph">8              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">temperaments individually, much less collectively, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cause to doubt the wisdom of my strategy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What seems to be the trouble?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The trouble," Aahz snarled, "is that your ace ;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">bodyguard here just lost us a couple of clients."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My heart sank. I mentioned earlier that Aahz and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have more money than we know what to do with, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">old habits die hard. Aahz is the tightest being I've ever</div>
   <div class="paragraph">met when it comes to money, and, living at the Bazaar |</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at Deva, that's saying something! If Guido had really :</div>
  <div class="paragraph">lost a potential customer, we'd be hearing about it for a i</div>
  <div class="paragraph">long time.                                           I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Ease up a minute, partner," I said more to stall for</div>
  <div class="paragraph">time than anything else. "I just got here, remember?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Could you fill me in on a few of the details?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz favored Guido with one more dark stare.        I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's not all that much to tell," he said. "I was in</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the middle of breakfast..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He was drinking another meal," Guido translated</div>
  <div class="paragraph">scornfully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... when mush-f or-brains here bellows up that there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are some customers waiting downstairs in reception. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">called back that I'd be down in a few, then finished my</div>
  <div class="paragraph">meal."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He kept them waiting at least half an hour. You</div>
  <div class="paragraph">can't expect customers to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guido, could you hold the editorial asides for one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">round? Please?" I interceded before Aahz could go for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him. "I'm still trying to get a rough idea of what hap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pened, remember? Okay, Aahz. You were saying?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz took a deep breath, then resumed his account.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, when I got downstairs, the customers were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nowhere to be seen. You'd think your man here would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be able to stall them or at least have the sense to call for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reinforcements if they started getting twitchy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Aahz. Guido is supposed to be a body-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guard, not a receptionist. If some customers got tired of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">waiting for you to show up and left, I don't see where</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you can dodge the blame by shifting it to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute. Boss. You're missing the point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't leave!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I left 'em there in the reception room, and the next</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing I know Mr. Mouth here is hollerin' at me for los-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing customers. They never came out! Now, like you say,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm supposed to be a bodyguard. By my figuring we've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">got some extra people wandering the premises, and all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this slob wants to do is yell about whose fault it is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know whose fault it is," Aahz said with a glare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"There are only two ways out of that reception room,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and they didn't come past me!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well they didn't come past me!" Guido countered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I started to get a very cold feeling in my stomach.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz, "I said softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you think I don't know when...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"AAHZ!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought him up short. He turned to me with an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">angry retort on his lips, then he saw my expression.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it, Skeeve? You look as if...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There are more than two ways out of that room."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We stared at each other in stunned silence for a few</div>
   <div class="paragraph">moments, then we both sprinted for the reception room,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">leaving Guido to trail along behind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The room we had selected for our reception area was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one of the largest in the place, and the only large room</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with easy access from the front door. It was furnished in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a style lavish enough to impress even those customers</div>
   <div class="paragraph">spoiled by the wonders of the Bazaar who were expect-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing to see the home office of a successful magician.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was only one problem with it, and that was the</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">10</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">focus of our attention as we dashed in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The only decoration that we had kept from the previ-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ous owners was an ornate tapestry hanging on the north</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wall. Usually I'm faster than Aahz, but this time he beat</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me to the hanging, sweeping it aside with his arm to re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">veal a heavy door behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Our worst fears were realized.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door was unlocked and standing ajar.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36298329" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36298331" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Two: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Success often hinges on choosing a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reliable partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—REMUS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT'S that?" Guido demanded, taking advantage of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our stunned silence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a door," I said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"An open door, to be specific," Aahz supplied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can see that for myself!" the bodyguard roared. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">meant what is it doing here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It would look pretty silly standing alone in the mid-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dle of the street now, wouldn't it?" Aahz shot back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido purpled. As I've said, these two have a positive</div>
   <div class="paragraph">talent for getting under each other's skins.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now look, all I'm askin'...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guido, could you just hang on for a few minutes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">until we decide what to do next? Then we'll explain, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">promise."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My mind was racing over the problem, and having</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz and Guido going at each other did nothing for my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">concentration.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think the first thing we should do, partner," Aahz</div>
  <div class="paragraph">11</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">12 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">said thoughtfully, "is to get the door closed so that we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">won't be... interrupted while we work this out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Rather than answer, I reached out a cautious toe and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pushed the door shut. Aahz quickly slipped two of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bolts in place to secure it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That done, we leaned against the door and looked at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">each other in silence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well? What do you think?" I asked at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm in favor of sealing it up again and forgetting the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whole thing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think it's safe to do that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't know, really. Not enough information."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We both turned slowly to level thoughtful stares at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, uh, Guido, could you tell us a little more about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">those customers who came in this morning?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nothing doin'." Guido crossed his arms. "You're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the guys who insist on 'information for information.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Right? Well, I'm not telling you anything more until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somebody tells me about that door. I mean, I'm sup-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posed to be your bodyguard and nobody bothers to tell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me there's another way into this place?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz bared his teeth and started forward, but I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">caught him by the shoulder.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's right, partner. If we want his help, we owe him</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an explanation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We locked eyes again for a moment, then he shrugged</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and retreated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually, Guido, the explanation is very sim-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ple. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That'll be a first," the bodyguard grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In a bound, Aahz was across the room and had Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">by the shirt front.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You wanted an explanation? Then SHUT UP AND</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LET HIM EXPLAIN!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           13</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now Guido is no lightweight, and he's never been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">short in the courage department. Still, there's nothing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">quite like Aahz when he's really mad.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"0—Okay! Sorry! Go ahead. Boss. I'm listening."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz released his grip and returned to his place by the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">door, winking at me covertly as he went.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened is this," I said, hiding a smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz and I found that door when we first moved in</div>
  <div class="paragraph">here. We didn't like the looks of it, so we decided to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">leave it alone. That's all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's all!? A back door that even you admit looks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dangerous and all you do is ignore it? And if that wasn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bad enough, you don't even bother to tell your body-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guards about it? Of all the lamebrained, half...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz cleared his throat noisily, and Guido regained</div>
   <div class="paragraph">control of himself... rapidly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahh... what I mean to say is ... oh well. That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all behind us now. Could you give me a little more in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">formation now that the subject's out in the open?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What's on the other side of that door, anyway?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We don't know," I admitted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"YOU DON'T KNOW?" Guido shrieked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What we do know," Aahz interrupted hastily, "is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what isn't on the other side. What isn't there is any di-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mension we know about."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido blinked, then shook his head. "I don't get it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Could you run that past me again ... real slow?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let me try," I said. "Look, Guido, you already</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know about dimensions, right? How we're living in the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension Deva, which is an entirely different world</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than our own home dimension of Klah? Well, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">people here, the Deveels, are masters of dimension</div>
   <div class="paragraph">travel to a point where they build their houses across the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension barriers. That's how come this place is bigger</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the inside than it is on the outside. The door is in</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">14             Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Deva, but the rest of the house is in another dimension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That means if we go through that door, the back door</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that we've just shown you, we'd be in another world ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one we know nothing about. That's why we were willing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to leave it sealed up rather than stick our noses out into</div>
  <div class="paragraph">a completely unknown situation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I still think you should have checked it out," the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">bodyguard insisted stubbornly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think again," Aahz supplied. "You've only seen</div>
  <div class="paragraph">two dimensions. Skeeve here has visited a dozen. I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been to over a hundred myself. The Deveels you see here</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at the Bazaar, on the other hand, know over a thousand</div>
  <div class="paragraph">different dimensions."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"So we think they gave us this place because it opens</div>
  <div class="paragraph">into a dimension that they don't want... 'don't want'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as in 'scared to death of. Now, you've seen what a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deveel will brave to turn a profit. Do you want to go ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ploring in a world that's too mean for them to face?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see what you mean."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Besides." Aahz finished triumphantly, "take an-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">other look at that door. It's got more locks and bolts</div>
  <div class="paragraph">than three ordinary bank vaults."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody opened it," Guido said pointedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That took some of the wind out of Aahz's sails.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite himself, he shot a nervous glance at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well... a good thief with a lockpick working from</div>
  <div class="paragraph">this side...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Some of these locks weren't picked, Aahz."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had been taking advantage of their discussion to do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a little snooping, and now held up one of my discoveries</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for their inspection. It was a padlock with the metal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shackle snapped off. There were several of them scat-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tered about, as if someone had gotten impatient with the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           15</div>
  <div class="paragraph">lockpick and simply torn the rest of them apart with his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hands.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido pursed his lips in a silent whistle. "Man, that's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">strong. What kind of person could do that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what we've been trying to get you to tell us,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz said nastily. "Now, if you don't mind, what were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">those customers like?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Three of them... two men and a woman... fairly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">young-looking, but nothing special. Klahds by the look</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of 'em. Come to think of it, they did seem a bit nervous,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but I thought it was just because they were coming to see</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a magician."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, now they're on the other side of the door."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz scooped up one of the undamaged locks and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">snapped it into place. "I don't think they can pick</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locks, or break them if they can't reach 'em. They're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there, which is their problem, self-inflicted I might add,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and we're here. End of puzzle. End of problem."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do you really think so, Aahz?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Trust me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Somehow that phrase struck a familiar chord in my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">memory, and the echoes weren't pleasant. I was about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to raise this point with Aahz when Nunzio poked his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">head in the door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Boss. You got visitors."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"See?" my partner exclaimed, beaming. "I told you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">things could only get better! It's not even noon and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we've got more customers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually," Nunzio clarified, "it's a delegation of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deveels. I think it's the landlord."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The landlord?" Aahz echoed hollowly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"See how much better things have gotten?" I said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with a disgusted smirk. "And it's not even noon."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shall I run 'em off, Boss?" Guido suggested.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">16              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think you'd better see *em," Nunzio advised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"They seem kind'a upset. Something about us harbor-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing fugitives."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz and I locked gazes in silence, which was only</div>
  <div class="paragraph">natural as there was nothing more to be said. With a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vague wave that bordered on a nervous tick, I motioned</div>
  <div class="paragraph">for Nunzio to show the visitors in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As expected, it was the same delegation of four from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Devan Chamber of Commerce who had originally</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hired us to work for the Bazaar, headed by our old ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">versary, Hay-ner. Last time we dealt with him, we had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him over a barrel and used the advantage mercilessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While he had agreed to our terms, I always suspected it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had hurt his Devan pride to cut such a generous deal and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that he had been waiting ever since to pay us back. From</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the smile on his face as he entered our reception room, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">appeared he felt his chance had finally come.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahh, Master Skeeve," he said. "How good of you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to see us so promptly without an appointment. I know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how busy you are, so I'll come right to the point. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">believe there are certain individuals in residence here</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that our organization is most anxious to speak with. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you would be so kind as to summon them, we won't</div>
  <div class="paragraph">trouble you further."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, Hay-ner," Aahz put in before I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">could respond. "What makes you think the people</div>
  <div class="paragraph">you're looking for are here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because they were seen entering your tent less than</div>
  <div class="paragraph">an hour ago and haven't come out yet," said the largest</div>
  <div class="paragraph">of Hay-ner's back-up team.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I noticed that unlike Hay-ner, he wasn't smiling. In</div>
  <div class="paragraph">fact, he looked down-right angry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He must mean the ones who came in earlier," Nun-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">zio suggested helpfully. "You know. Boss, the two guys</div>
  <div class="paragraph">with the broad."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">17</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz rolled his eyes in helpless frustration, and for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">once I was inclined to agree with him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm, Nunzio," I said, staring at the ceiling, "why</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't you and Guido wait outside while we take care of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The two bodyguards trooped outside in silence,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though I noticed that Guido glared at his cousin with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">such disdain that I suspected a stern dressing-down</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would take place even before I could get to him myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Mob is no more tolerant than magicians of staff</div>
   <div class="paragraph">members who say more than they should in front of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">opposition.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now that we've established that we all know who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we're talking about and that they're here," Hay-ner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, rubbing his hands together, "call them out and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we'll finish this once and for all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so fast," I interrupted. "First of all, neither of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">us have laid eyes on those folks you're looking for,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">because, second of all, they aren't here. They took it on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the lam out the back door before we could meet them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somehow, I don't expect you to take our word for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it," Aahz added. "So feel free to search the place."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Deveel's smile broadened, and I was conscious of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cold sweat breaking out on my brow.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That won't be necessary. You see, whether I believe</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you or not is of little consequence. Even if we searched,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm sure you would be better at hiding things than we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would be at finding them. All that really matters is that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we've established that they did come in here, and that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">makes them .your responsibility."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I wasn't sure exactly what was going on here, but I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was sure that I was liking it less and less with each pass-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing moment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, Hay-ner," I began. "What do you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean 'We're responsible'? Responsible for what?"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">18              Robert Asprin                 ;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why, for the fugitives, of course. Don't you remem- |</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ber? When we agreed to let you use this place rent-free,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">part of the deal was that if anyone of this household</div>
   <div class="paragraph">broke any of the Bazaar rules, and either disappeared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off to another dimension or. otherwise refused to face ;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the charges, that you would personally take responsibil-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ity for their actions. It's a standard clause in any Bazaar</div>
  <div class="paragraph">lease."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz," I said testily, "you cut the deal. Was there a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">clause like that in it?"                                 |</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There was," he admitted. "But I was thinking of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda and Chumley at the time... and we'll stand</div>
   <div class="paragraph">behind them anytime. Massha, too. It never occurred to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me that they'd try to claim that anyone who walked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">through our door was a member of our household. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't see how they can hope to prove...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We don't have to prove that they're in your house-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hold," Hay-ner smiled. "You have to prove they</div>
  <div class="paragraph">aren't."                                        I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That's crazy," Aahz exploded. "How can we |</div>
  <div class="paragraph">prove...."                                      I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can it, Aahz. We can't prove it. That's the point. |</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All right, Hay-ner. You've got us. Now what exactly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have these characters done that we're responsible for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and what are our options? I thought one of the big sales</div>
   <div class="paragraph">points of the Bazaar was that there weren't any rules</div>
  <div class="paragraph">here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There aren't many," the Deveel said, "but the few</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that do exist are strictly enforced. The specific rule your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends broke involves fraud."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He quickly held up a hand to suppress my retort.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I know what you're going to say. Fraud sounds like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a silly charge with all the hard bargaining that goes on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here at the Bazaar, but to us it's a serious matter. While</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we pride ourselves in driving a hard bargain, once the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           19</div>
  <div class="paragraph">deal is made you get the goods you were promised.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes there are specific details omitted in describ-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing the goods, but anything actually said is true. That is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our reputation and the continued success of the Bazaar</div>
   <div class="paragraph">depends on that reputation being scrupulously main-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tained. If a trader or merchant sells something claiming</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it to be magical and it turns out to have no powers at all,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that's fraud ... and if the perpetrators are allowed to go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unpunished, it could mean the end of the Bazaar as we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually," I said drily, "all I was going to do was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">protest you billing them as our friends, but I'll let it go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What you haven't mentioned is our options."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hay-ner shrugged. "There are only three, really. You</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can pay back the money they took falsely plus a twenty-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">five percent fine, accept permanent banishment from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Bazaar, or you can try to convince your fr—aahh, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean the fugitives to return to the Bazaar to settle mat-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ters themselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see... Very well. You've had your say. Now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">please leave so my partner and I can discuss our position</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the matter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz took care of seeing them out while I plunged</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into thought as to what we should do. When he re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turned, we both sat in silence for the better part of an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hour before either of us spoke.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," I said at last, "what do you think?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Banishment from the Bazaar is out!" Aahz snarled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Not only would it destroy our reputations, I'm not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about to get run out of the Bazaar and our home over</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something as idiotic as this!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Agreed," I said grimly. "Even though it occurs to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me that Hay-ner is bluffing on that option. He wants us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to stick around the Bazaar as much as we want to stay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was the one who hired us in the first place, remem-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">20</div>
  <div class="paragraph">ber? I think he's expecting us to ante up and pay the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">money. That way he gets back some of the squeeze he so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">grudgingly parted with. Somehow the idea of giving in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to that kind of pressure really galls me."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz nodded. "Me too."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There followed several more minutes of silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay," Aahz said finally, "who's going to say it?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're going to have to go after them." I sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Half right," Aahz corrected. "I'm going to have to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">go after them. Partner or not, we're talking about hit-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ting a totally new dimension here, and it's too danger-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ous for someone at your level of magical skill."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My level? How about you? You don't have any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">powers at all. If it's too dangerous for me, what's sup-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posed to keep you safe?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Experience," he said loftily. "I'm used to doing</div>
  <div class="paragraph">this, and you aren't. End of argument."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">" 'End of argument' nothing! Just how do you pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pose to leave me behind if I don't agree?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's easy," Aahz grinned. "See who's standing in</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the corner?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned to look where he was pointing, and that's the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">last thing I remembered for a long time.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36299590" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36299592" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Three: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Reliable information is a must for suc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cessful planning."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—C. COLUMBUS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"HEY! Hot stuff! Wake up!! You okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If I led a different kind of life, those words would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have been uttered by a voluptuous vision of female</div>
   <div class="paragraph">loveliness. As it was, they were exclaimed by Massha.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This was one of the first things that penetrated the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fogginess of my mind as I struggled to regain con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sciousness. I'm never at my best first thing in the morn-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing, even when I wake up leisurely of my own accord.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Having wakefulness forced upon me by someone else</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only guarantees that my mood will be less than pleasant.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">However groggy I might be feeling, though, there was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">no mistaking the fact that it was Massha shaking me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">awake. Even through unfocused eyes, her form was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unmistakable. Imagine, if you will, the largest, fattest</div>
   <div class="paragraph">woman you've ever met. Now expand that image by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fifty percent in all directions, top it off with garish</div>
   <div class="paragraph">orange hair, and false eyelashes and purple lipstick, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">adorn it with a wheelbarrow load of gaudy jewelry. See</div>
  <div class="paragraph">21</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">22</div>
  <div class="paragraph">what I mean? I could recognize Massha a mile away on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a dark night... blindfolded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course I'm okay, apprentice'." I snarled. "Don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you have any lessons you're supposed to be practicing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or something?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure? she pressed mercilessly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I'm sure. Why do you ask? Can't a fellow take</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a little nap without being badgered about it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's just that you don't usually take naps in the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">middle of the reception room floor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That got my attention, and I forced my eyes into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">focus. She was right! For some reason I was sprawled</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out on the floor. Now what could have possessed me</div>
  <div class="paragraph">to....</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it all came back! Aahz! The expedition into the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">new dimension!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I sat bolt upright... and regretted it immediately. A</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blinding headache assaulted me with icepick intensity,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and my stomach flipped over and landed on its back</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with all the grace of a lump of overcooked oatmeal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha caught me by the shoulder as I started to list.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Steady there, High Roller. Looks like your idea of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'okay' and mine are a little out of synch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ignoring her, I felt the back of my head cautiously</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and discovered a large, tender lump behind my ear. If I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had had any doubts as to what had happened, they were</div>
  <div class="paragraph">gone now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That bloody Pervert!" I said, flinching at the new</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wave of pain brought on by the sound of my own voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"He must have knocked me out and gone in alone!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You mean Aahz? Dark, green, and scaly himself? I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't get it. Why would your own partner sucker-punch</div>
  <div class="paragraph">you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So he could go through the door without me. I made;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">23</div>
  <div class="paragraph">it very clear that I didn't want to be left behind on this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">caper."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Door? What door?" Massha said with a frown. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know you two have your secrets, Boss, but I think you'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">better fill me in on a few more details as to exactly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what's going on around here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As briefly as I could, I brought her up to date on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">day's events, including the explanation as to why Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and I had never said anything about the house's mys-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">terious back door. Being a seasoned dimension traveler</div>
   <div class="paragraph">herself, she grasped the concept of an unlisted dimen-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sion and its potential dangers much more rapidly than</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guide and Nunzio.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What I don't understand is even if he didn't want</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you along, why didn't he take someone else as a back-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like who?" I said with a wry grimace. "We've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">already established that you're my apprentice and he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doesn't give you orders without clearing them through</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me. He's never been impressed with Guido and Nunzio.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda and Chumley are off on their own contracts</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and aren't due back for several days. Even Gus is taking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a well-earned vacation with Berfert. Besides, he knows</div>
   <div class="paragraph">good and well that if he started building a team and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">excluded me, there'd be some serious problems before</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the dust settled. I wouldn't take something like that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lying down!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't look now, but you just did," my apprentice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pointed out dryly, "though I have to admit he sort of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">forced it on you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, she slid a hand under each of my armpits</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and picked me up, setting me gently on my feet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, now what? I supposed you're going to go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">charging after him with blood in your eye. Mind if I tag</div>
  <div class="paragraph">24</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 25</div>
  <div class="paragraph">along? Or are you bound and determined to be as stupid</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as he is?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As a matter of fact, that was exactly what I had been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">planning to do. The undisguised sarcasm in her voice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">combined with the unsettling wobbliness of my legs,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">however, led me to reconsider.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No," I said carefully. "One of us blundering</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around out there is enough ... or one too many, de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pending on how you count it. While I still think I should</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have gone along, Aahz has dealt this hand, so it's up to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him to play it out. It's up to me to mind the store until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he gets back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha cocked an eyebrow at me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That makes sense," she said, "though I'll admit I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a little surprised to hear you say it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm a responsible businessman now." I shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"I can't afford to go off half-cocked like a rash kid any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more. Besides, I have every confidence in my partner's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ability to handle things."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those were brave words, and I meant them. Two days</div>
   <div class="paragraph">later, however, this particular 'responsible business-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">man' was ready to go off fully cocked. Guido and Nun-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">zio ceased to complain about my sneaking off alone...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mostly because I didn't go out at all! In fact, I spent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">most of my waking hours and all of my sleeping hours</div>
   <div class="paragraph">(though I'll admit I didn't sleep much) in the reception</div>
   <div class="paragraph">room on the off-chance that I could greet Aahz on his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">triumphant return.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Unfortunately, my vigil went unrewarded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I did my best to hide my concern, but I needn't have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bothered. As the hours marched on, my staff's worries</div>
   <div class="paragraph">grew until most of my time was spent telling them, "No,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he isn't back yet. When he gets here, I'll let you know."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even Guido, who never really got along with Aahz,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">took to stopping by at least once an hour for a no-prog-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ress report.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Finally, as a salve for my own nerves, I called every-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one into the reception room for a staff meeting.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What I want to know is how long are we just going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to sit around before we admit that something's gone</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wrong?" Guido muttered for the fifth time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How long do you figure it takes to find a fugitive in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a strange dimension?" I shot back. "How long would it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take you to find them if they were on Klah, Guido?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We've got to give him some time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How much time?" he countered. "It's already been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">two days...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tananda and Chumley will be back any time now,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha interrupted. "Do you think they'll just sit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around on their hands when they find out that Aahz is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out there all alone?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were the one who thought that going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">after him was a stupid idea?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I still do. Now do you want to know what I think of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the idea of doing nothingi"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Before I could answer, a soft knock sounded at the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">door ... the back door!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"See!" I crowed triumphantly. "I told you he would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be back!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That doesn't sound like his knock," Guido ob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">served suspiciously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And why should he knock?" Massha added. "The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">door hasn't been locked since he left."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In my own relief and enthusiasm, their remarks went</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unnoticed. In a flash I was at the door, wrenching it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">open while voicing the greeting I had been rehearsing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for two days.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's about time, part... ner."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">26</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           27</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It wasn't Aahz.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In fact, the being outside the door didn't look any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing at all like Aahz. What was doubly surprising,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though, was that I recognized her!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We had never really met... not to exchange names,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but shortly after meeting Aahz I had been strung up by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an angry mob while impersonating her, and I had seen</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her in the crowd when I successfully "interviewed" for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the job of court magician at Possletum.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What I had never had a chance to observe first-hand</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was her radiant complexion framed by waves of sun-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gold hair, or the easy grace with which she carried her-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">self, or the....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's the Great Skeeve, right? Behind the open</div>
  <div class="paragraph">mouth?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her voice was so musical it took me a few moments to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">zero in on what she had said and realize that she was ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pecting an answer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahh ... yes. I mean, at your service,"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Glad to finally meet you face-to-face," she said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">briskly, glancing at Guido and Massha nervously. "I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been looking for an excuse for a while, and I guess this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is it. Got some news for you... about your appren-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was still having problems focusing on what she was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saying. Not only was her voice mesmerizing, she was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easily the loveliest woman I had ever met... well, girl</div>
   <div class="paragraph">actually. She couldn't have been much older than me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What's more, she seemed to like me. That is, she kept</div>
   <div class="paragraph">smiling hesitantly and her deep blue eyes never left</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mine. Now, I had gotten respect from my colleagues</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and from beings at the Bazaar who knew my reputation,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but never from anyone who looked like ....</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then her words sank in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"My apprentice?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stole an involuntary glance at Massha before I real-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ized the misunderstanding.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, you mean Aahz. He's not my apprentice any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more. He's my partner. Please come in. We were just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">talking about him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stood to one side of the door and invited her in with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a grand sweeping gesture. I'd never tried it before, but I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had seen it used a couple of times while I was working</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the court at Possletum, and it had impressed me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm—Boss? Could I talk to you for a minute?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Later, Guido."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I repeated the gesture, and the girl responded with a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">quick smile that lit up the room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks for the invite," she said, "but I'll have to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take a rain check. I really can't stay. In fact, I shouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be here at all. I just thought that someone should let you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know that your friend... Aahz is it? Anyway, your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friend is in jail."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought me back to earth in a hurry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz? In jail? For what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Murder."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"MURDER!" I shrieked, dropping all attempts to be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">urbane. "But Aahz wouldn't.. .."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't shout at me! Oh, I knew I shouldn't have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">come. Look, I know he didn't do it. That's why I had to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">let you know what was going on. If you don't do some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing, they're going to execute him... and they know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how to execute demons over here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I spun around to face the others.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Massha! Go get your jewelry case. Guido, Nunzio!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gear up. We're going to pay a little call on our neigh-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bors."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tried to keep my voice calm and level, but somehow</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the words came out a bit more intense than I had in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tended.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">28</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 29</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so fast. Boss," Guido said. "There's something</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you oughta know first."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Later. I want you to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"NOW, Boss. It's important!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT IS IT!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Needless to say, I was not eager to enter into any pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">longed conversations just now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's one of'em."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I beg your pardon?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The three that went out through the back door. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ones your partner is chasing. She's the broad."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thunderstruck, I turned to the girl for confirmation,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only to find the doorway was empty. My mysterious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">visitor had disappeared as suddenly as she had arrived.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This could be a trap, you know," Massha said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thoughtfully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's right." Guido nodded. "Take it from some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one who's been on the lam himself. When you're run-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ning from the law and there are only a couple of people</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who can find you, it gets real tempting to eliminate that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">link. We've only got her word that your partner's in</div>
  <div class="paragraph">trouble."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It wouldn't take a mental giant to figure out that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you and Aahz are the most likely hunters for the Deveels</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to hire. After all, they knew whose house they were cut-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ting through for their getaway," Massha added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido rose to his feet and started pacing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right," he said. "Now suppose they've got Aahz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Can you think of a better way to bag the other half of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the pair than by feeding you a line about your partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being in trouble so you'll come charging into whatever</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trap they've laid out? The whole set-up stinks, Boss. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't know about strange dimensions, but I do know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about criminals. As soon as you step through that door,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're gonna be a sitting duck."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you quite through?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Even to my ears my voice sounded icy, but for a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">change I didn't care.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido and Massha exchanged glances, then nodded</div>
   <div class="paragraph">silently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very well. You may be right, and I appreciate your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">concern for my well-being. HOWEVER ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My voice sank to a deadly hiss.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... what if you're wrong? What if our fugitive is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">telling the truth? You've all been on my case about not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing anything to help Aahz. Do you really think I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just going to sit here while my partner AND friend</div>
   <div class="paragraph">burns for a crime he didn't commit ... on the off-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">chance that getting involved might be dangerous to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With great effort I forced my tones back to normal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"In ten minutes I'm going through that door after</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz... and if I'm walking into a trap, it had better be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a good one. Now do any of you want to come with me,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or am I going it alone?"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36300689" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36300691" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Four: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"It's useless to try to plan for the unex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pected ... by definition!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—A. HITCHCOCK</div>
  <div class="paragraph">ACTUALLY, it was more like an hour before we were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">really ready to go, though for me it seemed like a lot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">longer. Still, even I had to admit that not taking the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">proper preparations for this venture would not only be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">foolish, it would be downright suicidal!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was decided that Nunzio would stay behind so there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would be someone at our base to let Tananda and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chumley know what was going on when they returned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Needless to say, he was less than thrilled by the assign-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But I'm supposed to be your bodyguard!" he ar-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gued. "How'm I supposed to guard you if I'm sittin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back here while you're on the front lines?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"By being sure our support troops get the informa-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion they need to follow us," I said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As much as I disliked having to argue with Nunzio, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would rather dig in my heels against half a dozen Mob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">type bodyguards than have to explain to Tananda and</div>
  <div class="paragraph">30</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           31</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chumley why they weren't included in this rescue mis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We could leave a note."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We could...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"NO! I want you here. Is that plain enough?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard heaved a heavy sigh. "Okay, Boss.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'll hang in here until they show up. Then the three of us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">will...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No!" I said again. "Then Tananda and Chumley</div>
   <div class="paragraph">will come in after us. You're going to stay here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Boss...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because if Hay-ner and his crew show up again,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">someone has to be here to let them know we're on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">job and that we haven't just taken off for the tall</div>
   <div class="paragraph">timber. Assuming for the moment that we're going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">make it back, we need our exit route, and you're going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to be here making sure it stays open. All we need is for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our hosts to move in a new tenant while we're gone...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">say, someone who decides to brick up this door while</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we're on the other side."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nunzio thought this through in silence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What if you don't come back?" he asked finally.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll burn that bridge when we come to it," I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sighed. "But remember, we aren't that easy to kill. At</div>
   <div class="paragraph">least one of us will probably make it back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, my mind was wrenched away from that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unpleasant train of thought by the arrival of Guido.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ready to go. Boss."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite the desperateness of the situation and the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">haunting time pressures, I found myself gaping at him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?" I managed at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido was decked out in a long dark coat and wear-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"These? These are my work clothes," he said</div>
  <div class="paragraph">32 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">proudly. "They're functional as well as decorative."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What I mean is, not only do people find 'em in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">timidating, the trench coat has all these little pockets in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">side, see? That's where I carry my hardware."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hi, Hot Stuff. Nice outfit, Guido."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks! I was just telling the Boss here about it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha was dressed ... or should I say undressed in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her work clothes. A brief vest struggled to cover even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">part of her massive torso, while an even briefer bottom</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was on the verge of surrendering its battle completely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm ....assha?" I said carefully. "I've always</div>
   <div class="paragraph">meant to ask. Why don't you... ummm... wear</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I like to dress cool when we're going into a hot situa-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion," she winked. "You see, when things speed up, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get a little nervous... and the only thing worse than</div>
   <div class="paragraph">havin' a fat broad around is havin' a sweaty fat broad</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think it's a sexy outfit," Guido chimed in. "Re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minds me of the stuff my old man's moll used to wear."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well thanks. Dark and Deadly. I'd say your old</div>
   <div class="paragraph">man had good taste ... but I never tasted him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I studied them thoughtfully as they shared a laugh</div>
   <div class="paragraph">over Massha's joke. Any hope of a quiet infiltration of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this unknown dimension was rapidly disintegrating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Either Guido or Massha alone was eye-catching, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">together they were about as inconspicuous as a circus</div>
   <div class="paragraph">parade and an army maneuver sharing the same road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then it occurred to me that, not knowing what things</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were like where we were heading, they might fit in and /</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would stand out. It was a frightening thought. If every-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">body there looked like this....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I forced the thought from my mind. No use scaring</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           33</div>
  <div class="paragraph">myself any more than I had to before there was in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">formation to back it up. What was important was that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my two assistants were scared. They were trying hard</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not to show it, but in doing so, each was dropping into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">old patterns, slipping behind old character masks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido was playing his "tough gangster" bit to the hilt,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">while Massha was once more assuming her favorite</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"vamp" character with a vengeance. The bottom line,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though, was that, scared or not, they were willing to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back my move or die trying. It would have been touch-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing, if it weren't for the fact that it meant they were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">counting on me for leadership. That meant I had to stay</div>
   <div class="paragraph">calm and confident... no matter how scared I felt my-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">self. It only occurred to me as an afterthought that, in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">many ways, leadership was the mask / was learning to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slip behind when things got tight. It made me wonder</div>
   <div class="paragraph">briefly if anyone ever really knew what they were doing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or felt truly confident, or if life was simply a mass game</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of role-playing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. Are we ready?" I asked, shrugging off my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wandering thoughts. "Massha? Got your jewelry?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wearing most of it, and the rest is right here," she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, patting the pouch on her belt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">While I will occasionally make snide mental com-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ments about my apprentice's jewelry, it serves a dual</div>
   <div class="paragraph">purpose. Massha's baubles are in reality a rather exten-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sive collection of magical gimmicks she has accumulated</div>
   <div class="paragraph">over the years. How extensive? Well, before she signed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on as my apprentice to learn real magic, she was holding</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down a steady job as the magician for the city-state of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ta-hoe on the dimension of Jahk solely on the strength</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of her collected mechanical "powers." While I agreed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with Aahz that real magic was preferable to mechanical</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in that it was less likely to malfunction (a lesson learned</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from first-hand experience) I sure didn't mind having</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">34 MYTH-ING PERSONS 35</div>
  <div class="paragraph">her arsenal along for back-up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know that tracking ring? The one you used to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">find the king? Any chance there's an extra tucked away</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in your pouch?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Only have the one," she said, waggling the ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">propriate finger.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I cursed mentally, then made the first of what I feared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would be many unpleasant decisions on this venture.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Give it to Nunzio. Tananda and Chumley will need</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it to find us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But if we leave it behind, how are we going to find</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your partner?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll have to figure out something, but we can't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">afford to divide our forces. Otherwise, even if we get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz, we could still end up wandering around out there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trying to find the other half of the rescue team."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you say so. Hot Stuff," she grimaced, handing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">over the ring, "but I hope you know what you're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So do I, Massha, so do I. Okay, gang, let's see what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our backyard is really like!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">From the outside, our place looked a lot more impres-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sive than the side that showed in the Bazaar. It really did</div>
   <div class="paragraph">look like a castle ... a rather ominous one at that,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">squatting alone on a hilltop. I really didn't study it too</div>
   <div class="paragraph">close, though, beyond being able to recognize it again</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for our trip out. As might be expected, my main atten-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion was focused on the new dimension itself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Kinda dark, ain't it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guide's comment was more statement than question,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and he was right.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Wherever we were, the lighting left a lot to be desired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At first I thought it was night, which puzzled me, as so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">far in my travels all dimensions seemed to be on the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">same sun-up and sun-down schedule. Then my eyes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">adjusted to the gloom and I realized the sky was simply</div>
   <div class="paragraph">heavily overcast... to a point where next to no light at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all penetrated, giving a night-like illusion to the day.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aside from that, from what I could see, this new land</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seemed pretty much like any of the others I had visited:</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Trees, underbrush, and a road leading to or from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">castle, depending on which way you were facing. I think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it was Tananda who was fond of saying "If you've seen</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one dimension, you've seen them all." Chumley, her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brother, argued that the reason for the geologic similari-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ties was that all the dimensions we traveled were differ-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ent realities off the same base. This always struck me as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being a bit redundant... "They're all alike because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they're the same? C'mon Chumley!", but his rebuttals</div>
   <div class="paragraph">always left me feeling like I'd been listening to someone</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing readings in another language, so of late I've been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tending to avoid the discussions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, Hot Stuff, what do we do now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a change, I had an answer for this infuriating</div>
   <div class="paragraph">question.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This road has to go somewhere. Just the fact that it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">exists indicates we aren't alone in this dimension."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought we already knew that," Guido said under</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his breath. "That's why we're here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I gave him my best dark glare.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I believe there was some debate as to whether or not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were being lied to about Aahz being held prisoner. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there's a road here, it's a cinch that neither my partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nor the ones he was chasing built it. That means we have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">native types to deal with . .. possibly hostile."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right," Massha put in quickly. "Put a sock in it,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido. I want to hear our plan of action, and I don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like being kept waiting by hecklers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard frowned, but kept his silence.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">36 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. Now, what we've got to do is follow this road</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and find out where it goes. Hug the side of the road and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be ready to disappear if you hear anybody coming. We</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't know what the locals look like, and until I have a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">model to work from, it's pointless for me to try to dis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guise us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With those general marching orders, we made our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way through the dark along the road, moving quietly to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">avoid tipping our hand to anyone ahead of us. In a short</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time we came up to our first decision point. The road we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were on ended abruptly when it met another, much</div>
   <div class="paragraph">larger thoroughfare. My assistants looked at me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">expectantly. With a shrug I made the arbitrary decision</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and led them off to the right down this new course. As</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we went, I reflected with some annoyance that even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though both Massha and Guido knew that I was as new</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to this terrain as they were, it somehow fell to me to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">choose the path.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My thoughts were interrupted by the sound of voices</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ahead, coming our way. The others heard it too, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">without word or signal we melted into the underbrush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Squatting down, I peered through the gloom toward the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">road, anxious to catch my first glimpse of the native life</div>
   <div class="paragraph">forms.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I didn't have long to wait. Two figures appeared, a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">young couple by the look of them, talking and laughing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">merrily as they went. They looked pretty normal to me,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">which was a distinct relief, considering the forms I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had to imitate in some of the other dimensions. They</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were humanoid enough to pass for Klahds... or Jahks,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">actually, as they were a bit pale. Their dress was not dis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">similar from my own, though a bit more colorful. Ab-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sorbing all this in a glance, I decided to make my first</div>
   <div class="paragraph">try for information. I mean, after all my fears, they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were so familiar it was almost a letdown, so why not</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           37</div>
  <div class="paragraph">bull ahead? Compared with some of the beings I've had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to deal with in the past, this looked like a piece of cake.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Signaling the others to stay put, I stepped out onto</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the road behind my target couple.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me!" I called "I'm new to this area and in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">need of a little assistance. Could you direct me to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nearest town?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Translation pendants were standard equipment for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension travel, and as I was wearing one now, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">no fear of not being understood.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The couple turned to face me, and I was immediately</div>
   <div class="paragraph">struck by their eyes. The "whites" of their eyes glowed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a dark red, sending chills down my spine. It occurred to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me that I might have studied the locals a bit longer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before I tried to pass myself off as a native. It also</div>
   <div class="paragraph">occurred to me that I had already committed myself to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this course of action and would have to bluff my way</div>
   <div class="paragraph">through it regardless. Finally, it occurred to me that I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was a suicidal idiot and that I hoped Massha and Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were readying their back-up weapons to save me from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my own impatience.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Strangely enough, the couple didn't seem to notice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anything unusual about my appearance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The nearest town? That would be Blut. It's not far,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we just came from there. It's got a pretty wild night life,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">if you're into that kind of thing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was something about his mouth that nagged at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the edges of my mind. Unfortunately, I couldn't look at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it directly without breaking eye contact, so, buoyed by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my apparent acceptance, I pushed ahead with the con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">versation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually, I'm not too big on night life. I'm trying to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">run down an old friend of mine I've lost touch with. Is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there a post office or a police station in Blut I could ask</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">38 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Better than that," the man laughed. "The one you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">want to talk to is the Dispatcher. He keeps tabs on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">everybody. The third warehouse on your left as you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enter town. He's converted the whole second floor into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an office. If he can't help you, nobody can."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As vital as the information was, I only paid it partial</div>
   <div class="paragraph">attention. When the man laughed, I had gotten a better</div>
   <div class="paragraph">look at his mouth. His teeth were....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look at his teeth!" the girl gasped, speaking for the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My teeth?" I blinked, realizing with a start that she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was staring at me with undisguised astonishment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her companion, in the meantime, had paled notice-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ably and was backing away on unsteady legs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You ... you're ... Where did you come from?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Trying my best to maintain a normal manner until I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had figured out what was going on, I moved forward to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">keep our earlier conversational distance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The castle on the hill back there. I was just...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"THE CASTLE!?!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In a flash the couple turned and sprinted away from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me down the road.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Monster!! Help!! MONSTER!!!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I actually spun and looked down the road behind me,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trying to spot the object of their terror. Looking at the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">empty road, however, it slowly began to sink in. They</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were afraid of me\ Monster?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Of all the reactions I had tried to anticipate for our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reception in this new land, I had never in my wildest</div>
   <div class="paragraph">imaginings expected this.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Me? A monster?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think we've got problems. High Roller," Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said as she and Guido emerged from the brush at my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">side.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           39</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll say. Unless I'm reading the signs all wrong,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they're afraid of me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She heaved a great sigh and shook her head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's not what I'm talking about. Did you see their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">teeth?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I saw his," I said."The canines were long and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pointed. Pretty weird, huh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not all that weird, Hot Stuff. Think about it. My</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bet is that you were just talking to a couple of vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           41</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36301882" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36301884" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Five: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"To survive, one must be able to adapt to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">changing situations."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—TYRANNOSAURUS REX</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"VAMPIRES," I said carefully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure. It all fits." Massha nodded. "The pale skin,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the sharp fangs, the red eyeliner, the way they turned</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into bats...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Turned into bats?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You missed it. Boss," Guido supplied. "You were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lookin' behind you when they did it. Wildest thing I ever</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saw. One second they was runnin' for their lives, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the next they're flutterin' up into the dark. Are all the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">other dimensions like this?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Vampires...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Actually, my shock wasn't all that great. Realizing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the things Aahz and I had run into cruising the so-called</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"known and safe" dimensions, I had expected some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing a bit out of the ordinary in this one. If anything, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was a bit relieved. The second shoe had been dropped</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and it really wasn't all that bad! That is, it could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have been worse. (If hanging around with Aahz had</div>
  <div class="paragraph">40</div>
  <div class="paragraph">taught me anything, it was that things could always be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worse!) The repetitive nature of my conversational bril-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">liance was merely a clever ploy to cover my mental ef-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">forts to both digest this new bit of information and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">decide what to do with it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Vampires are rare in any dimension," my appren-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tice replied, stepping into the void to answer Guide's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">question. "What's more, they're pretty much feared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">universally. What I can't figure out is why those two</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were so scared of Skeeve here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then again," I said thoughtfully, "there's the ques-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion of whether or not we can safely assume the whole</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension is populated with beings like the two we just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">met. I know it's a long shot, but we might have run into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the only two vampires in the place."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I dunno. High Roller. They acted pretty much at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">home here, and they sure didn't think you'd find any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing unusual about their appearance. My guess is that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they're the norm and we're the exceptions around</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whatever," I said, reaching a decision at last,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"they're the only two examples we have to work with so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">far, so that's what we'll base our actions on until proven</div>
   <div class="paragraph">different."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So what do we do against a bunch of vampires?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As a bodyguard, Guido seemed a bit uneasy about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our assessment of the situation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Relax," I smiled. "The first order of business is to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turn on the old reliable disguise spell. Just a few quick</div>
   <div class="paragraph">touch-ups and they won't be able to tell us apart from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the natives. We could walk through a town of vampires</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and they'd never spot us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, I closed my eyes and went to work. Like I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">told the staff, this was going to be easy. Maintain</div>
   <div class="paragraph">everyone's normal appearance except for paler skin,</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">42</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           43</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">longer canines, and a little artful reddening of the eyes,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and the job was done.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay," I said, opening my eyes again. "What's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">next?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't like to quote you back at yourself. Hot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stuff," Massha drawled, "but didn't you say something</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about disguises being the first thing before we went any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">further?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course. That's why I just. .. wait a minute. Are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you trying to say we still have the same appearance as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before I cast the spell?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One of the problems with casting a disguise spell is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that as the caster, I can never see the effects. That is, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">see people as they really are whether the spell is on or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not. I had gotten so used to relying on the effects of this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">particular spell that it had never occurred to me that it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might not work.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha and Guido were looking at each other with no</div>
   <div class="paragraph">small degree of concern.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"ymmm ... maybe you forgot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Try again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right! This time remember to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hold it, you two," I ordered in my most com-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">manding tone. "From your reactions, I perceive that the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">answer to my questions is 'yes.' That is, that the spell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't work. Now just ease up a second and let me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think. Okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a change they listened to me and lapsed into a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">respectful silence. I might have taken a moment to savor</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the triumph if I wasn't so worried about the problem.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The disguise spell was one of the first spells I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">learned, and until now was one of my best and most</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reliable tools. If it wasn't working, something was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seriously wrong. Now I knew that stepping through the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">door hadn't lessened my knowledge of that particular</div>
  <div class="paragraph">spell, so that meant that if something was haywire, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would have to be in the....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Hot Stuff! Check the force lines!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Apparently my apprentice and I had reached the con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">clusion simultaneously. A quick magical scan of the sky</div>
   <div class="paragraph">overhead and the surrounding terrain confirmed my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worst fears. At first I thought there were no force lines</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at all. Then I realized that they were there, but so faint</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that it took nearly all of my reserve power just to detect</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's all this about force lines?" Guido de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">manded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha heaved an impatient sigh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you're going to run with this crowd. Dark and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deadly, you'd best start learning a little about the magic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">biz ... or at least the vocabulary. Force lines are invis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ible streams of energy that flow through the ground and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the air. They're the source of power we tap into when</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we do our bibbity-bobbity-boo schtick. That means that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in a land like this one, where the force lines are either</div>
   <div class="paragraph">non-existent or very weak...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">". .. you can't do squat," the bodyguard finished for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her. "Hey, Boss! If what she says is true, how come</div>
   <div class="paragraph">those two you just met could still do that bat-trick?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"By being very, very good in the magic department.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">To do so much with so little means they don't miss a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trick... pardon the pun ... in tapping and using force</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lines. In short, they're a lot better than either Massha or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me at the magic game."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That makes sense." Massha nodded. "In any di-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mension I've been in that had vampires, they were some</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of the strongest magic-slingers around. If this is what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they have to train on, I can see why they run hog-wild</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when they hit a dimension where the force lines are both</div>
   <div class="paragraph">plentiful and powerful."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">44 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I rubbed my forehead, trying desperately to think and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to forestall the headache I felt coming on. Right on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">schedule, things were getting worse!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't suppose you have anything in your jewelry</div>
   <div class="paragraph">collection that can handle disguises, do you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite our predicament, Massha gave a low laugh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think about it. High Roller. If I had anything that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could do disguises, would I walk around looking like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So we get to take on a world of hot-shot magic types</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with our own cover fire on low ammo," Guido sum-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">marized.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. So it'll be a little tougher than I thought at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first. Just remember my partner has been getting along</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty well these last few years without any powers at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Your partner is currently sitting in the hoosegow for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">murder," Guido said pointedly. "That's why we're here</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in the first place. Remember?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Besides," I continued, ignoring his comment (that's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">another skill I've learned from Aahz), "it's never been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our intention 'to take on the whole world.' All we want</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to do is perform a quick hit and run. Grab Aahz and get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back out with as little contact with the natives as pos-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sible. All this means is that we've got to be a little more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">careful. That's all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What about running down the trio we started out to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">retrieve?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I thought briefly about the blonde who had warned us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of Aahz's predicament.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's part of being more careful," I announced</div>
   <div class="paragraph">solemnly. "If ... I mean, when we get Aahz out of jail,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we'll head for home and count ourselves as lucky. So we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... pay off the Deveels. It's a ... cheap price to ... pay</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           45</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I realized the staff was looking at me a little askance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I also realized that my words had been gradually slow-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing to a painful broken delivery as I reached the part</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about paying off the Deveels.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I cleared my throat and tried again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm, let's just say we'll reappraise the situation</div>
   <div class="paragraph">once we've reached Aahz. Okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The troops still looked a little dubious, so I thought it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would be best if I pushed on to the next subject.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"As to the opposition, let's pool our knowledge of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vampires so we have an idea of what we're up against.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now, we know they can shapechange into bats or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dogs...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... or just into a cloud of mist," Massha supplied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They drink blood,'' Guido said grimly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They don't like bright light, or crosses...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and they can be killed by a stake through their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">heart or...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They drink blood."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enough with the drinking blood! Okay, Guido?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was starting to get more than a little annoyed with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my bodyguard's endless pessimism. I mean, none of us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was particularly pleased by the way things were going,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but there was nothing to be gained by dwelling on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">negatives.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Boss. I guess looking on the dark side of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">things gets to be a habit in my business."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Garlic!" Massha exclaimed suddenly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I said 'garlic'," she repeated. "Vampires don't like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">garlic!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right! How about it, Guido? Do you have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">any garlic along?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard actually looked embarrassed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can't stand the stuff," he admitted "The other</div>
  <div class="paragraph">46 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">boys in the Mob used to razz me about it, but it makes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me break out in a rash."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Terrific. We probably had the only Mob member in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">existence who was allergic to garlic. Another brilliant</div>
   <div class="paragraph">idea shot to hell.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," I said, heaving a sigh, "now we know what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we're up against."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... say. Hot Stuff?" Massha said softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"All kidding aside. Aren't we a little overmatched on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this one? I mean, Dark and Deadly here can hold up his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">end on the physical protection side, but I'm not sure my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">jewelry collection is going to be enough to cover us mag-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ically."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I appreciate the vote of confidence," Guido smiled</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sadly, "but I'm not sure my hardware is going to do us a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lick of good against vampires. With the Boss out of ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion on the magic side...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't count me out so fast. My magic may not be at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">full power, but I can still pull off a trick or two if things</div>
   <div class="paragraph">really get rough."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha frowned. "But the force lines...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's one little item I've omitted from your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lessons so far, apprentice," I said with a smug little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">grin. "It hasn't really been necessary what with the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">energy so plentiful on Deva ... as a matter of fact, I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">kind of gotten out of the habit myself. Anyway, what it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">boils down to is that you don't always tap into a force</div>
   <div class="paragraph">line to work magic. You can store the energy internally</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like a battery so that it's there when you need it. While</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we've been talking, I've been charging up, so I can pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vide a bit of magical cover as needed. Now, I won't be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">able to do anything prolonged like a constant disguise</div>
   <div class="paragraph">spell, and what I've got I'll want to use carefully</div>
   <div class="paragraph">because it'll take a while to recharge after each use, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we won't be relying on your jewelry completely."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           47</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had expected a certain amount of excitement from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the staff when they found out I wasn't totally helpless.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead, they looked uncomfortable. They exchanged</div>
   <div class="paragraph">glances, then looked at the sky, then at the ground.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... does this mean we're going on?" Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right," I said, lips tight. "In fact, I probably</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would have gone on even if my powers were completely</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gone. Somewhere out there my partner's in trouble, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm not going to back away from at least trying to help</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him. I'd do the same if it was one of you, but we're talk-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing about Aahz here. He's saved my skin more times</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than I care to remember. I can't just...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I caught myself and brought my voice back under</div>
   <div class="paragraph">control.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look," I said, starting again. "I'll admit we never</div>
   <div class="paragraph">expected this vampire thing when we started out, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the limited magic handicap is enough to give anyone</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pause. If either or both of you want to head back, you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can do it without hard feelings or guilt trips. Really. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only reason I'm pushing on is that I know me. Whatever</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is up ahead, it can't be any worse than what I would put</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself through if I left Aahz alone to die without trying</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my best to bail him out. But that's me. If you want out,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">go ahead."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't get your back up. Hot Stuff," Massha chided</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gently. "I'm still not sure how much help I'm going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be, but I'll tag along. I'd probably have the same prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lem if anything happened to you and I wasn't there, that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you'd have if anything happened to Aahz. I am your ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">prentice, you know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bodyguarding ain't much, but it's all I know,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido said glumly. "I'm supposed to be guardin' that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">body of yours, so where it goes, I go. I'm just not wild</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about the odds, know what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">48 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then it's settled," I said firmly. "All right. As I see</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it, our next stop is Blut."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Blut," Massha echoed carefully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. I want to look up this Dispatcher</div>
   <div class="paragraph">character and see what he has to say. I mean, a town is a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">town, and we've all visited strange towns before. What</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we really need now is information, and the nearest</div>
   <div class="paragraph">source seems to be Blut."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Dispatcher," Massha said without enthusi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">asm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Blut," Guido repeated with even less joyful an-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ticipation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It occurred to me that while my assistants were bound</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and determined to stay with me on this caper, if I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wanted wholehearted support, I'd better look for it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from the natives... a prospect I didn't put much hope</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in at all.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36302969" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36302971" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Six: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"An agent is a vampire with a tele-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">phone!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—ANY EDITOR</div>
  <div class="paragraph">REMEMBER how I said that if you've seen one town,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you've seen 'em all? Well, forget it. Even though I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">visited a lot of dimensions and seen a lot of towns, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to admit that Blut looked a little strange.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Everything seemed to be done to death in basic black.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">(Perhaps "done to death" is an unfortunate turn of a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">phrase. Whatever.) Mind you, when I say everything, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean everything. Cobblestones, walls, roof tiles, every-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing had the same uninspired color scheme. Maybe by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">itself the black overtones wouldn't have seemed too</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ominous, if it weren't for the architectural decorations</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that seemed to abound everywhere you looked. Stone</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragons and snakes adorned every roof peak and ledge,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">along with the inescapable gargoyles and, of course,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bats. I don't mean "bats" here, I mean "BATS"!!! Big</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bats, little bats, bats with their wings half open and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">others with their wings spread wide... BATS!!! The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only thing they all seemed to have in common (besides</div>
  <div class="paragraph">49</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">50 MYTH-ING PERSONS 51</div>
  <div class="paragraph">being black) was mouths full of needle-sharp teeth...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an image which did nothing to further the confidence of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my already nervous party. I myself felt the tension in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">creasing as we strode down the street under the noses of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">those fierce adornments. One almost expected the stone</div>
   <div class="paragraph">figures to come to life and swoop down on us for a pint</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or two of dinner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Cheerful sort of place, isn't it?" Massha asked, eye-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing the rooftops,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't like to complain, Boss," Guido put in, lyings</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blatantly, "but I've been in friendlier-looking grave-;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">yards."                                             |</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Will you both keep your mouths shut!" I snarled,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">speaking as best I could through tightly pressed lips.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember our disguises."                        J</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had indeed turned on my disguise spell as we entered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">town, but in an effort to conserve magical energy, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only turned our eyes red. If any of the others on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">street, and there were lots of them, happened to spot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our non-vampirish teeth, the balloon would go up once</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and for all. Then again, maybe not. We still hadn't;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">figured out why the couple we met on the road had been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">so afraid of me, but I wasn't about to bank the success</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of our mission on anything as flimsy as a hope that the |</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whole town would run at the sight of our undisguised</div>
   <div class="paragraph">features.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Fortunately, I didn't have to do any magical tinkering'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with our wardrobe. If anything, we were a little drab</div>
   <div class="paragraph">compared to most of the vampires on the street. Though</div>
   <div class="paragraph">most of them appeared rather young, barely older than</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me, they came in all shapes and sizes, and were decked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out in some of the most colorful and outrageous garb it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">has ever been my misfortune to encounter as they;</div>
  <div class="paragraph">shouted to each other or wove their way in and out of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">taverns along the street.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was night now, the clouds having cleared enough to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">show a star-studded night sky, and true to their billing,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vampires seemed to love the night life.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If everybody here is vampires," Guido said, ignor-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing my warning, "how do they find anybody to bite for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blood?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"As far as I can tell," Massha answered, also choos-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing to overlook the gag order, "they buy it by the bot-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tle."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She pointed to a small group of vampires sitting on a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">low wall merrily passing a bottle of red liquid back and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">forth among themselves. Despite our knowledge of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">area, I had subconsciously assumed they were drinking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wine. Confronted by the inescapable logic that the stuff</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they were drinking was typed, not aged, my stomach did</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a fast roll and dip to the right.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you two are through sightseeing," I hissed, "let's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">try to find this Dispatcher character before someone in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vites us to join them for a drink."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, I led off my slightly subdued assistants,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nodding and waving at the merrymaking vampires as we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">went. Actually, the goings on looked like a lot of fun,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and I might have been tempted to join in, if it weren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for the urgency of our quest....nd, of course, the fact</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that they were vampires.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Following the instructions I had gleaned from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">couple on the road before their panicky flight, we found</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Dispatcher's place with no problem. Leaving Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">outside as a lookout, Massha and I braved the stairs and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">entered the Dispatcher's office.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As strange as Blut had appeared, it hadn't prepared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me for the room we stepped into.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were hundreds of glass pictures lining the walls,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pictures which depicted moving, living things much like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">looking into a rack of fishbowls. What was more, the</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">52 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">images being displayed were of incredible violence and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unspeakable acts being performed on seemingly helpless</div>
   <div class="paragraph">victims. The overall effect was neither relaxing nor</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pleasant... definitely not something I'd want on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wall at home.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was so entranced by the pictures, I almost missed the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dispatcher himself until he rose from his desk. Perhaps</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"rose" is the wrong description. What he actually did</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was hop down to the floor from his chair which was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">high to begin with, but made higher by the addition of a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pillow to the seat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He strode forward, beaming widely, with his hand ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tended for a handshake.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hi there Vilhelm's the name Your problem is my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">problem Don't sit down Standing problems I solve for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">free Sitting problems I charge for Reasonable rates Just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a minor percentage off the top What can I do for you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was sort of all one sentence in that he didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pause for breath. He did, however, seize my hand,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pump it twice, then repeated the same procedure with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha, then grabbed my hand again ... all before he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stopped talking.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">All in all, it was a little overpowering. I had a flash</div>
   <div class="paragraph">impression of a short, stocky character with plump rosy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cheeks and a bad case of the fidgets. I had deliberately</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tried not to speculate on what the Dispatcher would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">look like, but a cherub vampire still caught me a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off-guard.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I... ummm... how did you know I have a prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lem?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That earned me an extra squeeze of the hand and a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wink.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nobody comes in here unless they've got a prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lem," he said, finally slowing down his speech a bit. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean, I could always use a bit of help, but does anyone</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           5B</div>
  <div class="paragraph">leap forward to lend a hand? Fat chance. Seems like the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only time I see another face in the flesh is when it means</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more work for me. Prove me wrong... please! Tell me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you came in here to take over for an hour or so to let me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">duck out for a bite to drink."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, actually, we've got a problem and we were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">told....,"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"See! What did I tell you? All right. What have you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">got? A standing or a sitting problem? Standing prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lems I handle for...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was off again. In a desperate effort to keep our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">visit short, I interrupted his pitch.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're looking for a friend who...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say no more! A friend! Just a second!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that he vaulted back into his chair, grabbed the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">top off a strange-looking appliance on his desk, diddled</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with it briefly, then started talking into it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yea Darwin? Vilhelm. I need ... sure...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Leaning back in his chair, he tucked the gadget under</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one side of his head and grabbed another.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is Vilhelm, Is Kay around? ... Well, put her on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when she's done...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The second gadget slid in under the same ear as the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first and he reached for yet another.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know I shouldn't ask this," I murmured to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha, "but what's he doing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Those are telephones," she whispered back as a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fourth instrument came into play. "You talk into one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">end of it and whoever's at the other end can hear you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and talk back. It beats running all over town to find an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">answer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By this time, the little vampire had so many instru-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ments hung from his shoulders and arms he looked like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he was being attacked by a nest of snakes. He seemed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be handling it well, though, talking first into one, then</div>
  <div class="paragraph">54 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">another, apparently keeping multiple conversations</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going at once like a juggler handles a basket full of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">balls.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Gee, that's kind of neat!" I exclaimed. "Do you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think we could get some of these for our place at the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bazaar?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Believe me, they're more trouble than they're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worth," Massha said. "In nothing flat you find you're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">spending all your time on the phone talking to people</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and not accomplishing anything. Besides, ever since</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they broke up the corporation...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think I've got it!" Vilhelm announced, jumping</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down to floor-level again. "I've got one friend for you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">definite, but to be honest with you he's only so-so. I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">got call-backs coming on two others, so let's see what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they're like before you commit on the definite. Okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm ... I think there's some kind of mistake</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here," I said desperately, trying to stop the madness</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before it progressed any further. "I'm not trying to find</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a new friend. I'm trying to locate a friend I already have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who may be here in town.''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He blinked several times as this news sank in. He</div>
   <div class="paragraph">started to turn back to his phones in an involuntary mo-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion, then waved a hand at them in disgusted dismissal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Heck with it," he said with a sigh. "If they can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">come up with anything, I can always fob 'em off on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">someone else for a profit. Now then, let's try this again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You're looking for someone specific. Are they a townie</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or a transient? It would help if you gave me a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something to go on, you know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He seemed a little annoyed, and I would have liked to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">do or say something to cheer him up. Before I could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think of anything, however, my apprentice decided to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">join the conversation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is quite a layout you've got, Fast Worker.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           55</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mind if I ask exactly what it is you do?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As always, Massha's "people sense" proved to be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">better than mine. The little vampire brightened notice-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ably at the compliment, and his chest puffed out as he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">launched into his narration.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, the job was originally billed as Dispatcher...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you know, as in Dispatcher of Nightmares. But anyway,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like any job, it turned out to involve a lot of things that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">aren't on the job description. Now it's sort of a com-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bination of dispatcher, travel agent, lost and found, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">missing persons bureau."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nightmares?" I questioned, unable to contain my-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">self.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Anything that comes out of Limbo, be it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dreams or the real thing, comes through here. Where're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you from that you didn't know that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Obviously, I wasn't wild about continuing on the sub-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ject of our place of origin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ahhh, can you really help us find our friend? He's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">new in town, like us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. You're looking for someone. Sorry. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get a little carried away sometimes when I talk about my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">work. New in town, hmmm? Shouldn't be that hard to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locate. We don't get that many visitors."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He might be in jail," Massha blurted out before I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">realized what she was going to say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"In jail?" The vampire frowned. "The only outsider</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in jail right now is. ... Say! Now I recognize you! The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">eyes threw me for a minute. You're Skeeve, aren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Screen 97B!" he declared proudly, gesturing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vaguely over his shoulder. "There's someone a dozen</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimensions over from here, runs a hot dog stand, who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">features you in his most frequent nightmares. You, a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragon, and a Pervert. Am I correct in assuming that</div>
  <div class="paragraph">56 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the current resident in our fair jail is none other than</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your sidekick Aahz?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"To be correct, that's Pervect, not Pervert... but ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cept for that you're right. That's my partner you've got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locked up there, and we aim to get him out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was probably talking too much, but being recog-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nized in a dimension I'd never heard of had thrown me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off balance. Then again, the Dispatcher didn't seem all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that hostile at the discovery. More curious than any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing else.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, well. Skeeve himself. I never expected to meet</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you in person. Sometime you must tell me what you did</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to that poor fellow to rate the number-one slot on his hit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">parade of nightmares."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What about Aahz?'' I said impatiently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know he's up for murder, don't you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Heard it. Don't believe it. He's a lot of things, but a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">murderer isn't one of them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's a fair amount of evidence." Vilhelm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shrugged. "But tell me. What's with the vampire get-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up. You're no more a vampire than I'm a Klahd."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a long story. Let's just say it seemed to be the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">local uniform."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let's not," the dispatcher grinned. "Pull up a chair</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... free of charge, of course. I've got time and lots of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">questions about the other dimensions. Maybe we can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trade a little information while you're here."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36303959" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36303961" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Seven: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"I don't see anything thrilling about it!""</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—M. JACKSON</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I really don't see how you can drink that stuff," I de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">clared, eyeing Vilhelm's goblet of blood.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Funny," he smiled in return, "I was about to say</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the same thing. I mean, you know what W. C. Fields</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said about water!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now let me get this straight," Guido interrupted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before I could get any answer. "You're sayin' you vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pire guys don't really drink blood from people?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, a few do," the Dispatcher said with a shrug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But it's an acquired taste, like steak tartare. Some say</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it's a gourmet dish, but I could never stand the stuff</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself. I'll stick with the inexpensive domestic varieties</div>
   <div class="paragraph">any night."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We were all sprawled around the Dispatcher's office</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at this point, sipping our respective drinks and getting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into a pretty good rap session. We had pulled Guido in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off door watch and I had dropped our disguises so my</div>
  <div class="paragraph">57</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">58 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 59</div>
  <div class="paragraph">energy reserve wasn't being drained.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Dispatcher had played with his phones, calling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from one to the other. Then he put them all down and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">announced that he had them on "hold," a curious ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pression since it was the first time in half an hour he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hadn't been holding one.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Vilhelm himself was turning out to be a priceless</div>
   <div class="paragraph">source of information, and, as promised, had a seem-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ingly insatiable curiosity about otherworldly things.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then how do you account for all the vampire leg-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ends around the other dimensions," Massha said skepti-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cally.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Dispatcher made a face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"First of all, you've got to realize who you're dealing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with. Most of the ones who do extensive touring outside</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of Limbo are 'old money' types. We're talking about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the idle rich ... and that usually equates to bored thrill-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seekers. Working stiffs like me can't afford to take that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">kind of time away from our jobs. Heck, I can hardly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">manage to get my two weeks each year. Anyway, there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are a lot more of us around the dimensions than you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might realize. It's just that the level-headed ones are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">content to maintain a low profile and blend with the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">natives. They content themselves with the blood of do-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mestic livestock, much the way we do here at home. It's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the others that cause the problems. Like any group of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tourists, there's always a few who feel that just because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they're in another world or city, the rules don't apply</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and that includes common manners and good taste.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They're the ones who stir up trouble by getting the lo-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cals up in arms about 'bloodsucking monsters.' If it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">makes you feel any better, you human types have a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty bad rep yourselves here in Limbo."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That caught my attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Could you elaborate on that last point, Vilhelm?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What problem could the locals have with us?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Dispatcher laughed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The same one you humans have with us vampires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While humans aren't the leading cause of death in vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires any more than vampires are a leading cause of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">death in humans, it's certainly one of the more publi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cized and sensational ways to go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is that why the first locals we met took off like bats</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out of hell... if you'll pardon the expression?" Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've got it. I think you'll find that the citizens of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blut will react the same way to you that you would if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you ran into a vampire in your home dimension."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't notice you bein' particularly scared of us,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido said suspiciously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One of the few advantages of this job. After a few</div>
   <div class="paragraph">years of. monitoring the other dimensions, you get pretty</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blase about demons. As far as I can tell, most of 'em are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">no worse than some of the folks we've got around</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This was all very interesting, but I was getting a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fidgety about our mission.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Since you know we aren't all evil or on a permanent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vampire hunt, what can you tell us about the mess Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is in? Can you give us any help there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I dunno," the Dispatcher said, rubbing his jaw</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thoughtfully. "Until I found out who he was, I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ready to believe he was guilty as sin. There's an awful</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lot of evidence against him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Such as?" I pressed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, he was caught with a stake and mallet in his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hand, and there are two eyewitnesses who say they saw</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him kill one of our citizens and scatter his dust to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">winds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute. You mean you ain't got no corpus</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">60</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           61</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">delecti?" Guido said, straightening in his chair. "Sorry</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to interrupt. Boss, but you're playin* in my alley now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This is somethin' I know a little about. You can't go on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trial for murder without a corpse, know what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe where you come from," Vilhelm corrected,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"but things get a little different when you're dealing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with vampires. If we had a body, or even just the pile of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dust, we could revive him in no time flat. As it is, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">problem is when there's no body... when a vampire's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been reduced to dust and the dust scattered. That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when it's impossible to pull 'em back into a functional</div>
  <div class="paragraph">mode."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But if there isn't a body, how do you know the vic-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tim is dead at all? " I asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's the rub," Vilhelm agreed. "But in this case,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">there's a matter of two eyewitnesses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Two of 'em, eh?" Massha murmured thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Would you happen to have descriptions of these two</div>
  <div class="paragraph">peepers?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Saw 'em myself. They were both off-worlders like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yourselves. One was a young girl, the blonde and inno-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cent type. The other was a pretty sleazy-looking guy. It</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was her who sold us on the story, really. I don't think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anyone would have believed him if he said that were-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">wolves were furry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My heart sank. I had wanted very badly to believe the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">girl who had warned us of Aahz's danger was somehow</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an innocent bystander in the proceedings. Now it looked</div>
  <div class="paragraph">as if....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do the descriptions sound familiar, Hot Stuff? Still</div>
  <div class="paragraph">think Guido and I were being paranoid when we said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this might be a set-up? Sounds like they framed your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner, then came back after you to complete the set."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I avoided her eyes, staring hard at the wall monitors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There might be another explanation, you know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My apprentice gave out a bark of laughter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If there is, I'm dying to hear it. Face it, High Roller,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">any way you look at it the situation stinks. If they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cooked up a frame that tight on Green and Scaly on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">such short notice, I'm dying to see what kind of a trap</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they've got waiting for you now that they've had time to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get ready before inviting you to step in."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It occurred to me that I had never been that mouthy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when I was an apprentice. It also occurred to me that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">now I understood why Aahz had gotten so angry on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rare occasions when I had voiced an opinion ... and the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rarer times when I was right.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think I missed a lap in this conversation some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">where." Vilhelm frowned. "I take it you know the wit-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nesses?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha proceeded to bring the Dispatcher up to date,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with Guido growling counterpoint to the theme. For</div>
   <div class="paragraph">once I was glad to let them do the talking. It gave me a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">chance to collect my scattered thoughts and try to for-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mulate a plan. When they finished, I still had a long way</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to go on both counts.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I must admit, viewed from the light of this new in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">formation, the whole thing does sound a little suspi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cious," the vampire said thoughtfully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A little suspicious!" Massha snorted. "It's phonier</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than a smiling Deveel!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell ya what," Guido began, "just give us a few</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minutes alone with these witnesses of yours and we'll</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shake the truth out of'em."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid that will be a little difficult," the Dis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">patcher said, eyeing the ceiling. "You see, they haven't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been around for a while. Disappeared right after the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trial."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">62 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The trial!?" I snapped, abandoning my efforts to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">collect my wits. "You mean the trial's already been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">held?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The vampire nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. Needless to say, your friend was found</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guilty."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why do I get the feeling he didn't get a suspended</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sentence for a first offense?" Guido growled under his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">breath.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"As a matter of fact, he's been slated for execution at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the end of the week," Vilhelm admitted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That got me out of my seat and pacing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've got to do something," I said needlessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How about it, Vilhelm? Can you help us out at all?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Any chance of getting the verdict reversed or at least a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stay of execution?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid not. Character witnesses alone wouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">change anything, and as for new evidence, it would only</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be your word against the existing witnesses... and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you've already admitted the defendant is a friend of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yours. Mind you, / believe you, but there are those who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would suspect you'd say anything or fabricate any kind</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of tale tosave your partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But can you personally give us a hand?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, I can't," the vampire said, turning away. "You</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all seem like real nice folks, and your friend is probably</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the salt of the earth, but I have to live here and deal with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">these people for a long time. If I sided with outsiders</div>
   <div class="paragraph">against the town legal system, my whole career would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">go down the drain whether I was right or not. It's not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty and I don't like it, but that's the way things are."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We could fix it so you like it a lot less!" Guido said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">darkly, reaching into his coat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stop it, Guido," I ordered. "Let's not forget the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">help Vilhelm's already given us. It's a lot more than we</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           63</div>
  <div class="paragraph">expected to get when we first came into this dimension,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">so don't go making enemies out of the only friend we*ve</div>
   <div class="paragraph">got locally. Okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard sank back into his chair, muttering</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something I was just as glad I didn't hear, but his hand</div>
   <div class="paragraph">came out of his coat empty and stayed in sight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So what do we do now. Hot Stuff?" Massha sighed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The only thing I can think of is to try to locate those</div>
   <div class="paragraph">witnesses before the execution date," I said. "What I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can't figure is how to go about looking without getting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">half the town down on our necks."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What we really need is a bloodhound," Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, that's not a bad idea!" Vilhelm exclaimed,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">coming to life. "Maybe I can help you after all!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You got a bloodhound?" the bodyguard said, rais-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing his eyebrows.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Even better," the vampire declared. "I don't know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">why I didn't think of it before. The ones you need to get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in touch with are the Woof Writers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I studied him-carefully to see if this were some kind of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">joke.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Woof Writers?" I repeated at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's what we in Blut call them behind their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">backs. Actually, they're a husband-wife team of were-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wolves who are on a big crusade to raise sympathy for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">humans."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Werewolves," I said carefully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure. We got all kinds here in Limbo. Anyway, if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anyone in this dimension will be willing to stick their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">necks out for you, they're the ones. They do their own</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing and don't really give a hang what any of the other</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locals think about it. Besides, werewolves are second to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">none when it comes to sniffing out a trail."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Werewolves."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">64 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Vilhelmcocked his head at me curiously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Am I imagining things, Skeeve, or didn't you just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">say that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's more," Massha smiled sweetly, "he'll prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ably say it again. It bears repeating."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Werewolves," I said again, just to support my ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">prentice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Boss," Guido began, "I don't want to say this, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nobody said anything about werewolves when we...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good," I interrupted brusquely. "You don't want</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to say it, and I don't want to hear it. Now that we're in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">agreement, let's just pass on it and...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Boss! We can't team up with werewolves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guido, we just went over this. We're in a tight spot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and in a strange dimension. We can't afford to be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">choosy about our allies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't understand. Boss. I'm allergic to 'em!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I sank down into a chair and hid my face in my hands.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were allergic to garlic," I said through</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my fingers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That. too," the bodyguard said. "But mostly I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">allergic to furry things like kitties or fur coats or...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... or werewolves," Massha finished for him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Frankly, Dark and Deadly, one starts to wonder how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you've been able to function effectively all these years."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, it doesn't come up all that often, know what I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean?" Guido argued defensively. "How many times</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have .you been attacked by somethin' furry?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not as often as I'd like!" Massha leered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enough, you two," I ordered, raising my head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guido, have you ever actually been near a werewolf?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, no. But...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then until we know for sure, we'll assume you're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not allergic to them. Okay? Vilhelm, exactly where do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we find these Woof Writers of yours?"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36305005" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36305007" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Eight: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"First, let's decide who's leading and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who's following."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—F. ASTAIRE</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"BOSS, just where the hell is Pahkipsee?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I found myself wondering if all bodyguards spent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">most of their time complaining, or if I had just gotten</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lucky.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look, Guido. You were there and heard the same</div>
   <div class="paragraph">instructions I did. If Vilhelm was right, it should be just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up the road here a couple more miles."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... 'a rather dead bedroom community, fit only for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">those not up to the fast-lane life-style of the big city,' "</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha quoted in a close imitation of the vampire's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">voice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido snickered rudely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why do I get the feeling you didn't particularly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">warm to Vilhelm, Massha?" I suppressed a grin of my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">own.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe it's because he's the only guy we've met she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hasn't made a pass at?" Guido suggested.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Massha favored him with an extended tongue and</div>
  <div class="paragraph">65</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">66 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">crossed eyes before answering.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Vilhelm's okay," she said. "Kinda cute, too</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... at least the top of his head was. And he did admit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that in general vampires were more partial to cities and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">parties while werewolves preferred the back-to-nature</div>
   <div class="paragraph">atmosphere of rural living. I just didn't like the crack,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that's all. I grew up on a farm, you know. Country</div>
   <div class="paragraph">breakfasts have a lot to do with my current panoramic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">physique. Besides, something inside says you shouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trust a smiling vampire. ... or at least you shouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trust him too far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had been about to mention the fact that I had grown</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up on a farm, too, but withheld the information. Obvi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ously, farm food hadn't particularly affected my phy-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sique, and I didn't want to rob my apprentice of her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">excuse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If he had wanted to do us harm, all he would have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had to do was blow the whistle on us while we were still</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in town," I pointed out. "Let's just take things at face</div>
   <div class="paragraph">value and assume he was really being as nice as he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seemed ... for all our peace of minds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I wished I was as confident as I sounded. We were a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">long way out in the boondocks, and if Vilhelm had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wanted to send us off on a wild goose chase, he couldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have picked a better direction to start us off in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, well I'd feel a lot better if we weren't being</div>
   <div class="paragraph">followed," Guido grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stopped in my tracks. So did Massha ... in her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tracks, that is. The bodyguard managed to stumble into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">us before bringing his own forward progress to a halt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it, Boss? Something wrong?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"For a minute there, I thought I heard you say that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were being followed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Since we left the Dispatcher's. Why does. ..</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you mean you didn't know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           67</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I resisted an impulse to throttle him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, Guido. I didn't know. You see, my bodyguard</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't tell me. He was too busy complaining about the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">road conditions to have time to mention anything as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trivial as someone following us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido took a few shaky steps backward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey! C'mon, Boss. Don't be like that. I thought</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you knew! Honest. Whoever's back there isn't doin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">such a hot job of hiding the fact that they're dogging</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our trail. Any idiot could've spotted ... I mean...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Keep going, Dark and Deadly," Massha urged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're digging yourself in further with every word, in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">case you hadn't noticed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With great effort I brought myself back under con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trol.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whatever," I said. "I don't suppose you have any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">idea who it is?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Naw. There's only one of 'em. Unless...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His voice trailed off into silence and he looked sud-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">denly worried.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Out with it, Guido. Unless what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, sometimes when you're getting really tricky</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about tailing someone, you put one real clumsy punk</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out front so's they can be spotted while you keep your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">real ace-hitter hidden. I hadn't stopped to think of that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before. This turkey behind us could be a decoy, know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you used decoys for ducks, not turkeys,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha scowled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, if that's what's happening, then we're sitting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ducks, if it makes you feel any better."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Could both of you just be quiet for a few minutes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and let me think?" I said, suddenly impatient with their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">banter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe it isn't so bad," Guido said in a doubt-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">68</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           69</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">ful voice. "I'm pretty sure I would have spotted the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back-up team if there was one."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh sure," Massha sneered. "Coming out of a town</div>
   <div class="paragraph">full of vampires that can change themselves into mist</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whenever they want. Of course you'd spot them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. The Boss here can chew on me if he wants, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't have to take that from you. You didn't even spot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the turkey, remember?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The only turkey I can see is... ."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enough!" I ordered, having arrived at a decision</div>
   <div class="paragraph">despite their lack of cooperation. "We have to find out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for sure who's behind us and what they want. This is as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">good a place as any, so I suggest we all retire into the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bushes and wait for our shadow to catch up with us. ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, Massha. I'll be over here with Guido. You take the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">other side of the road."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That portion of my plan had less to do with military</div>
   <div class="paragraph">strategy than with an effort on my part to preserve what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little was left of my nerves. I figured the only way to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shut the two of them up was to separate them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Boss," Guido whispered as we crouched</div>
   <div class="paragraph">side by side in the brush. "I keep forgettin' that you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">aren't as into crime as the boys I usually run with."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Well, I had been half right. Massha on the other side</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of the road was being quiet, but as long as he had some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one to talk to, Guido was going to keep on expressing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his thoughts and opinions. I was starting to understand</div>
   <div class="paragraph">why Don Bruce insisted on doing all the talking when</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the bodyguards were around. Encouraging employees to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">speak up as equals definitely had its drawbacks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Will you keep your voice down?" I tried once more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"This is supposed to be an ambush."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry about that. Boss. It'll be a while be-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fore they catch up, and when they do, I'll hear 'em be-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fore. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Isthatyou.Skeeve?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The voice came from the darkness just up the road.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I gave Guido my darkest glare, and he rewarded it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with an apologetic shrug that didn't look particularly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sincere to me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then it dawned on me where I had heard that voice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right here," I said, rising from my crouch and step-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ping onto the road. "We've been waiting for you. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think it's about time we had a little chat."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aside from covering my embarrassment over having</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been discovered, that had to be my best understatement</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in quite a while. The last time I had seen this particular</div>
   <div class="paragraph">person, she was warning me about Aahz's imprison-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good." She stepped forward to meet me. "That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">why I've been following you. I was hoping we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her words stopped abruptly as Guido and Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rose from the bushes and moved to join us.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, look who's here," Massha said, flashing one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of her less pleasant smiles.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If it isn't the little bird who sang to the vampires,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido leered, matching my apprentice's threatening</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tone.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The girl favored them with a withering glance, then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">faced me again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was hoping we could talk alone. I've got a lot to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">say and not much time to say it. It would go faster if we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">weren't interrupted."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not a chance, Sweetheart," Guido snarled. "I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not goin' to let the Boss out of my sight with you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... besides which, I've got a few things to tell you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself," Massha added, "like what I think of folks who</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">70</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 71</div>
  <div class="paragraph">think frames look better on people than on paintings."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The girl's eyes never left mine. For all her bravado, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thought I could detect in their depths an appeal for help.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Please," she said softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I fought a brief skirmish in my mind, and, as usual,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">common sense lost.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT! C'mon, Boss. You can't let her get you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alone! If her pals are around...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hot Stuff, if I have to sit on you. you aren't going</div>
  <div class="paragraph">to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look!" I said, wrenching my eyes away from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">girl to confront my mutinous staff. "We'll only go a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">few steps down the road there, in plain sight. If any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing happens you'll be able to pitch in before it gets</div>
   <div class="paragraph">serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and you certainly can't think she's going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">jump me. I mean, it's a cinch she isn't carrying any con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cealed weapons."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was a fact. She had changed outfits since the last</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time I saw her, probably to fit in more with the exotic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">garb favored by the party-loving vampires. She was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wearing what I've heard referred to as a "tank top"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">which left her midsection and navel delightfully ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posed, and the open-sided skirt (if you can call two flaps</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of cloth that) showed her legs up past her hips. If she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had a weapon with her, she had swallowed it. Either</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that, or....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I dragged my thoughts back to the argument.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The fact of the matter is that she isn't going to talk</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in front of a crowd. Now, am I going to get a chance to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hear another viewpoint about what's going on, or are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we going to keep groping around for information with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz's life hanging in the balance?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My staff fell silent and exchanged glances, each wait-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing for the other to risk the next blast.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, okay," Massha agreed at last. "But watch</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yourself, Hot Stuff. Remember, poison can come in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty bottles."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">So, under the ever-watchful glares of my assistants, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">retired a few steps down the road for my first words</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alone with....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, what is your name, anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hmmm? Oh. I'm Luanna. Say, thanks for backing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me up. That's a pretty mean-looking crew you hang</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around with. I had heard you had a following, but I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hadn't realized how nasty they were."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, they're okay once you get to know them. If you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worked with them on a day-to-day basis, you'd find out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that they... heck, none of us are really as dangerous or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">effective as the publicity hype cuts us out to be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly aware of her eyes on me. Her expres-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sion was strange ... sort of a bitter half-smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've always heard that really powerful people tended</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to understate what they can do, that they don't have to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brag. I never really believed it until now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I really didn't know what to say to that. I mean, my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reputation had gotten big enough that I was starting to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get used to being recognized and talked about at the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bazaar, but what she was displaying was neither fear</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nor envy. Among my own set of friends, admiration or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">praise was always carefully hidden within our own</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brand of rough humor or teasing. Faced with the undi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">luted form of the same thing, I was at a loss as to how to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">respond.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm, what was it you wanted to talk to me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her expression fell and she dropped her eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is so embarrassing. Please be patient with me,</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">72              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">73</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Skeeve ... is it all right if I call you Skeeve? I haven't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had much experience with saying 'I'm sorry'... heck, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">haven't had much experience with people at all. Just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partners and pigeons. Now that I'm here, I really don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know what to say."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why don't we start at the beginning?" I wanted to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ease her discomfort. "Did you really swindle the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deveels back at the Bazaar?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Luanna nodded slowly without raising her eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what we do. Matt and me. That and running,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">even though I think sometimes we're better at running</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than working scams. Maybe if we were better at conning</div>
   <div class="paragraph">people, we wouldn't get so much practice at running."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her words thudded at me like a padded hammer. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had wanted very badly to hear that she was innocent and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that it had all been a mistake. I mean, she was so pretty,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">so sweet, I would have bet my life that she was innocent,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yet here she was openly admitting her guilt to me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But why?" I managed at last. "I mean, how did you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get involved in swindling people to begin with?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her soft shoulders rose and fell in a helpless shrug.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. It seemed like a good idea when Matt</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first explained it to me. I was dying to get away from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">farm, but I didn't know how to do anything but farm-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">work for a living... until Matt explained to me how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easy it was to get money away from people by playing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on their greed. 'Promise them something for nothing,'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he said, 'or for so little that they think they're swindling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you.' When he put it that way, it didn't seem so bad. It</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was more a matter of being smart enough to trick people</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who thought they were taking advantage of you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... by selling them magical items that weren't." I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finished for her. "Tell me, why didn't you just go into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the magic trade for real?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her head came up, and I caught a quick flash of fire</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in her sad blue eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We didn't know any magic, so we had to fake it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You probably can't understand that, since you're the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">real McCoy. I knew that the first time I saw you at Pos-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sletum. We were going to try to fake our way into the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Court Magician spot until you showed up and flashed a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bit of real magic at the crown. Even Matt had to admit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that we were outclassed, and we kind of faded back be-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fore anyone asked us to show what we could do. I think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it was then that I...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She broke off, giving me a startled, guilty look as if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she had been about to say something she shouldn't.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go on," I urged, my curiosity piqued.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's nothing, really," she said hastily. "Now it's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your turn. Since I've told you my story, maybe you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">won't mind me asking how you got started as a magi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cian."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That set me back a bit. Like her, I had been raised on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a farm. I had run away, though, planning to seek my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fortune as a master thief, and it was only my chance</div>
   <div class="paragraph">meeting with my old teacher Garkin and eventually</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz that had diverted my career goals toward magic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In hindsight, my motives were not discernibly better</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than hers, but I didn't want to admit it just now. I kind</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of liked the way she looked at me while laboring under</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the illusion that I was someone noble and special.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's too long a tale to go into just now," I said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brusquely. "There are still a few more answers I'd like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from you. How come you used our place as a getaway</div>
   <div class="paragraph">route f rom Deva?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, that was Vic's idea. We teamed up with him just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before we started working our con at the Bazaar. When</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it looked like the scam was starting to turn sour, he said</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">74 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 75</div>
  <div class="paragraph">he knew a way-off dimension that no one would be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">watching. Matt and I didn't even know it was your place</div>
   <div class="paragraph">until your doorman asked if we were there to see you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Matt was so scared about having to tangle with you that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he wanted to forget the whole thing and find another</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way out, but Vic showed us the door and it looked so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easy we just went along with him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course, it never occurred to you that we'd get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stuck with the job of trying to bring you back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You better believe it occurred to us. I mean, we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't think you'd have to do it. We expected you'd be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mad at us for getting you involved and come after us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yourself. Vic kept saying that we shouldn't worry, that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">if you found us here in Limbo he could fix it so you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wouldn't be able to take us back. I didn't know he was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thinking about setting up a frame until he sprang it on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tried to let this console me, but it didn't work.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I notice that once you found out that Aahz was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being framed, you still went along with it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well... I didn't want to, but Vic kept saying that if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you two were as good as everyone said, that your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner could get out of jail by himself. We figured that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he'd escape before the execution, but with the whole</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension hunting him as a fugitive that he'd be too</div>
   <div class="paragraph">busy running for home to bother about catching us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was starting to get real anxious to meet this guy Vic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It also occurred to me that of all the potential problems</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our growing reputation could bring down on us, this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was one we had never expected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And you believed him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Luanna made a face, then shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well... you're supposed to be able to do some</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty incredible things, and I don't want you to think I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't believe in your abilities, but I was worried enough</div>
  <div class="paragraph">that I sneaked back to let you know what was going on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">.. .just in case."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was almost funny that she was apologizing for giv-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing us the warning. Almost, but not quite. My mind</div>
   <div class="paragraph">kept running over what might have happened if she had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">believed in me completely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I guess my only other question is who is this citizen</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that Aahz is supposed to have killed?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Didn't anybody tell you?" she blinked. "It's Vic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He's from this dimension... you know, a vampire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, he's hiding out until the whole thing's resolved</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one way or another. I don't think even Matt knows</div>
   <div class="paragraph">where he is. Vampires are normally suspicious, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">after I sneaked out the first time, he's even gotten cagey</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around us. He just drops in from time to time to see</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how we're doing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now I knew I wanted to meet friend Vic. If I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lucky, I'd meet him before Aahz did.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, I do appreciate you filling me in on the prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lem. Now, if you'll just come back to Blut with us and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">explain things to the authorities, my gratitude will be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">complete."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Luanna started as if I had stuck her with a pin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hold on a minute! Who said anything about going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to the authorities? I can't do that! That would be dou-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blecrossing my partners. I don't want to see you or your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends get hurt, but I can't sacrifice my own to save</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An honest crook is both incongruous and infuriating.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz had often pointed this out to me when some point</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in my ethic kept me from going along with one of his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">schemes, and now I was starting to understand what he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was talking about.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But then why are you here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wanted to warn you. Vic has been thinking that</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">76 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 77</div>
  <div class="paragraph">you might come into Limbo after your partner, and he's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">setting up some kind of trap if you did. If he was right,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I thought you should know that you're walking into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trouble. I figured that if you came, you'd look up the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dispatcher, so I waited there and followed you when</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you showed up. I just wanted to warn you is all. That</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She dropped her eyes again and lowered her voice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">until I could hardly hear her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... I wanted to see you again. I know it's silly,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As flattering as it was, this time I was unimpressed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, sure." I interrupted. "You're so interested in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me you're willing to let my partner sit on a murder rap</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just so you can watch me go through my paces."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I already explained about that," she said fiercely,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stepping forward to lay a hand on my arm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stared at it pointedly until she removed it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," she said in a small voice. "I can see that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there's nothing more I can say. But, Skeeve? Promise</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me that you won't follow me when I leave? You or your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends? I took a big risk finding you. Please don't make</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me regret it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stared at her for a long moment, then looked away</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know you're disappointed in me, Skeeve," came</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her voice, "but I can't go against my partners. Haven't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"you ever had to do something you didn't want to do to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">support your partner?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That hit home ... painfully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, I have," I said, drawing a ragged breath. "I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sorry, Luanna. I'm just Worried about Aahz, that's all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tell you what. Just to show there're no hard feelings,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can I have a token or something? Something to remem-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ber you by until I see you again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She hesitated, then pulled a gossamer-thin scarf from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somewhere inside her outfit. Stepping close, she tucked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it into my tunic, then rose on her tiptoes and kissed me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's nice of you to ask," she said. "Even if I don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean anything to you at all, it's nice of you to ask."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, she turned and sprinted off down the road</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into the darkness.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stared after her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're letting her go!?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Suddenly Massha was at my side, flanked by Guido.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Boss. We gotta catch her. She's your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner's ticket off death row. Where's she goin'?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"To meet up with her partners in crime," I said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Including a surprisingly lively guy named Vic ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">surprising since he's the one that Aahz is supposed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have killed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So we can catch 'em all together. Nice work, Hot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Stuff. Okay, let's follow her and...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because I promised her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a deathly silence as my assistants digested</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this information.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So she walks and Green and Scaly dies, is that it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're sellin' out your partner for a skirt? That</div>
   <div class="paragraph">musta been some kiss."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I slowly turned to face them, and, mad as they were,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they fell silent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now listen close," I said quietly, "because I'm not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going to go over it again. If we tried to follow her back</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to their hideout, and she spotted us, she'd lead us on a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wild goose chase and we'd never catch up with them ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and we need that so-called corpse. I don't think her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">testimony alone will swing the verdict."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">78</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Boss, if we let her get away...."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We'll find them," I said. "Without us dogging her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">footsteps, she'll head right back to her partners."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But how will we...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In answer, I pulled Luanna's scarf from my tunic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Fortunately, she was kind enough to provide us with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a means to track her, once we recruit the necessary were-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">wolf."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido gave my back a slap that almost staggered me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Way to go, Boss," he crowed. "You really had me</div>
  <div class="paragraph">goin' for a minute. I thought that chickie had really</div>
  <div class="paragraph">snowed you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I looked up to find Massha eyeing me suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That was quite a kiss. Hot Stuff," she said. "If I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't know better, I'd think that young lady is more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than a little stuck on you... and you just took</div>
  <div class="paragraph">advantage of it."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I averted my eyes, and found myself staring down the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">road again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"As a wise woman once told me," I said, "sometimes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you have to do things you don't like to support your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner. ... Now, let's go find these Woof Writers."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36306797" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36306799" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Nine: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"My colleagues and I feel that independ-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ents like ElfQuest are nothing but sheep in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wolves' clothing!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">-S.LEE</div>
  <div class="paragraph">THE Woof Writers turned out to be much more pleas-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ant than I had dared hope, which was fortunate as my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">werewolf disguises were some of the shakiest I'd ever</div>
   <div class="paragraph">done. Guido was indeed allergic to werewolves as feared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">(he started sneezing a hundred yards from their house)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and was waiting outside, but even trying to maintain</div>
   <div class="paragraph">two disguises was proving to be a strain on my powers in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this magic-poor dimension. I attempted to lessen the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">drain by keeping the changes minimal, but only suc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ceeded in making them incredibly unconvincing even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though my assistants assured me they were fine. No</div>
   <div class="paragraph">matter what anyone tells you, believe, me, pointy ears</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alone do not wolf make.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">You might wonder why I bothered with diguises at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all? Well, frankly, we were getting a little nervous.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone we had talked to or been referred to in this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension was so nice\ We kept waiting for the other</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shoe to drop. All of our talks and discussions of pos-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">80 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">sible traps had made us so skittish that we were now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">convinced that there was going to be a double-cross</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somewhere along the way. The only question in our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minds was when and by whom.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that in mind, we decided it would be best to try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to pass ourselves off as werewolves until we knew for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sure the Woof Writers were as well-disposed toward</div>
   <div class="paragraph">humans as Vilhelm said they were. The theory was that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">if they weren't, the disguises might give us a chance to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get out again before our true nature was exposed. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only difficulty with that plan was that I had never seen a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">werewolf in my life, so not only was I working with a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shortage-of energy, I was unsure as to what the final</div>
   <div class="paragraph">result should look like. As it turned out, despite their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">knowledgeable advice, my staff didn't know either.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">While we're answering questions from the audience,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you might ask, if neither I nor my assistants knew what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a werewolf looked like, how I knew the disguises were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">inadequate? Simple. I deduced the fact after one look at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">real werewolves. That and the Woof Writers told me so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Didn't I tell you they were great folks? Of course, they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">let us sweat for a while before admitting that they knew</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were poorly disguised humans all along, but I myself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tend to credit that to their dubious sense of humor. It's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha who insists it was blatant sadism. Of course, she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was the one who had to eat a bone before they acknowl-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">edged the joke.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Anyway, I was talking about the Woof Writers. It</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was interesting in that I had never had much opportu-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nity to watch a husband-wife team in action before (my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">parents don't count). The closest thing to the phenom-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enon I had witnessed was the brother-sister team of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda and Chumley, but they spent most of their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">conversational time trying to "one-down" each other.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           81</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Woof Writers, in contrast, seemed to take turns</div>
   <div class="paragraph">playing "crazy partner-sane partner." They never asked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my opinion, but I felt that she was much better at play-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing the crazy than he. He was so good at playing the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">straight that when he did slip into crazy mode. it always</div>
   <div class="paragraph">came as a surprise.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really, dear," Idnew was saying to Massha,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"wouldn't you like to slip out of that ridiculous disguise</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into something more comfortable? A werewolf with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only two breasts looks so silly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Idnew," her husband said sternly, "you're making</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our guests uncomfortable. Not everyone feels as easy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about discussing their bodies as you do."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's the artist in me," she returned, "And besides,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Drahcir, who was it that set her up to eat a bone?—and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an old one at that. If you were a little more conscien-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tious when you did the shopping instead of stocking up</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on junk food...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, don't worry about me. Hairy and Handsome,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha interceded smoothly, dropping into her vamp</div>
   <div class="paragraph">role. "I've got no problems discussing my body, as long</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as we get equal time to talk about yours. I've always</div>
   <div class="paragraph">liked my men with a lot of facial hair, if you get my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">drift."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I noticed Idnew's ears flatten for a moment before</div>
   <div class="paragraph">returning to their normal upright position. While it may</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have been nothing more than a nervous twitch, it oc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">curred to me that if we were going to solicit help from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">these two, it might not be wise to fan any embers of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">jealousy that might be lying about.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me," I said hastily, eager to get the subject</div>
   <div class="paragraph">away from Massha's obvious admiration of Drahcir,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What got you started campaigning for better relation-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ships between humans and werewolves?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">82 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, there were many factors involved," Drahcir</div>
   <div class="paragraph">explained, dropping into the lecturer mode I had grown</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to know so well in such a short time. "I think the most</div>
   <div class="paragraph">important thing to keep in mind is that the bad reputa-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion humans have is vastly overrated. There is actually</div>
   <div class="paragraph">very little documented evidence to support the legends</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of human misconduct. For the most part, werewolves</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tend to forget that, under the proper conditions, we turn</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into humans. Most of them are afraid or embarrassed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and hide themselves away until it passes, but Idnew and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I don't. If anything we generally seize the opportunity</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to go out and about and get the public used to seeing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">harmless humans in their midst. Just between us,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though, I think Idnew here likes to do it because it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">scares the hell out of folks to be suddenly confronted by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a human when they aren't expecting it. In case you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">haven't noticed, there's a strong exhibitionist streak in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my wife. For myself, it's simply a worthy cause that's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been neglected for far too long."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The other factor, which my husband has neglected</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to mention," Idnew put in impishly, "is that there's a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lot of money in it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There is? "I asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My work with Aahz had trained me to spot profit op-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">portunities where others saw none, but this time the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">specific angle had eluded me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There... umm ... are certain revenues to be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gleaned from our campaign," Drahcir said uneasily,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shooting a dark glance at his wife. "T-shirts, bumper</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stickers, lead miniatures, fan club dues, greeting cards,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and calendars, just to name a few. It's a dirty job, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somebody's got to do it. Lest my wife leave you with the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wrong impression of me, however, let me point out that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm supporting this particular cause because I really</div>
   <div class="paragraph">believe in it. There are lots of ways to make money."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           83</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and he knows them all, don't you dear?" Idnew</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said with a smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really?" I interrupted eagerly. "Would you mind</div>
   <div class="paragraph">running over a few? Could I take notes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Before you get carried away, High Roller," Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">warned, "remember why we came here originally."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh! Right! Thanks, Massha. For a minute there I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... Right!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took me a few seconds to rechannel my thoughts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While Aahz's training has gotten me out of a lot of tight</div>
   <div class="paragraph">spots and generally improved my standard of living,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there are some unfortunate side effects.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once I got my mind back on the right track, I quickly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">filled the werewolves in on our current problem. I kept</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the details sketchy, both because I was getting tired of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going back and forth over the same beginning, and to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">keep from having to elaborate on Luanna's part in caus-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing our dilemma. Still, the Woof Writers seemed quite</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enthralled by the tale, and listened attentively until I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">done.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Gee, you're really in a spot," Idnew said when I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finally ground to a halt. "If there's anything we can do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to help...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We can't," Drahcir told us firmly. "You're behind</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on your deadlines, Idnew, and I've got three more ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pearances this month... not to mention answering the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mail that's piled up the last two weekends I've been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drahcir...." Idnew said, drawing out his name.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't look at me like that, dear," her husband</div>
   <div class="paragraph">argued before she had even started her case, "and don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cock your head, either. Someone's liable to shove a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gramophone under it. Remember, you're the one who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">keeps pointing out that we have to put more time into</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our work."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">84</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was talking about cutting back on your personal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">appearances," Idnew argued. "Besides, this is impor-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tant."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So's meeting our deadlines. I'm as sympathetic to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">their problem as you are, but we can't let the plight of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one small group of humans interfere with our work on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the big picture."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But you're the one who insists that deadlines aren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as important as...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She broke off suddenly and semaphored her ears</div>
  <div class="paragraph">toward her husband.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute. Any time you start talking about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'big pictures' and 'grand crusades'... is our bank ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">count low again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Drahcir averted his eyes and shifted his feet uncom-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fortably.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, I was going to tell you, but I was afraid it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might distract you while you were trying to work. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. Let's have it," his wife growled, her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hackles rising slightly. "What is it you've invested our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">money in this time?''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was suddenly very uncomfortable. Our little discus-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sion seemed to be dissolving into a family fight I felt I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had no business being present for. Apparently Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">felt the same thing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, if you can't help us, that's that," she said, get-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ting to her feet. "No problem. A favor's not a favor if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you have to be argued into it. C'mon, Hot Stuff. We're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wasting our time and theirs."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Though in part I agreed with her, desperation</div>
   <div class="paragraph">prompted me to make one last try.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so fast, Massha. Drahcir is right. Time's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">money. Maybe we could work out some kind of a fee to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">compensate them for their time in helping us. Then it's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not a favor, it's a business deal. Face it, we really need</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           85</div>
  <div class="paragraph">their help in this. The odds of us finding this Vic char-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">acter on our own are pretty slim."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz would have fainted dead away if he had heard</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me admitting how much we needed help before the fee</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was set, but that reaction was nothing compared to how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Woof Writers took my offer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What did you say?" Drahcir demanded, rising to all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fours with his ears back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I said that maybe you'd help us if we offered to pay</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you," I repeated, backing away slightly. "I didn't mean</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to insult you...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You can't insult Drahcir with money," his wife</div>
   <div class="paragraph">snapped. "He meant what did you say about Vic?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Didn't I mention him before?" I frowned. "He's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the vampire that Aahz is supposed to have...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a sudden loud flapping sound in the rafters</div>
   <div class="paragraph">above our heads, like someone noisily shaking a news-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">paper to scare a cat off a table. It worked . .. not on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cat (I don't think the werewolves owned one) but on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha and me. My apprentice hit the floor, covering</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her head with her hands, while I, more used to sudden</div>
   <div class="paragraph">danger and being more svelte and agile, dove beneath</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the coffee table.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By the time we recovered from our panicky ... excuse</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me, our shrewd defensive maneuvers, there was nothing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to see except the vague shape of someone with huge</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wings disappearing out the front door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This one's all yours, dear," Drahcir said firmly, his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posture erect and unmoved despite the sudden activity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, honey," his wife pleaded. "You're so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">much better at explaining things. You're supposed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">help me out when it comes to talking to people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a skill I polished at those personal appearances</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're so critical of," he retorted stiffly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Would somebody tell me what's going on?" I said</div>
  <div class="paragraph">86 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 87</div>
  <div class="paragraph">in tones much louder than I usually use when I'm a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guest in someone's home.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Before I could get an answer, the door burst open</div>
   <div class="paragraph">again utterly destroying what little was left of my nerv-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ous system.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Boss! Did you s—se—Wha—wa...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Outside, Guido!" I ordered, glad to have someone I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could shout at without feeling guilty. "Blow your nose</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and I'm fine, thanks! Nice of you to ask!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By the time my bodyguard had staggered back out-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">side, his face half buried in a handkerchief, I had man-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">aged to regain most of my composure.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry for the interruption," I said as nonchalantly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as I could, "but my colleague does raise an interesting   !</div>
   <div class="paragraph">question .What was that?''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Scary?" Massha suggested.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Apparently she had recovered her composure a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">better than I had. I closed my eyes and reflected again</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the relative value of cheeky apprentices.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That," Drahcir said loftily, barely in time to keep</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me from my assistant's throat, "was Vic... one of my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wife's weird artist friends who dropped in unannounced</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for a prolonged stay and, unless I miss my guess, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">criminal you're looking for who framed your partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He wasn't really a friend of mine," Idnew put in in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a small voice. "Just a friend of a friend, really. Weird</div>
   <div class="paragraph">artist types tend to stick together and pass around the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locations of crash spaces. He was just another charity</div>
   <div class="paragraph">case down on his luck who...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... who is currently winging his way back to his ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">complice with the news that we're on their trail," I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finished with a grimace.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Isn't that 'accomplices' as in plural?" Massha asked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I ignored her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Drahcir," Idnew said, "now we have to help</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them. It's the only way we can make up for having pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vided a hideout for the very person they were trying to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">find."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If I might point out," her husband replied, "we've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">barely met these people. We don't really owe them an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">explanation, much less any help. Besides, you still have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a deadline to meet and...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drahcir!" Idnew interrupted. "It could get real</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lonely sleeping in the old kennel while I work day and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">night on a deadline, if you catch my meaning."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now, dear," Drahcir said, sidling up to his wife,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"before you go getting into a snit, hear me out. I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been thinking it over and I think there's a way we can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">provide assistance without biting into our own sched-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ules. I mean, we do have a friend... one who lives a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little north of here... who's temporarily between as-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">signments and could use the work. I'm sure he'd be will-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing to do a little tracking for them at a fraction of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fee that we'd charge for the same service."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was obviously talking in the veiled references part-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ners use to communicate or check ideas in front of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">strangers, as his words went completely over my head,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but drew an immediate reaction from Idnew.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Drahcir!" she exclaimed excitedly, all trace of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her earlier anger gone. "That's perfect! And he'll just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">love Massha."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's still the question of whether or not we can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get him here in time," her husband cautioned. "And of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">course I'll want a percentage off the top as a finder's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fee...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT! "I exclaimed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I agree," Idnew said firmly. "A finder's fee is to-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tally. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No! Before that," I urged. "What did you say</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">88 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">about there not being enough time? I thought the execu-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion wasn't scheduled until the end of the week!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right," Drahcir said. "But the end of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">week is tomorrow. Your friend is slated to be executed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at high midnight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Massha," I ordered, heading for the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We're heading back to Blut."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What for?" she demanded. "What can we do with-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out a tracker?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've tried being nice about this, and it isn't work-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing," I responded grimly. "Now we do it the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You wanted action, apprentice? How do you feel about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">giving me a hand with a little jailbreak?"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36308130" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36308132" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Ten: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong with a little harmless crime</div>
   <div class="paragraph">once in a while?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—M. BLAISE</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"BUT I'm telling you, Boss, jailbreak is a bad rap. With</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you operating at only half power in the magic depart-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment, there's no tellin' what can go wrong, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">then...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Before we get all worked up about what can go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wrong, Guido," I said, trying to salvage something con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">structive out of the conversation, "could you give me a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little information on exactly how hard it is to break</div>
   <div class="paragraph">someone out of jail? Or haven't you been involved in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">any jailbreaks, either?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course I've been along on some jailbreaks," the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bodyguard declared, drawing himself up proudly. "I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been an accomplice on three jailbreaks. What kind of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mob member do you take me for, anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With a heroic effort I resisted the temptation to an-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">swer that particular rhetorical question.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. So how about a few pointers? This is my first</div>
   <div class="paragraph">jailbreak, and I want it to go right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">89</div>
  <div class="paragraph">90 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 91</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was all set to settle in for a fairly lengthy lecture, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">instead of launching into the subject, Guido looked a bit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">uncomfortable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm... actually, Boss, I don't think you'd want</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to use any of the plans I followed. You see, all three of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'em were busts. None of 'em worked, and in two of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">capers, the guy we were tryin' to save got killed. That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how I know about what a bad rap a jailbreak is, know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, swell! Just swell! Tell me. Mister bodyguard,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with your allergies and zero-for-three record at jail-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">break, did you ever do anything for the Mob that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worked?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A gentle hand fell on my shoulder from behind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey! Ease up a little. High Roller," Massha said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">softly. "I know you're worried about your partner, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't take it out on Guido ... or me, either, for that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">matter. We may not be much, but we're here and trying</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to help as best we can when we'd both just as soon be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bac.k at the Bazaar. You're in a bad enough spot with-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out starting a two-front war by turning on your allies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I started to snap at her, but caught myself in time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead, I drew a long ragged breath and blew it out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slowly. She was right. My nerves were stretched to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">breaking point....hich served me right for not follow-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing my own advice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We were currently holed up at the Dispatcher's, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only place I could think of for an in-town base of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">operations, and as soon as we had arrived, I had insisted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that both Massha and Guido grab a bit of sleep. We had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been going nonstop ever since stepping through the door</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into Limbo, and I figured that the troops would need all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the rest they could get before we tried to spring Aahz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, once I had convinced them of the necessity of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">racking out, I promptly ignored my own wisdom and</div>
  <div class="paragraph">stayed up thinking for the duration.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The rationalization I used for this insane action was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that I wanted some extra time uninterrupted to recharge</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my internal batteries, so whatever minimal magic I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at my disposal would be ready for our efforts. In ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tuality, what I did was worry. While I had indeed taken</div>
   <div class="paragraph">part in several criminal activities since teaming up with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz, they had all been planned by either Aahz or Tan-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anda. This was my first time to get involved in master-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minding a caper, and the stakes were high. Not only</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz's but Massha's and Guide's futures were riding on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my successful debut, and my confidence level was at an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all-time low. After much pondering, I had decided to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">swallow my pride and lean heavily on Guide's expertise,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">which was why it hit me so hard when I discovered that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he knew even less about successful jailbreaks than I.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Guido," I said, trying to restructure my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thinking. "I guess I'm more tired than I realized. Didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean to snap at you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry. Boss," the bodyguard grinned. "I've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been expectin' it. All the big operators I've worked with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get a little crabby when the heat's on. If anything, your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">temper gettin' short is the best thing I've seen since we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">started this caper. That's why I've been so jumpy my-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">self. I wasn't sure if you weren't taking the job seri-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ously, or if you were just too dumb to know the kind of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">odds we were up against. Now that you're acting normal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for the situation, I feel a lot better about how it's goin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to come out in the end."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Terrific! Now that I was at the end of my rope, our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">eternal pessimist thought things were going great.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay," I said, rubbing my forehead with one fin-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ger, "we haven't got much information to go on, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what we do know is bad. According to Vilhelm, Aahz is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being held in the most escape-proof cell they have,</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">92 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">which is the top floor of the highest tower in town. If we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">try to take him from the inside, we're going to have to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fool or fight every guard on the way up and down. To</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me, that means our best bet is to spring him from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">outside."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My assistants nodded vigorously, their faces as en-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thusiastic as if I had just said something startlingly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">original and clever.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now, with my powers at low ebb. I don't think I can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">levitate that far and spring the cell. Massha, do you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have anything in your jewelry collection that would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">work for rope and climbing hooks?''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"N—no," she said hesitantly, which surprised me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She usually had a complete inventory of her nasty</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretties on the tip of her tongue.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I saw a coil of rope hangin' just inside the door,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido supplied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I noticed it, too," I acknowledged, "but it isn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nearly long enough. We'll just have to use up my power</div>
   <div class="paragraph">getting up to the cell and figure some other way of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">opening the window."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... you don't have to do that. High</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Roller," Massha said with a sigh. "I've got something</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we can use."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The belt I'm wearing with all my gear hung on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's a levitation belt. The controls aren't horribly reli-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">able, but it should do to get us to the top of the tower."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I cocked an eyebrow at my apprentice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, Massha. Why didn't you mention</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this when I asked?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She looked away quickly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You didn't ask about a belt. Only about rope and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">climbing hooks."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           93</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Since when do I have to ask you specific questions</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... or any questions, for that matter, to get your in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">put?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right," she sighed. "If you really want to know,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I was hoping we could find a way to do this without</div>
   <div class="paragraph">using the belt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It embarrasses me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It embarrasses me. I look silly floating around in the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">air. It's okay for skinny guys like you and Guido, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when I try it, I look like a blimp. All I'd need is Good-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">year tattooed on my side to make the picture complete."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I closed my eyes and tried to remember that I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tired and that I shouldn't take it out on my friends. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fact that Massha was worried about appearances while I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was trying to figure out a way to get us all out of this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alive wasn't really infuriating. It was... flattering!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was it! She was so confident of my abilities to get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">us through this crisis that she had time to think about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">appearances! Of course, the possibility of betraying that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">confidence set me off in another round of worrying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Wonderful.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You okay. Boss?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hmmm? Yeah. Sure, Guido. Okay. Now Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">floats up to the window, which leaves you and me free</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hold it, Hot Stuff," Massha said, holding up a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hand. "I think I'd better explain a little more about this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">belt. I bought it in an 'as-is' rummage sale, and the con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trols are not all they should be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How so?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, the 'up' control works okay, but the 'altitude'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is shaky so you're never sure how much you can lift or</div>
  <div class="paragraph">94</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           95</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">how high it will go. The real problem, though, is the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'down' control. There's no tapering-off effect, so it's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">either on or off."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was never particularly good at technical jargon, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flying was something I knew so I could almost follow</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let me see if I've got this right," I said. "When you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">go up, you aren't sure how much power you'll have, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when you land. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"...it ain't gentle," she finished for me. "Basically,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you fall from whatever height you're at to the ground."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know much about this magic stuff," Guido</div>
   <div class="paragraph">commented dryly, "but that doesn't sound so good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Why would you use a rig like that, anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't ... at least not for flying," Massha said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Remember, I told you I think it makes me look silly?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All I use it for is a utility belt... you know, like Bat-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">man? I mean, it's kind of pretty, and it isn't easy to find</div>
   <div class="paragraph">belts in my size."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whatever," I said, breaking into their fashion dis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cussion. "We're going to use it tonight to get up to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cell even if it means rigging some kind of ballast system.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now all we need to figure out is how to open the cell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">window and a getaway plan. Guido, it occurs to me that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we might pick up a few lessons on jailbreaks from your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">experiences even if they were unsuccessful. I mean,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">negative examples can be as instructive as positive ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">amples. So tell me, in your opinion what went wrong in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the plans you followed in the past?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard's brow furrowed as it took on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unaccustomed exercise of thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I dunno, Boss. It seems that however much planning</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was done, something always came up that we hadn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">figured on. If I had to hang our failures on any one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing, I'd say it was just that... overplanning. I mean,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">after weeks of lectures and practice sessions, you get a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little overconfident, so when something goes wrong</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're caught flatfooted, know what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nervous as we were, that got a laugh from both</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha and me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, that's one problem we won't have to worry</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about," I said. "Our planning time is always minimal,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and for this caper we're going to have to put it together</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in a matter of hours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you take hours, you'll never pull it off," Vilhelm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, entering our planning room just in time to hear my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">last comment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that supposed to mean?" Massha growled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, are you sure you guys are on the level?" the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vampire said, ignoring my apprentice. "It occurs to me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that I've only got your word on all this... that Vic is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">still alive and all. If you're taking advantage of my good</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nature to get me involved in something crooked...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's alive," I assured him. "I've seen him myself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">since we were here last... but you didn't answer the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">question. What was that you were saying about what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would happen if we took hours to plan the jailbreak?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Dispatcher shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you guys know what you're doing and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">should keep my mouth shut, but I was getting a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worried. I mean, it's sundown already, and if you're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going to make your move before the execution, it had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">better be soon."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How do you figure that?" I frowned. "The action</div>
   <div class="paragraph">isn't slated until high midnight. I had figured on waiting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a while until it was dark and things quieted down</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around town a little."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you kidding?" the vampire said with a start, his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">eyebrows going up to his hairline. "That's when ... oh,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I get it. You're still thinking in terms of your off-</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">96 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">dimension timetables. You've got to ... umm, you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might want to be sitting down for this, Skeeve."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lay it on me," I said, rubbing my forehead again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What have I overlooked now? Even without the blind-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fold and the cigarette I'd just as soon take the bad news</div>
   <div class="paragraph">standing up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, you've got to remember that you're dealing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with a city of vampires here. Sundown is the equivalent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of dawn to us. That's when things start happening, not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when they start winding down! That means...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... that high midnight is a major traffic time and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the longer we wait, the more people there will be on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">street," I said, trying to suppress a groan.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once the basic oversight had been pointed out, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could do my own extrapolations... with all their hor-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rible consequences. Trying to fight back my own panic,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I turned to my assistants.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay, troops. We're on. Guido, grab that rope you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saw. We may need it before this is over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bodyguard's eyes widened with astonishment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You mean we're going to start the caper right now?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Boss! We haven't planned... ."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Guido," I said, flashing a grin that was almost</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sane. "You were the one who said that overplanning</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was a problem. Well, if you're right, this should be the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">most successful jailbreak ever!"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36309124" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36309126" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Eleven: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Nice jail. Looks strong.'</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—H. HOUDINI</div>
  <div class="paragraph">VILHELM was right about one thing. The streets were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nowhere nearly as crowded as they had been the times</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we navigated their length well after sundown. Only a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">few stray beings wandered here and there, mostly mak-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing deliveries or sweeping down the sidewalks in front of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">their shops prior to opening. Except for the lack of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">light, the streets looked just like any town preparing for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a day's business....hat and the red eyes of the citizens.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We hugged the light as we picked our way across</div>
   <div class="paragraph">town....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That's right. I said "hugged the light." I try to only</div>
   <div class="paragraph">make the same mistake a dozen times. In other dimen-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sions, we would have "hugged the dark" to avoid being</div>
   <div class="paragraph">noticed or recognized. Here, we "hugged the light."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Don't laugh. It worked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Anyway, as we picked our way through the streets of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blut, most of my attention was taken up with the task of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trying to map a good getaway route. Getting Aahz out</div>
  <div class="paragraph">97</div>
  <div class="paragraph">98 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">of jail I would deal with once we got there. Right now I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was worried about what we would do once we had him</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out... a major assumption, I know, but I had so little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">optimism that I clung to what there was with all fours.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The three of us looked enough like vampires in ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pearance to pass casual inspection. There was no way,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">however, that we could pass off my scaly green partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as a native without a disguise spell, and I wasn't about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to bet on having any magical energy left after springing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz. As such, I was constantly craning my neck to peer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down sidestreets and alleys, hoping to find a little-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">traveled route by which we could spirit our fugitive col-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">league out of town without bringing the entire populace</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down on our necks. By the time we reached our destina-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion, I was pretty sure I could get us back to the Dis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">patcher's by the route we were following, and positively</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sure that if I tried to take us there by the back routes, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would get us totally and helplessly lost.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, Boss. This is it. Think we can crack it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I don't think Guido really expected an answer. He</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was just talking to break the silence that had fallen over</div>
   <div class="paragraph">us as we stood looking at our target.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Municipal Building was an imposing structure,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with thick stone walls and a corner tower that stretched</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up almost out of sight into the darkness. It didn't look</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like we could put a dent in it with a cannon ... if we had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a cannon, which we didn't. I was used to the tents of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bazaar or the rather ramshackle building style of Klah.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">While I had been gradually getting over being overawed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">by the construction prevalent here in Blut, this place in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">timidated me. I'd seen shakier looking mountains!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, one thing's for certain," I began, almost</div>
   <div class="paragraph">under my breath.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Staring at it isn't going to make it any weaker."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS           99</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neither of my assistants laughed at my joke, but then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">again, neither did I.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Shaking off a feeling of foreboding, I turned to my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">staff.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right, Guido. You stay down here and keep</div>
   <div class="paragraph">watch. Massha? Do you think that belt of yours can lift</div>
   <div class="paragraph">two? It's time I went topside and took a good look at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this impregnable cell."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My apprentice licked her lips nervously and shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Hot Stuff. I warned you that the con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trols on this thing don't work right. It could lift us right</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into orbit for all I know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I patted her shoulder in what I hoped was a reassuring</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, give it a try and we'll find out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She nodded, wrapped one arm around my chest, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">used her other hand to play with the jewels on her belt</div>
   <div class="paragraph">buckle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a sparkle of light, but beyond that nothing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not enough juice," she mumbled to herself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So turn it up already," I urged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">- Even if the vampires tended to avoid light, we were lit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up like a Christmas tree and bound to attract attention</div>
   <div class="paragraph">if we stayed at ground level much longer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Cross your fingers," she said grimly and touched</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the jewels again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The light intensified and we started up fast ... too</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fast.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Careful, Boss!" Guido shouted and grabbed my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">legs as they went past him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought our progress to a halt... well, almost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead of rocketing up into the night, we were rising</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slowly, almost imperceptibly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's got it, High Roller!" Massha exclaimed,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shifting her grip to hang onto me with both arms. "A</div>
  <div class="paragraph">100 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">little more ballast than I had planned on, though."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I considered briefly telling Guido to let go, but re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">jected the thought. If the bodyguard released his grip,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we'd doubtless resume our previous speed... and while</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a lot of folks at the Bazaar talked about my meteoric</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rise, I'd just as soon keep the phrase figurative. There</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was also the minor detail that we were already at a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">height where it would be dangerous for Guido to try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dropping back to the street. There was that, and his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">death-grip on my legs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't tell me, let me guess," I called down to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You're acrophobic, too?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The view of Blut that was unfolding beneath us was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">truly breathtaking. Truly! My life these days was so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cluttered with crisis and dangers that a little thing like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">looking down on buildings didn't bother me much, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">even I was finding it hard to breathe when confronted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up close with sheer walls adorned with stone creatures.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, until I felt his fingernails biting into my calves, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had never occurred to me that such things might upset a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rough-and-tumble guy like Guido.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Naw. I got nothin' against spiders," he replied nerv-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ously. "It's heights that scare me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I let that one go. I was busy studying the tower which</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could be viewed much more clearly from this altitude. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anything, it looked stronger than the portion of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">building that was below us. One feature captured my at-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tention, though. The top portion of the tower, the part I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">assumed was Aahz's cell, was shaped like a large</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragon's head. The window I had been expecting was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">actually the creature's mouth, with its teeth serving as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bars.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I should have anticipated something like that, realiz-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing the abundance of stone animals on every other</div>
   <div class="paragraph">building in town. Still, it came as a bit of a surprise...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          101</div>
  <div class="paragraph">but a pleasant surprise. I had been trying to figure a way</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to get through iron bars, but stone teeth might be a bit</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easier. Maybe with Aahz working from the inside and us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">working from the outside, we could loosen the mortar</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I suddenly realized that in a few moments we would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be level with the cell... and that a few moments after</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that we'd be past it! Unless something was done, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">done fast, to halt our upward progress, we'd only have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time for a few quick words with Aahz before parting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">company permanently. With time running out fast, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cast about for a solution.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The wall was too far away to grab onto, and there was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">no way to increase our weight, unless....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When Aahz first taught me to fly, he explained the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">process as "levitation in reverse." That is, instead of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">using the mind to lift objects, you push against the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ground and lift yourself. Focusing my reservoir of magi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cal energy, I used a small portion to try flying in reverse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead of pushing up, I pushed down!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Okay. So I was desperate. In a crisis, I'll try anything,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">however stupid. Fortunately, this stupid idea worked!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Our upward progress slowed to a halt with me hang-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing at eye-level with the cell's dragon mouth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Trying not to show my relief, I raised my voice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Aahz! When are visiting hours?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a moment there was no response, and I had a sud-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">den fear that we were hanging a hundred feet in the air</div>
   <div class="paragraph">outside an empty cell. Then my partner's unmistakable</div>
   <div class="paragraph">countenance appeared in the window.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Skeeve?" he said in a skeptical voice. "Skeeve!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What are you doing out there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, we were just in the neighborhood and thought</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we'd drop in," I replied in my best nonchalant voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Heard you were in a bit of trouble and thought we'd</div>
  <div class="paragraph">102</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          103</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">better get you out before it got serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who's we?" my partner demanded, then he focused</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on my assistants. "Oh no! Those two? Where are Tan-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anda and Chumley? C'mon, Skeeve. I need a rescue</div>
   <div class="paragraph">team and you bring me a circus act!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's the best I could do on short notice," I shot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back, slightly annoyed. "Tananda and Chumley aren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back from their own work yet, but I left a message for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them to catch up with us if they could. Of course, I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not sure how much help they'll be. In case you're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wondering why I'm being carried by my apprentice in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stead of flying free, this particular dimension is excep-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tionally low on force lines to tap in to. If anything, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think I'm pretty lucky that I brought 'these two' along</div>
   <div class="paragraph">instead of ending up with a whole team of for-real magi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cians who are too proud to use gimmicks. It's thanks to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'these two' that I made it this far at all. Now, dtf you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">want our help, or do you want to wait for the next team</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to float past? I mean, you're in no rush, are you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now don't get your back up, partner," Aahz said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">soothingly. "You caught me a little off-guard is all. So</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tell me, just how do you figure to get me out of here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought me back to earth ... or as close to it as 1</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could get while suspended in mid-air.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm... actually, Aahz, I was kinda hoping you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might have a few ideas on the subject. You're usually</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pretty good at coming up with plans to get us out of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tight spots."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What I want to know," Guido snarled, turning</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slightly in the wind, "is how come your partner hasn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">figured a way out of there all by himself, if he's so all-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fired smart?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I started to rebuke my bodyguard, but slowly his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">words sank in. That was a good question! Aahz was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">strong ... I mean STRONG! By rights he should have</div>
  <div class="paragraph">been able to rip the stone teeth out of the window all by</div>
   <div class="paragraph">himself. What was keeping him here?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I'm having so much fun in here I just couldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bear to leave," Aahz barked back. "I'm in here because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I can't get out, that's why. What's more, if any of you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have any ideas about how to get me out, I think now's a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">real good time to share them with the rest of us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, Aahz," I said. "Why can't you get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out... and how did they catch you in the first place?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was framed," my partner retorted, but I noticed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his voice was a bit more subdued.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We already know that." Impressed. "What I want to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know is why you didn't just bust a few heads and sprint</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for home? You've never been particularly respectful of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">local authority before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">To my surprise, Aahz actually looked embarrassed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was drugged," he said in a disgusted tone. "They</div>
   <div class="paragraph">put something in my drink, and the next thing I knew I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had a stake and mallet in my hands and a room full of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">officials. Whatever it was they used, it kept me groggy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all the way through the trial... I mean I couldn't walk</div>
   <div class="paragraph">straight, much less defend myself coherently, and after</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that I was in/we!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The old Mickey Finn trick!" Massha snorted, rock-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing our entire formation. "I'm surprised someone as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off-worldly as you could get caught by such a corny</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stunt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. It surprised me, too!" Aahz admitted. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean, that gag is so old, who would really expect any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one to try it at all?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Only if you figured the mark was louder than he was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">smart," Guido sneered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is that so!" my partner snapped, ready to renew</div>
   <div class="paragraph">their old rivalry. "Well, when I get out of here, you and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me can...."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">104 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stop it, you two," I ordered. "Right now the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">problem is to get us all out of here before the balloon</div>
   <div class="paragraph">goes up ... no offense, Massha. Now spill, Aahz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What's so special about this cell that's keeping you bot-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tled up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My partner heaved a great sigh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take another look at it, Skeeve. A close look."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I did. It still looked the same to me: a tower room in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the shape of a dragon's head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Okay. So?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So remember where we are. This thing was built to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hold vampire criminals. You know, beings with super-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">human strength that can change into mist?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My gaze flew back to the dragon's head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't get it," I admitted. "How can any stone cell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hold beings like that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's the point." Aahz winced. "A stone cell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can't\ This thing is made of living stone. If whoever's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">inside tries to bust out, it swallows them. If they try to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turn into mist, it inhales them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You mean...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now you're getting the picture."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He flashed his toothy grin at me despite his obvious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">depression.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The cell is alive!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Startled by this revelation, I looked at the tower top</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cell again. As if it had been waiting for the right cue, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragon's head opened its eyes and looked at me.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36310118" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36310120" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Twelve: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"For the right person, the impossible is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">easy!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—DUMBO</div>
  <div class="paragraph">To everyone's surprise, particularly my own, I didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">find the revelation about the true nature of Aahz's con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finement at all discouraging. If anything, I was doubly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pleased. Not only did I have an immediate idea for how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to beat the problem, I had arrived at it before my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">knowledgeable partner... well before, as a matter of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fact, as he had been pondering his dilemma for days</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whereas I had only just received the information. Of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">course, he was probably not in a position to see the easy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">solution that I could.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What are you grinning at?" he demanded. "If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there's anything funny about this, it eludes me com-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pletely."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Unlike my own amiable self, Aahz tends to show his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worry by getting mad. Come to think of it, he tends to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">express almost any emotion by getting mad. Well, at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">least he's consistent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me," I said, eyeing the dragon's head, "you say</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this thing's alive. How alive is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">105</div>
  <div class="paragraph">106</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">107</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, 'how alive is it'?" Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">scowled. "It's alive enough to swallow me if it gets it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into it's head. That's alive enough for me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I mean, can it hear and see?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who cares?" my partner said, in a dazzling display</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of charm and curiosity that makes him so lovable. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hadn't planned on asking it out for a date."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I stared thoughtfully at the beast.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was just wondering if it could hear me ... say, if I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said that I thought it was the ugliest building decoration</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've seen here in town?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The dragon's head rewarded me by narrowing its eyes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into an evil glare.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think it can hear you, Boss," Guido said, shifting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his grip nervously. "It doesn't look like it liked that last</div>
   <div class="paragraph">comment."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, swell!" Aahz grumbled. "Tell you what, part-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ner. Why don't you come in here and sit on this thing's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tongue instead of me before you start getting it all riled</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was just checking." I smiled. "To tell the truth, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think it's the most incredible thing I've seen since I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">started traveling the dimensions. I just said that other to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">test its reactions."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The dragon stopped glaring, but it still looked a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bit suspicous and wary.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, find some other reaction to test, okay?" my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner snapped. "For some obscure reason, I'm a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nervous these days, and every time this thing moves its</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tongue I age a few centuries."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I ignored his grumbling and shook one of my legs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Guido! Are you still paying attention down</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His grip tightened fiercely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course I'm paying attention, you little ... I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">mean, yeah, Boss. There's not much else to do while</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we're hangin'. here, know what I mean? And quit jerk-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing your leg around... please?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I found his verbal slip rather interesting, but now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wasn't the time to investigate further.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, listen up," I said. "Here's what I want you to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">do. I want you to let go with one hand and pass the rope</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up to me. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No way, Boss! Have you seen how far down it is?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm not lettin' go no matter what you. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... because if you don't," I continued as if he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hadn't interrupted, "I'm going to start squirming</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around until either you lose your grip with both hands</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or Massha loses her grip on me. Whichever way it goes,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you'll fall. Get my drift? Now for once could you just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">follow orders without a lot of back-talk? We don't have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">much time to pull this off."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a stricken silence below as Guido absorbed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my ultimatum and weighed the possibilities.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Pull what off?" Aahz demanded. "Why doesn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anybody tell me anything? If this master plan of yours is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">riding on that sorry excuse for a bodyguard, you might</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as well give up right now. I've told you all along that he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was too lily-livered to be any good at. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who's lily-livered?!" Guido shouted. "Look, Big</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mouth, as soon as we get you out of there, you and me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are going to settle this once and. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"First, we've got to get him out, Guido," I inter-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rupted. "The rope."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right, Boss. One rope coming up. We'll see who's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lily-livered. The last person who called me that was my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mom, and by the time I got done with her...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Our whole formation began to rock dangerously as he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fumbled through his coat one-handed in search of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rope. For a minute, I was afraid he was mad enough to</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">108</div>
  <div class="paragraph">let go with both hands to speed his search.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Easy there, Guido," I cautioned. "We can.... ."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Here it is, Boss!" he said, flipping the rope up so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">violently that it almost whacked me in the face. "I hope</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you can use it to hang the son of a...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hanging isn't enough!" Aahz taunted. "It takes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more than a piece of rope to do me in."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. It takes a little girl with blue eyes and a spiked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">drink," my bodyguard sneered back. "If you think I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going to let you live that one down...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I forced myself to ignore them. While it was tempting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to rally to Luanna's defense, there were other more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pressing matters to attend to.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moving as carefully as I could, I looped one end of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the rope up and around Massha's waist. It took a couple</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of tries and a lot more rope than I would have liked, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finally I managed to catch the dangling end and tie it off</div>
  <div class="paragraph">securely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's with the rope, Hot Stuff?" Massha said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">calmly, the only one of our group who had managed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">keep her cool through the entire proceedings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, with any luck, in a little while we're going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be heading down... with Aahz," I explained. "Even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though I know you're strong, I don't think your hands</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are strong enough to keep a grip on all three of us while</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we make the trip. This is to be sure we don't lose anyone</div>
  <div class="paragraph">after we spring the cell."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Speaking of that," Aahz called, "I'm still waiting to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hear how you're going to get me out of this thing. You</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might even say I'm dying to find out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wasn't the only one. The dragon's head was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">watching my every movement through slitted eyes. I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not sure how much pride it took in its job, but it was ob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vious the beast wasn't getting ready to overwhelm us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with its cooperation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          109</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Everything was as ready as I could make it, so I de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cided it was time to play my trump card.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing to it, really," I told my partner with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a smile. "Talk to me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It isn't often I catch my old mentor totally by surprise</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... I get him upset on a fairly regular basis, but total</div>
   <div class="paragraph">surprise was a real rarity. This was one of those golden</div>
   <div class="paragraph">times.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say WHAT?" Aahz exclaimed loudly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Trust me, Aahz," I insisted. "I know what I'm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing. Just talk to me. Tell me a story. How did you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first meet Garkin?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, that," he said, rolling his eyes expressively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, we were at the same boring cocktail party, see</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... you know, one of those dreary affairs where the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">crowd has you pinned against the wall and you get stuck</div>
   <div class="paragraph">talking to whatever the tide washes up against you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Anyway, he was trying to impress some little bit of fluff</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with his magic, which really wasn't all that hot in those</div>
   <div class="paragraph">days ... let me tell you, partner, anytime you start get-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ting depressed with your lack of progress in the magic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">business, remind me to tell you what your old teacher</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Garkin was like when we first met. But, as I was saying,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out of respect for the craft, I just had to wander over</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and show them what the real stuff looked like... not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that I had any interest in her myself, mind you...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I felt Guido tugging on my pantleg.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, Boss," he complained. "What is this? I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thought we were in a hurry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is what we needed the time for," I whispered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"For thisV he grumbled. "But Boss, if we don't get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">started. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're started," I answered. "Now pay attention to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what he's saying."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">110</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was afraid our side comments might have distracted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz, but I needn't have worried. As per normal, once</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my partner got on a verbal roll, he wasn't that easy to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">stop.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"...so there we were, just the three of us, mind you,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and remember, our clothes were five floors away at this</div>
  <div class="paragraph">point...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's going on, Hot Stuff?" Massha hissed from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her position above me. "I know you've heard this story</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before. Heck, I've heard it four times myself."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Keep your eye on the dragon," I advised her. "And</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be ready to act fast."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was going through the motions of reacting to Aahz's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">story and fielding the impatient questions of my assis-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tants as best I could, but my real attention was focused</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the dragon's head. My strategy was already working.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz's droning account of past glories was starting to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take effect.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The dragon's eyes were definitely starting to glaze.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"...of course, after all that, I just had to take her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">home with me. It was the least I could do for the poor</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing under the circumstances."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz was winding up his story already! I had to keep</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him going just a little bit longer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Was that the party where you met Tananda?" I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, deliberately feeding him another cue.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tananda? No. That's another story completely. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">met her when I was sitting in on a cut-throat game of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dragon poker over at the Geek's. We had a real pigeon</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the line, the kind of idiot who would bet a busted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corp's a' Corp's into a Unicorn Flush showing,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you know? Well, I was a little low on funds just then,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido was getting restless again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Boss, how much longer are we gonna...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          111</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not much longer," I interrupted. "Get hold of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rope. We're about to move."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... now I was holding Ogres back-to-back ... or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was it Elves? No, it was Ogres. I remember because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda had Elves wrapped up. Of course, we didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know that until the end of the hand. Anyway, as soon as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the Geek opened, I bumped him back limit, and Tan-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anda ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That did it. I should have known a hand-by-hand,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bet-by-bet description of dragon poker would do the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trick.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Without any warning at all, the dragon yawned...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">long and wide.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz broke off his narration, a momentous event in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">itself, and blinked his surprise.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Quick, Aahz! Jump for it!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Bewildered as he was, there was nothing wrong with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my partner's reflexes. He was out of the dragon's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mouth in a flash, diving through the air to catch the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rope below Guido.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As soon as his hands closed on our lifeline, several</div>
   <div class="paragraph">things happened at the same time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With the extra weight on Massha's levitation belt, our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whole formation started to sink at an alarming rate...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my apprentice lost her grip on me, giving me minor rope</div>
   <div class="paragraph">burns as I clutched madly for the rope, almost too late</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to follow the advice I had been so freely giving to every-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one else ... and the dragon closed his mouth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I caught one last glimpse of the beast before we sank</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from sight, and I honestly don't think he even knew we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were gone. His eyelids were at half-mast, and the eyes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">themselves were out of focus from boredom. Aahz's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stories tended to have that effect on even vaguely-intelli-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gent beings. I had simply found a practical application</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for the phenomenon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">112</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've gotta change the controls, Hot Stuff!" Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">called, alerting me once more to our current situation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ground was rushing up to meet us with frighten-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing speed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I remembered the faulty controls that held all of us at</div>
  <div class="paragraph">their mercy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No! Wait, Massha! Let me try...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Exerting my last ounce of reserve power, I worked at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">levitating our whole crew. Under normal circumstances,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could lift three people easily and four or five in a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pinch. Here in Limbo, using everything I had with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha's belt assisting me, I barely managed to slow</div>
  <div class="paragraph">our descent to a moderate crawl.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What happened there, partner?" Aahz called.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"How did you know that thing was going to yawn?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Call it a lucky guess," I grunted, still concentrating</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on keeping us from crashing. "I'll explain later."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Check the landing zone," Guido warned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I sneaked a peak.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We had been at our task longer than I thought. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sidewalk below was crowded with vampires strolling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here and there as Blut's legendary nightlife fired up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't think we can bluff our way through this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one," Aahz said calmly. "Any chance you can steer us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around the corner into the alley? There doesn't seem to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">be as much of a crowd there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Before I could answer, something flashed past us</div>
  <div class="paragraph">from above with a flutter of leather wings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"JAILBREAK!" it screamed, banking around the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">corner. "Murderer on the loose! JAILBREAK!"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36311130" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36311132" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Thirteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"I've never seen so damn many Indians."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—G. A. CUSTER</div>
  <div class="paragraph">THE words of alarm had an interesting effect on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">crowd below. After a brief glance to see us descending</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into their midst, to a man they turned and ran. In a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">twinkling, the street was empty.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" I called to Aahz, unable to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">believe our good fortune.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beats me!" my partner shouted back. "I guess none</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of the normal citizenry want to tangle with an escaped</div>
   <div class="paragraph">murderer. Better get us down fast before they figure out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how badly outnumbered we are."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I didn't have to be told twice. Our escape had just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gotten an unexpected blessing, but I wasn't about to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">make book on how long it would last. I cut my magical</div>
   <div class="paragraph">support, and we dropped swiftly toward the pavement.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What was that that blew the whistle on us?" Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, peering up into the darkness where our mysterious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saboteur had disappeared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think it was that Vic character," Guido answered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from below me. "I got a pretty good look at him when</div>
  <div class="paragraph">113</div>
  <div class="paragraph">114 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">he bolted past me back at the Woof Writers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really?" I asked, half to myself, twisting around to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">look after the departed villain. "That's one more we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">owe him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Later," Aahz commanded, touching down at last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Right now we've got to get out of here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido was beside him in a second. I had to drop a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ways, as with the extra weight removed from the rope,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we had ceased to sink.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Massha!" I called. "Cut the power in that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing. It's not that far to fall."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm trying!" she snapped back, fiddling with the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">belt buckle once more. "The flaming thing's malfunc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tioning again!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The belt setting had changed. Holding the rope, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could feel that there was no longer an upward pull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Unfortunately, Massha wasn't sinking, either. Instead,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she hovered in mid-air about fifteen feet up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Boss! We got company!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I followed my bodyguard's gaze. There was a mob</div>
   <div class="paragraph">forming down the street to our left, and it didn't look</div>
   <div class="paragraph">happy. Of course, it was hard to tell for sure, but I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the definite impression that their eyes were glowing red-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">der than normal, which I was unable to convince myself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was a good sign.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maasshhhha!" I nagged, my voice rising uncon-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trollably as I tugged on the rope.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's jammed!" she whimpered. "Go on, take off,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Hot Stuff. No sense in all of us getting caught."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We can't just leave you here," I argued.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We don't have time for a debate," Aahz snarled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guido! Get up there ahead of us and keep the street</div>
   <div class="paragraph">open. We can't afford to get cut off. Okay, let's go!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, he snatched the rope out of my hand and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">took off running down the street away from the crowd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with Guido out front in point position and Massha</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          115</div>
  <div class="paragraph">floating over his head like a gaudy balloon. For once, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't object to him giving orders to my bodyguard. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was too busy sprinting to keep up with the rest of my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">group.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If the watching mob was having any trouble deciding</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what to do, the sight of us fleeing settled it. With a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">howl, they swarmed down the street in pursuit.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When I say "with a howl," I'm not speaking figura-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tively. As they ran, some of the vampires transformed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into large, fierce-looking dogs, others into bats, pre-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sumably to gain more speed in the chase. While Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and I had been chased by mobs before, this was the first</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pack of pursuers who literally bayed at our heels. I must</div>
   <div class="paragraph">say I didn't care much for the experience.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where are we going, Aahz?" I panted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Away from them!" he called back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I mean, eventually," I pressed. "We're heading the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wrong way to get back to our hideout."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We can't hole up until we've shaken our fan club,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my partner insisted. "Now shut up and run."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had certain doubts about our ability to elude our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pursuers while towing Massha overhead to mark our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">position, but I followed Aahz's instructions and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pumped the pavement for all I was worth. For one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing, if I pointed out this obvious fact to my partner,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he might simply let go of the rope and leave my appren-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tice to fend for herself. Then again, the option to run-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ning was to stand firm and face the mob. All in all,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">running seemed like a real good idea.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido was surprisingly good at clearing a path for us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I had never really seen my bodyguard in action, but with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his constant carping and allergy problems throughout</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this venture, I was tending to discount his usefulness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not so. The vampires we encountered in our flight had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">not heard the alarm and were unprepared for the whirl-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wind that burst into their midst. Guido never seemed to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">116 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 117</div>
  <div class="paragraph">break stride as he barreled into victim after victim, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whatever he did to them was effective. None of the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fallen bodies which marked his progress attempted to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">interfere with Aahz or I ... heck, they didn't even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">move.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"River ahead. Boss!" he called over his shoulder.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?" I puffed, realizing for the first time</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how out of shape I had grown during my prosperous</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stay at the Bazaar.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A river!" he repeated. "The street we're on is going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to dead-end into a river in a few blocks. I can see it'from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here. We're going to have to change direction or we'll</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get pinned against the water."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I wondered whether it wouldn't be a good idea for us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to just plunge into the river and put some moving water</div>
   <div class="paragraph">between us and the vampires, as I seemed to recall a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">legend that that was one of the things that could stop</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them. Then it occurred to me that my bodyguard prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ably couldn't swim.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Head right!" Aahz shouted. "There! Up that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alley."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Guido darted off on the indicated course with my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner and I pounding along about fifteen paces</div>
   <div class="paragraph">behind him. We had built up a bit of a lead on our pur-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">suers, though we could still hear their cries and yelps a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">block or so back, and for the first time I started to have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the hope that we might actually elude them. Now that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were out of their line of sight....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lookout. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a sudden cry from above, and Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">came crashing to the ground, gaming the dubious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">distinction of being the first person I've ever witnessed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing a belly-flop on dry land. I'm sure the ground</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't actually shake, but the impact was enough to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">leave that impression. I experienced a quick flash of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guilt, realizing that my first thought was not for the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">well-being of my apprentice, but rather unbridled relief</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that she hadn't landed on one of us.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think the controls just came unstuck," Aahz said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rather unnecessarily to my thinking.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you all right, Massha?" I said, crouching over</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wha—ha ..." came the forced reply.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course, she's not all right," Aahz snapped,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">assuming translator duties. "At the very least she's got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the wind knocked out of her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Whatever the exact extent of the damages suffered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from her fall, my apprentice wasn't even trying to rise. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would have liked to give her a few minutes recovery</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time, but already the sounds of our pursuers were draw-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing closer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can you carry her, Aahz?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not on my best day," my partner admitted, eyeing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha's sizable bulk. "How about you? Have you got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enough juice left to levitate her?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I shook my head violently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Used it all supervising our aerial maneuvers back at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the jail."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. Boss!" Guido hissed, emerging from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shadows behind us. "The alley's blocked. This is the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only way out!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And that was that. Even if we got Massha up and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">moving, all it meant was that we'd have to retrace our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">steps right back into the teeth of the mob. We had run</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our race... and were about to lose it rather spectacu-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">larly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The others knew it, too.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, it's been nice working with you, Guido,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz said with a sigh. "I know I've gotten on your case</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a couple of times, but you're a good man to have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around in a pinch. You did some really nice crowd work</div>
   <div class="paragraph">getting us this far. Sorry about that last turn call."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">118 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 119</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No hard feelings," my bodyguard shrugged. "You</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gave it your best shot. This alley would have been my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">choice, too, if I'd been workin' alone. Boss, I warned</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you I was a jinx when it came to jailbreaks. I gotta ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mit, though, for a while there I really thought we were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">goin' to pull this one off."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was a long shot at best." I grinned. "At least you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can't say that this one suffered from over-planning."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz clapped a hand on my shoulder.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, partner?" he said. "Any thoughts on how to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">play this one? Do we try to surrender peacefully, or go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down swinging?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I wasn't sure the crowd would give us a choice. They</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were almost at our alley, and they didn't sound like they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cared much for talking.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"NOT THIS WAY! THEY'RE DOUBLING BACK</div>
   <div class="paragraph">TOWARD THE JAIL!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This unexpected cry came from the street near the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mouth of our alley.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I.couldn't believe it, but apparently the mob did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were curses and shouted orders, but from their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fast-fading manner it was plain that the crowd had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turned and was now heading back the way they had</div>
  <div class="paragraph">come.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What was that?" Massha managed, her voice re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turning at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I motioned her to be silent and cocked an eyebrow at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz, silently asking the same question.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He answered with an equally silent shake of the head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither of us knew for sure what was going on, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we both sensed that the timely intervention was neither</div>
   <div class="paragraph">accidental nor a mistake. Someone had deliberately</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pulled the crowd off our backs. Before we celebrated</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our good fortune, we wanted to know who and why.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pair of figures appeared at the mouth of the alley.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You can come out now," one of them called.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry to interfere, but it looked like so much fun we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just had to play, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I'd know that voice anywhere, even if I didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">recognize the figure as well as the unmistakable form of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her brother.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tananda! Chumley!" I shouted, waving to pinpoint</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our position. "I was wondering when you'd show up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sister-brother team of Trollop and Troll hastened</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to join us. For all their lighthearted banter, I can think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of few beings I'd rather have on or at my side when</div>
   <div class="paragraph">things get tight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you all right?" Tananda asked, stopping to help</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha to her feet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really never had much dignity," my apprentice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">responded, "and what little I did have is shot to hell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except for that I'm fine. I'm starting to see why you Big</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Leaguers are so down on mechanical magic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chumley seized my hand and pumped it vigorously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now don't be too rough on your little gimmicks,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ducks," he advised. "That little ring you left us was just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the ticket we needed to get here in time for the latest in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our unbroken string of last-minute rescues. Except for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the typical hash you've made of your end-game, it looks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like you've done rather well without us. We've got all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">present and accounted for, including Aahz, who seems</div>
   <div class="paragraph">remarkably unscathed after yet one more near-brush</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with disaster. Seems like all that's left is a hasty retreat</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and a slow celebration ... eh, what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's about the size of it," I agreed. "It's great</div>
   <div class="paragraph">having the two of you along to ride shotgun on our exit,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">though. Speaking of which, can you find the castle from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">here? I've gotten a little turned around...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hold it right there!" Aahz broke in. "Before we get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">too wrapped up in congratulating each other, aren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there a few minor details being overlooked?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The group looked at each other.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">120</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like what?" Tananda said at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like the fact that I'm still wanted for murder, for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one," my partner glared. "Then again, there's the three</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fugitives we're supposed to be bringing back to Deva</div>
  <div class="paragraph">with us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on, Aahz," the Trollop chided, poking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him playfully in the ribs. "With the reputation you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">already have, what's a little thing like a murder war-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rant?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't do it," Aahz insisted. "Not only didn't I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">kill this Vic character, nobody did. He's still around</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somewhere laughing down his sleeve at all of us. Now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">while I'll admit my reputation isn't exactly spotless, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doesn't include standing still for a bum rap ... or let-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ting someone get away with making a fool of me!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course, saving the money for paying the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">swindlers' debts plus the fines involved has nothing to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">do with it, eh, Aahz?" Chumley said, winking his larger</div>
  <div class="paragraph">eye.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well... that, too," my partner admitted. "Isn't it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nice that we can take care of both unpleasant tasks at</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the same time?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we could settle for just catching Vic and let</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the others go," I murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How's that again, partner?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nothing, Aahz," I said with a sigh. "It's just that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... nothing. C'mon everybody. If we're going to go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hunting, it's going to require a bit of planning, and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't think we should do it out here in the open."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36312153" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36312155" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Fourteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Relax, Julie. Everyone will understand."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">—ROMEO</div>
  <div class="paragraph">FORTUNATELY, Massha's elevated position during our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flight had given her an excellent view of our surround-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ings, and we were able to find our way back to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dispatcher's without being discovered by the aroused</div>
   <div class="paragraph">populace. Now that our numbers had increased, how-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ever, Vilhelm's greeting was noticeably cooler.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm starting to believe what everybody says," the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">little vampire complained. "Let one demon in, and the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">next thing you know the neighborhood's crawling with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them. When I decided to talk to you folks instead of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blowing the whistle on you, I didn't figure on turning</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my office into a meeting place for off-worlders."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Vilhelm," I said, trying to edge my foot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into the doorway. "We don't have any place else to go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in town. There aren't that many of us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We could always just wait out on the street until the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">authorities come by," Aahz suggested. "I don't imagine</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it would take much to convince them that this guy has</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been harboring fugitives."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">121</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">122              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can it. Green and Scaly," Massha ordered, puffing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">herself up to twice her normal size. "Vilhelm's been nice</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to us so far. and I won't listen to anyone threaten him,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">even you. Just remember that you'd still be cooling your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">heels in the slammer if it weren't for him. Either he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">helps of his own free will, or we look elsewhere."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz gave ground before her righteous indignation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Are you going to let your apprentice talk to me that</div>
  <div class="paragraph">way? "he demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Only when she's right." I shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I say, Aahz," Chumley intervened. "Could you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">possibly curb your normally vile manners for a few mo-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ments? We don't really need one more enemy in this di-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mension, and I, for one, would appreciate the chance to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">extend my thanks to this gentleman before he throws us</div>
  <div class="paragraph">out."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When he's working, Chumley goes by the name of</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Big Crunch and does a Neanderthal that's the envy of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">half the barbarians at the Bazaar. On his own time,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">however, his polished charm has solved a lot of prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lems for us ... almost as many as Aahz's bluster has</div>
  <div class="paragraph">gotten us into.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on in," the Dispatcher grumbled. "Enter</div>
  <div class="paragraph">freely and of your own accord and all that. I never could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turn my back on somebody in trouble. Guess that's why</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've never traveled the other dimensions myself. They'd</div>
  <div class="paragraph">eat me alive out there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Vilhelm," I said, slipping past him into the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">office before he could change his mind. "You'll have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to forgive my partner. He really isn't always like this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being on death row hasn't done much for his sense of</div>
  <div class="paragraph">humor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I guess I'm a little edgy myself," the vampire ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mitted. "Strange as it sounds, I've been worried about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you folks... and your motor-mouthed friend who's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been keeping me company hasn't helped things much."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          123</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I did a quick nose count of our troop.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute," I frowned. "Who's been waiting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for us?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now it was Vilhelm's turn to look surprised.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Didn't one of you send out for a werewolf? He said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he was with you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahh! But I am! My friends, they do not know me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">yet, but I shall be their salvation, no?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, I was overwhelmed by a shaggy rug. Well,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at least that's what I thought until it came off the floor</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and threw itself into my arms with the enthusiasm of a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">puppy ... a very large puppy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that?!." Aahz said, his eyes narrowing dan-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gerously. "Skeeve, can't I leave you alone for a few</div>
   <div class="paragraph">days without you picking up every stray in any given di-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mension?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That," in this case, was one of the scroffiest-look-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing werewolves I'd ever seen... realizing, of course,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that until this moment I'd only seen two. He had dark</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bushy eyebrows (if you'll believe that on a werewolf)</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and wore a white stocking cap with a maple leaf on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">side. His whiskers were carefully groomed into a han-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dlebar mustache, and what might have been a goatee</div>
   <div class="paragraph">peered from beneath his chin. Actually, viewed piece-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">meal, he was very well-groomed. It's just when taken in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">its entirety that he looked scroffy. Maybe it was the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">leer... .</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Honest, Aahz," I protested, trying to untangle</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself. "I've never seen him before in my life!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, but forgive me," the beast said, releasing me so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">suddenly I almost fell. "I am so stupeed, I forget to in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">troduce. So! I am an artist extraordinaire, but also, I am</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ze finest track-air in ze land. My friends, the Woof</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Writers, they have told me of your pro-blem and I have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flown like ze wind to aid you. No? I am Pepe Le Garou</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A. and I am at your service."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">124</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          125</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, he swept into a low bow with a flourish</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that if I hadn't been so flabbergasted I would have ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">plauded. It occurred to me that now I knew why the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Woof Writers had snickered when they told us they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">knew of someone who could help.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Boss," Guido said, his voice muffled by his hand,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">which he was holding over his nose and mouth. "Shall I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">wait outside?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tananda cocked an eyebrow at him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Allergy problems? Here, try some of this. No</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension traveler should be without it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She produced a small vial and tossed it to my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bodyguard. "Rub some onto your upper lip just below</div>
  <div class="paragraph">your nose."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Gee, thanks," Guido said, following her instruc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tions. "What is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a counter-allergenic paste." She shrugged. "I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">think it has a garlic base."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT?" my bodyguard exclaimed, dropping the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">vial.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tananda favored him with one of her impish grins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just kidding. Nunzio was worried about you and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">told us about your allergies ... all of them."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her brother swatted her lightly on the rump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Shame on you, little sister," he said, smiling in spite</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of himself. "After you get done apologizing to Guido, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">suggest you do the same for our host. I think you nearly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gave him a heart attack with that last little joke."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This was, of course, just what I needed while stranded</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in a hostile dimension. A nervous vampire, a melo-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dramatic werewolf, and now my teammates decide it's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time to play practical jokes on each other.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... tell me, Mr. A.," I said, ignoring my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">other problems and turning to the werewolf. "Do you</div>
  <div class="paragraph">think you can...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, non," he interrupted. "Eet is simply Pepe, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Pepe A.," I repeated dutifully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Zat's right," he beamed, apparently delighted with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my ability to learn a simple phrase. "Now, before we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... how you say, get down to ze business, would you do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me ze hon-air of introducing me to your colleagues?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Sorry. This is my partner, Aahz. He's...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But of course! Ze famous Aahz! I have so long</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wished to meet you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If there's anything that can coax Aahz out of a bad</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mood, it's flattery... and Pepe seemed to be an expert</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in that category.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've heard of me?" he blinked. "I mean...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what exactly have you heard? There have been so many</div>
   <div class="paragraph">adventures over the years."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do you not remem-bair Piere? I was raised from a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pup on his tales of your fight with Isstvan."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Piere? You know Piere?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do I know him? He is my uncle!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No kidding. Hey, Tananda! Did you hear that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Pepe here's Piere's nephew. Wait'11 we tell Gus."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I retired from the conversation, apparently forgotten</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in the reunion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Say, Skeeve," Vilhelm said, appearing at my side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"It looks like this could take a while. Should I break out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the wine?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That got my attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wine? You've got wine?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stocked up on it after your last visit," the vampire</div>
   <div class="paragraph">admitted with a grin. "Figured it might come in handy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the next time you came through. I may gripe a bit, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">talking to you and your friends is a lot more fun than</div>
   <div class="paragraph">watching the tubes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well bring it out... but I get the first glass. Unless</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you've got lots there won't be much left after my part-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ner there gets his claws on it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I turned back to the proceedings just in time to see</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">126              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Pepe kissing my apprentice's hand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do not be afraid, my little flow-air," he was saying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Here is one who truly appreciates your beauty, as well</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as ... how should I say it, its quantity?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're kinda cute," Massha giggled. "But I never</div>
   <div class="paragraph">did go in much for inter-species dating, if you get my</div>
  <div class="paragraph">drift."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I caught Aahz's attention and drew him away from</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the group.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Could you take over for a while here, partner?" I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">said. "I've been running nonstop since the start of this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing and could use a little time by myself to recharge</div>
  <div class="paragraph">my batteries before we fire up again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No problem," he nodded, laying a hand on my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shoulder. "I figure we won't be moving before sunup</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... and Skeeve? I haven't had a chance to say it, but</div>
  <div class="paragraph">thanks for the bail-out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it," I grinned weakly. "Tell me you</div>
  <div class="paragraph">wouldn't do the same for me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't know," he retorted. "You've never sucker-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">punched me at the beginning of a caper."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now that I still owe you for."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Just then, Vilhelm appeared with the wine, and Aahz</div>
  <div class="paragraph">hurried away to rejoin the group.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I managed to snag a goblet and retired to a secluded</div>
   <div class="paragraph">corner while the party went into high gear. Pepe seemed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to be fitting in well with the rest of the team, if not fu -</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tioning as a combination jester and spark plug, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">somehow I felt a bit distant. Sipping my wine, I stared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off into the distance at nothing in particular, letting my</div>
  <div class="paragraph">thoughts wander.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the trouble, handsome?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hmmm? Oh. Hi, Tananda. Nothing in particular.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Just a little tired, that's all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mind if I join you?" she said, dropping to the floor</div>
   <div class="paragraph">beside me before I could stop her. "So. Are you going</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          127</div>
  <div class="paragraph">to tell me about it? Who is she?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I turned my head slowly to look at her directly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I beg your pardon?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She kept her eyes averted, idly running one finger</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around the rim of her goblet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look," she said, "if you don't want to talk about</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it, just say so ... it's really none of my business. Just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't try to kid me or yourself that there's nothing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bothering you. I've known you a long time now, and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can usually tell when there's something eating you. My</div>
   <div class="paragraph">best guess right now, if I'm any judge of the phenom-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enon, is that it's a girl."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ever since I'd met Tananda, I'd had a crush on her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With her words, though, I suddenly realized how badly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I wanted someone to talk to. I mean, to Guido and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha I was an authority figure, and I wasn't about to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">open up to Aahz until I was sure he'd take the problem</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seriously and not just laugh, and as for Chumley...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how do you talk about woman problems with a troll?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. You got me," I said, looking back into my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wine. "It's a girl."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought so," Tananda smiled. "Where have you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been keeping her? Tell me, is she beautiful and sen-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sitive?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All that and more." I nodded, taking another drink</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from my goblet. "She's also on the wrong side."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Woops," Tananda said, straightening up. "You'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">better run that one past me again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I filled her in on my encounters with Luanna. I tried</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to keep it unbiased and informative, but even I could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tell that my tones were less controlled than I would have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">liked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tananda sat in silence for a few moments after I'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finished, hugging her legs and with her chin propped up</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on her knees.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," she said at last, "from what you say, she's</div>
  <div class="paragraph">128</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">an accomplice at best. Maybe we can let her go after we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get them all rounded up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My voice was flat. Both Tananda and I knew that</div>
  <div class="paragraph">once Aahz got on his high horse there was no telling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">how merciful or vicious he would be at any given point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well, there's always a chance," she insisted. "Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">has always had a soft spot where you're concerned. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you intercede for her, and if she's willing to abandon</div>
  <div class="paragraph">her partners. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and, if a table had wings, we could fly it back to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the Bazaar." I frowned. "No, Tananda. First of all, she</div>
   <div class="paragraph">won't give up her partners just because they're in a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">crunch. That much I know. Besides, if I put that kind of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pressure on her, to choose between me and them, I'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">never know for sure if she really wanted me or if she was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just trying to save her own skin."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda got to her feet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't become so wise that you're stupid, Skeeve,"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she said softly before she left. "Remember, Luanna's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">already chosen you twice over her partners. Both times</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she's risked her life and their getaway to pass you a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">warning. Maybe all she needs is what you haven't yet</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' given her—an invitation for a chance at a new life with a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">new partner. Don't be so proud or insecure that you'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">throw a genuine admirer to the wolves rather than run</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the risk of making a mistake. If you did, I don't think</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd like you much... and I don't think you would</div>
  <div class="paragraph">either."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I pondered Tananda's advice after she'd gone. There</div>
  <div class="paragraph">was one additional complication I hadn't had the nerve</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to mention to her. Whatever Luanna's feelings for me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were, how would they change when she found out I'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">used her scarf... her token of affection, to guide a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pack of hunters to their target?</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36313206" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36313208" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Fifteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Everybody needs a career manager!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—LADY MACBETH</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So where is he?" Aahz grumbled for the hundredth</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time ... in the last five minutes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sun had been up for hours, or at least as up as it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seemed to get in this dimension. Since my arrival in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Limbo, I had never seen what I am accustomed to think-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing of as full sunlight. Whether the constant heavy over-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cast condition which seemed to prevail during daylight</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hours was the result of magic or some strange meteor-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ologic condition I was never sure, but it did nothing to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alleviate the air of gloom that clung to the town of Blut</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like a shroud.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The whole team was impatient to get started, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz was the only one who indulged himself in express-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing his feelings as often ... or as loudly. Of course, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might have been simply that he was making so much of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a fuss that the others were willing to let him provide the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">noise for all of them rather than letting their own efforts</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get constantly upstaged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just take it easy, partner," I said soothingly, strug-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">129</div>
  <div class="paragraph">130</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin                                   MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">131</div>
  <div class="paragraph">gling to keep from snapping at him in my own nervous</div>
   <div class="paragraph">impatience. "There aren't that many all-day stores in</div>
  <div class="paragraph">this dimension."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you expect, dealing with a bunch of vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires," he snapped. "I still don't like this idea. Non-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">magical disguises seem unnatural somehow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I heaved a quiet sigh inside and leaned back to wait,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">propping my feet up on a chair. This particular quarrel</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was old before Vilhelm had left on his shopping trip,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and I was tired going over it again and again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Be reasonable, Aahz," Tananda said, taking up the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slack for me. "You know we can't wander around town</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like this... especially you with half the city looking for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you. We need disguises, and without a decent power</div>
   <div class="paragraph">source, Skeeve here can't handle disguises for all of us.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, it's not like we're using mechanical magic. We</div>
   <div class="paragraph">won't be using magic at all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what everybody keeps telling me," my part-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ner growled. "We're just going to alter our appearances</div>
   <div class="paragraph">without using spells. That sounds like mechanical magic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to me. Do you know what's going to happen to our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reputations if word of this gets back to the Bazaar? Par-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ticularly with most of the competition looking for a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">chance to splash a little mud on the Great Skeeve's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">name? Remember, we're already getting complaints</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that our prices are too high, and if this gets out...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The light dawned. I could finally see what was eating</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at Aahz. I should have known there was money at the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">bottom of this.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Aahz," I chimed in, "our fees are overpriced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've been saying that for months. I mean, it's not like we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">need the money...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">". .. and I've been telling you for months that it's the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only way to keep the riff-raff from draining away all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your practice time," he shot back angrily. "Remember,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your name's supposed to be the Great Skeeve, not the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Red Cross. You don't do charity."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now we were on familiar ground. Unlike the disguise</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing, this was one argument I never tired of.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not talking about charity," I said. "I'm talking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about a fair fee for services rendered."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fair fee?" my partner laughed, rolling his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"You mean like that deal you cut with Watzisname?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did he ever tell you about that one, Tananda? We catch</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a silly bird for this Deveel, see, and my partner charges</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him a flat fee. Not a percentage, mind you, a flat fee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And how much of a flat fee? A hundred gold pieces? A</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thousand. No. TEN. Ten lousy gold pieces. And half an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hour later the Deveel sells his 'poor little bird' for over a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hundred thousand. Nice to know we don't do charity,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">isn't it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon, Aahz," I argued, writhing inside. "That</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was only five minutes' work. How was I supposed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know the silly bird was on the endangered species list?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even .you thought it was a good deal until we heard what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the final sale was. Besides, if I had held out for a per-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">centage and the Deveel had been legit and never sold the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing, we wouldn't have even gotten ten gold pieces out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I never heard the details from your side," Tananda</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, "but what I picked up on the streets was that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">everybody at the Bazaar was really impressed. Most</div>
   <div class="paragraph">folks think that it's a master-stroke of PR for the hot-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">test magician at the Bazaar to help bring a rarity to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">public for a mere fraction of his normal fees. It shows</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he's something other than a cold-hearted businessman</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... that he really cares about people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So what's wrong with being a cold-hearted busi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nessman?" Aahz snorted. "How about the other guy?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everybody thinks he's a villain, and he's crying all the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way to the bank. He retired on the profit from that one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sale alone."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">132</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 133</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Unless Nanny misled me horribly when she taught</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me my numbers," Chumley interrupted, "I figure your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">current bankroll could eat that fellow's profit and still</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have room for lunch. Any reason you're so big on squir-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reling away so much gold, Aahz? Are you planning on</div>
  <div class="paragraph">retiring?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not planning on retiring," my partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">snapped. "And you're missing the point completely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Money isn't the object."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It isn't?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I think everybody grabbed that line at the same time</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... even Pepe, who hadn't known Aahz all that long.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course not. You can always get more gold. What</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can't be replaced is time. We all know Skeeve here has a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">long way to go in the magic department. What the rest</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of you keep forgetting is how short a life span he has to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">play with... maybe a hundred years if he's lucky. All</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm trying to do is get him the maximum learning time</div>
   <div class="paragraph">possible... and that means keeping him from using up</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mos,t of his time on nickel-and-dime adventures. Let the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">smalltime operators do those. My partner shouldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have to budge away from his studies unless the assign-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment is something really spectacular. Something that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">will advance his reputation and his career."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a long silence while everybody digested</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that one, especially me. Since Aahz had accepted me as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a full partner instead of an apprentice, I tended to for-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get his role as my teacher and career manager. Thinking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back now, I could see he had never really given up the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">work, just gotten sneakier. I wouldn't have believed</div>
  <div class="paragraph">that was possible.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How about this particular nickel-and-dime adven-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ture?" Tananda said, breaking the silence. "You know,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pulling your tail out of a scrape? Isn't this a little low-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brow for the kind of legend you're trying to build?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sarcasm in her voice was unmistakable, but it</div>
  <div class="paragraph">didn't phase Aahz in the least.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you'll ask around, you'll find out that I didn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">want him along on this jaunt at all. In fact, I knocked</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him cold trying to keep him out. A top-flight magician</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shouldn't have to stoop to bill collecting, especially</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when the risk is disproportionately high."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, it all sounds a little cold-blooded for my taste,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz," Chumley put in. "If you extend your logic, our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">young friend here is only going to work when the danger</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is astronomically high, and conversely if the advance-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment to his career is enough, no risk is too great. That</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sounds to me like a sure-fire way to lose a partner and a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friend. Like the Geek says, if you keep bucking the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">odds, sooner or later they're going to catch up with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My partner spun to confront the troll nose-to-nose.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course it's going to be dangerous," he snarled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"The magic profession isn't for the faint of heart, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to hit the top he's going to have to be hair-triggered and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mean. There's no avoiding that, but I can try to be sure</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he's ready for it. Why do you think I've been so dead-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">set against him having bodyguards? If he starts relying</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on other people to watch out for him, he's going to lose</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the edge himself. That's when he's in danger of walking</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into a swinging door."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought Guido into the fray.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now let me see if I've got this right," my bodyguard</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said. "You don't want me and my cousin Nunzio</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around so that the Boss here can handle all the trouble</div>
   <div class="paragraph">himself? That's crazy talk, know what I mean? Now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">listen to me, 'cause this time I know what I'm sayin'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The higher someone gets on the ladder, the more folks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">come huntin' for his head. even if they don't do nothin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they got people gunning for them, 'cause they got power</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and respect and there's always somebody who thinks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they can steal it. Now I've seen some of the Big Guys</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">134</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 135</div>
  <div class="paragraph">who try to act just like you're sayin'... they're so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">scared all the time they don't trust nothin' or nobody.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The only one they can count on is themselves, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">everybody else is suspect. That includes total strangers,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">their own bodyguards, their friends, and their partners.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Think about that for a minute."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He leaned back and surveyed the room, addressing</div>
  <div class="paragraph">his next comments to everyone.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"People like that don't last long. They don't trust</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nobody, so they got nobody. Ya can't do everything</div>
   <div class="paragraph">alone and sooner or later they're lookin' the wrong way</div>
   <div class="paragraph">or asleep when they should be watchin' and it's all over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now I've done a lot of jobs as a bodyguard, and they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were just jobs, know what I mean? The Boss here is dif-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ferent, and I'm not just sayin' that. He's the best man</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I've met in my whole life because he likes people and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ain't afraid to show it. More important, he ain't afraid</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to risk his neck to help somebody even if it isn 't in his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">best interest. I work double hard for him because I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't want to see anything happen to him ... and if that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">means comin' along on weird trips like this, then that's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the way it is. Anybody that wants to hurt him is gonna</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have to come through me ... and that includes fightin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">any of you if you want to try to turn him into somethin'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he isn't and doesn't want to be."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha broke in with a loud clapping of her hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Bravo, Guido," she said. "I think your problem,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Green and Scaly, is that your idea of success is out of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">step with everyone else's. We all want to see good things</div>
   <div class="paragraph">happen for Skeeve, here, but we also like him just the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">way he is. We've got enough faith in his good sense to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back him in whatever move he makes in his develop-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment... without trying to frog-march or trick him up a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">specific path."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz not only gave ground before this onslaught of</div>
  <div class="paragraph">protest, he seemed to shrink in a little on himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I like him too," he mumbled. "I've known him</div>
   <div class="paragraph">longer than any of you, remember? He's doing fine, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he could be so much more. How can he choose a path if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he can't see it? All I'm trying to do is set him up to be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bigger than I ... than we could ever think of being</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ourselves. What's wrong with that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite my irritation at having my life discussed as if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I weren't in the room, I was quite touched, by my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends' loyal defense of me, and most of all by Aahz.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know, partner," I said softly, "for a minute</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there, you sounded just like my father. He wanted me to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be the best... or more specifically, to be better than he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was. My mom always tried to tell me that it was because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he loved me, but at that time it just sounded like he was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">always being critical. Maybe she was right... I'm more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">inclined to believe it today than I was then, but then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">again, I'm older now. If nothing else, I've had to try to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tell people I love them when the words just won't come</div>
   <div class="paragraph">. .. and gotten upset with myself when they couldn't see</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it when I tried to show them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz, I appreciate your concern and I want your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">guidance. You're right, there are paths and options I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can't even comprehend yet. But I also have to choose</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my own way. I want to be better eventually than I am</div>
   <div class="paragraph">today, but not necessarily the best. I think Guide's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">right, there's a big price tag attached to being at the top,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and I'd want to think long and hard if I wanted to pay it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... even if I was convinced I could, which I'm not. I do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know that if it means giving up the trust I have in you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and everybody else in this room, I'll settle for being a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nickel-and-dime operator. That price I'll never pay will-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ingly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Silence started to descend again as each of us re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">treated into his or her own thoughts, then the werewolf</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bounded into the middle of the assemblage.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But what is this, eh?" he demanded. "Surely this</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">136</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">cannot be ze great team of Aahz and Skeeve, ze ones</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who can laugh at any dan-gair? "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know, Pepe," Aahz said warningly, "you've</div>
   <div class="paragraph">got a great future as a stuffed head."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My head?" The werewolf blinked. "But she is not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... oohh. I see now. You make ze joke, eh? Good. Zat</div>
  <div class="paragraph">is more like it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and as far as laughing at danger goes," I joined</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in, determined to hold up my end of the legend, "the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only danger I see here is dying of boredom. Where is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vilhelm anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know you and Aahz are fond of each other,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Skeeve," Chumley yawned, "but you've got to spend</div>
   <div class="paragraph">more time with other people. You're starting to sound</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like him. Maybe you can tag along the next time I have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an assignment."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Over my dead body," my partner said. "Besides,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what could he learn from a troll that I couldn't teach</div>
  <div class="paragraph">him myself?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"J could teach him not to catch birds for Deveels for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ten gold pieces," the troll grinned, winking at his sister.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"That seems to be a part of his education you've ne-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">glected."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Izzat so!" my partner bristled. "You're going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">teach him about price setting? How about the time you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">set your own sister up to steal an elephant without</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bothering to check...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">. And they were off again. As I listened, I found myself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reflecting on the fact that while it was nice to know the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">depths of my friends' feelings about me, it was far more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">comfortable when they managed to conceal it under a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cloak of banter. For the most part, open sincerity is</div>
   <div class="paragraph">harder to take than friendly laughter.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36314276" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36314278" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Sixteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"Don't be fooled by appearances."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—MALLOY</div>
  <div class="paragraph">THINGS were pretty much back to normal by the time</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vilhelm returned with our disguises... which was a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">good thing as the process of masking-up proved to be a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">test of everybody's sense of humor.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Until I had hooked up with Aahz, I had never had oc-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">casion to pretend I was anyone but myself. As such, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had no way of knowing how long it took to don a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">physical disguise without resorting to magic. By the time</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were done, I had a new respect for the skills I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">learned, not to mention a real longing for a dimension</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... any dimension with a strong force line to work with.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tananda was a major help, her experiences with the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">assassin's guild came into play and she took the lead in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">trying to coach us into our new roles.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guido, straighten up!" she commanded, exaspera-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion creeping into her voice. "You walk like a gang-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ster."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I am a gangster!" my bodyguard snarled back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">137</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">138 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 139</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Besides, what's wrong with the way I walk? It got us to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the jail, didn't it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Half the town wasn't looking for you then," Ta-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nanda argued. "Besides, then you could pick your own</div>
   <div class="paragraph">route. We don't know where the opposition's holed up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">We're going to have to walk through crowds on this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hunt, and that walk just doesn't make it. Ninety percent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of costuming is learning to move like the character</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're trying to portray. Right now you move like</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're looking for a fight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Try walking like Don Bruce," I suggested. "He's a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">gangster, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That earned me a black look, but my bodyguard tried</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to follow my instructions, rising up on the balls of his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">feet and mincing along.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Better," Tananda said, leaving Guido prancing up</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and down the room with a scowl on his face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How are we doing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lousy," she confided in me. "This is taking a lot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">longer, than it should. I wish there were more mirrors in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">this place... heck, any mirrors would be nice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It hadn't been until we started gearing up that we real-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ized the Dispatcher had no mirrors at all. He claimed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they weren't popular or necessary among vampires.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This left us with the unenviable job of checking each</div>
   <div class="paragraph">others' make-up and costumes, a chore which would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have been Homeric even if less sensitive egos were in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">volved.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How're my teeth?" Massha demanded, sticking her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">head in front of me and opening her mouth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was like staring into the depths of an underground</div>
  <div class="paragraph">cave.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm ... the left side is okay, but you're still miss-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing a few on the right. Hang on a second and I'll give</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you a hand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Teeth were turning out to be a special problem. We</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had hoped to find some of the rubber fangs so prevalent</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in the Bazaar novelty stores to aid in our disguises. Un-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fortunately, none of the shops in Blut had them. The</div>
   <div class="paragraph">closest thing they had in stock, according to Vilhelm,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were rubber sets of human teeth designed to fit over</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fangs. The vampire assured us that locally they were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">considered quite frightening. Faced by this unforeseen</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shortage, we were resorting to using tooth-black to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blacken all our teeth except the canines for a close ap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">proximation of the vampires we were trying to imitate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When we tried it out, it wasn't a bad effect, but the ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tual application was causing countless problems. When</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one tried to apply the stuff on oneself without a mirror,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it was difficult to get the right teeth, and if one called on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one's friends for assistance, one rapidly found that said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friend was soon possessed by an overpowering impulse</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to paint one's tongue black instead of the teeth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't like this cloak," Guido announced, grabbing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my arm. "I want to wear my trench coat."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Vampires don't wear trench coats," I said firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Besides, the cloak really looks great on you. Makes</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you look ... I don't know, debonair but menacing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" he retorted skeptically, craning his neck to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">try to see himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think you've got problems?" Massha burst in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Look at what I'm supposed to wear! I'll trade your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cloak for this rig any day."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As you might have noticed, the team was having more</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than a little difficulty adapting to their disguises.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha in particular was rebelling against her costume.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After having been floated over our escape like a bal-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">loon over a parade, we feared that she would be one of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the most immediately recognizable of our group. As</div>
   <div class="paragraph">such, we not only dyed her garish orange hair, we in-</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">140</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">sisted that her new costume cover as much of her as pos-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sible. To this end, Vilhelm had found a dress he called a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"moo-moo," a name which did nothing toward endear-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing the garment to my apprentice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I mean, really. High Roller," she said, backing me</div>
  <div class="paragraph">toward a corner. "Isn't it bad enough that half the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">town's seen me as a blimp? Tell me I don't have to be a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">cow now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Honest, Massha," Vilhelm put in. "The style is</div>
  <div class="paragraph">fairly popular here in Blut. A lot of the ladies wear it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who are ... that is, are a bit...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fat!?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She loomed over the little vampire.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is that the word you're groping for, Short and</div>
  <div class="paragraph">About To Become Extinct?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let's face it, dear," Tananda said, coming to the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rescue. "You are carrying a little extra weight there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Believe me, if there's one time you can't kid yourself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about your body, it's when you're donning costumes. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anything, that outfit makes you look a little slimmer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't try to kid a kidder, sweetie," Massha sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"But you're right about the costuming thing. This thing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is so drab, though. First I'm a blimp, and now I'm an</div>
  <div class="paragraph">army tent."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now that I'll agree with," Tananda nodded. "Trust</div>
  <div class="paragraph">a man to find a drab mu-mu. Tell you what. There's a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">scarf I was going to use for a belt, but maybe you could</div>
  <div class="paragraph">wear it around your neck."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was afraid that last crack would touch off another</div>
   <div class="paragraph">explosion, but Massha took it as a helpful suggestion</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and the two of them went off in search of other possible</div>
  <div class="paragraph">adornments.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Got a minute, partner?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the tone of Aahz's voice, I knew the moment I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">had been dreading had arrived.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          141</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chumley didn't have to worry about a disguise at all,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as trolls were not uncommon in this dimension. Ta-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nanda also insisted that she looked enough like a vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pire to pass with only minimal modifications. I hadn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">seen any vampires withgreen hair, but she claimed that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">she had, so, as always, I yielded to her greater ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">perience in these matters. I was also on the "minimal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">disguise" list, everyone agreeing that no one in Blut had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">gotten enough of a look at me to fix the image in their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mind. While I wasn't wild about being so unmemorable,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I went along with it ... especially when I saw what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido and Massha were going through. The problems</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with those two notables have already been mentioned:</div>
  <div class="paragraph">troublesome, but not insurmountable. Then there was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz....</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is there something wrong?" I asked innocently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You bet your dragon there's something wrong!" my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">partner snarled. "And don't try to play innocent with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me! It didn't work when you were my apprentice, and it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sure isn't going to work now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz's disguise had presented us with some knotty</div>
   <div class="paragraph">problems. Not only was he the most wanted member of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our party, he was also easily the most distinctive. After</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the trial and his time in jail, it was doubtful that there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was a single citizen of Blut who wouldn't recognize him</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on sight. I mean, there just aren't that many scaly green</div>
   <div class="paragraph">demons wandering around any dimension... except</div>
   <div class="paragraph">possibly his home dimension of Perv. It was therefore</div>
   <div class="paragraph">decided... almost unanimously... that not only</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would we change my partner's color with make-up, but</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that it would also be necessary to change his sex.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Does this, perchance, have something to do with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">your disguise?" I inquired, trying to keep a straight</div>
  <div class="paragraph">face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Yes, it has something to do with my disguise," he</div>
  <div class="paragraph">142</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">mimicked, "and, so help me, partner or no, if you let</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that smile get away, I'll punch your lights out. Under-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stand?"</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With a great effort I sucked my cheeks in and bit my</div>
  <div class="paragraph">lower lip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Seriously, though," he said, almost pleading, "a</div>
  <div class="paragraph">joke's a joke, but you don't really expect me to go out in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">public looking like this, do you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In addition to the aforementioned make-up, Aahz's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">disguise required a dress and a wig. Because of the size</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of his head (a problem Vilhelm had wisely down-played</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as much as possible) the selection of wigs available had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been understandably small. In fact, the only available in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his size was a number called "Lady Go-GoDiva," which</div>
   <div class="paragraph">involved a high blonde beehive style offset by a long</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ponytail that hung down to his knees. Actually, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ponytail turned out to be a blessing in disguise, as the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dark blue dress Vilhelm had selected for my partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turned out to have an exceptionally low neckline, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the hair draped over his shoulder helped hide the prob-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lem we had had finding ample or suitable material to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">stuff his bosom with.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"As my wise old mentor once told me when I was</div>
  <div class="paragraph">faced with a similar dilemma," I said sagely, "what</div>
   <div class="paragraph">does it matter what people think of you? They aren't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">supposed to know it's you, anyway. That's the whole</div>
  <div class="paragraph">idea of a disguise."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But this get-up is humiliating!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My words precisely when someone else I could name</div>
   <div class="paragraph">deemed it necessary for me to dress up as a girl, remem-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ber?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're enjoying this, aren't you?" Aahz glowered,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">peering at me suspiciously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, there are a couple of other options," I ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mitted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          143</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's more like it!" he grinned, reaching for his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wig.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You could stay behind. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His hand stopped just short of its mission.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... or we could forget the whole thing and pay the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fine ourselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The hand retreated as my partner's shoulders sagged</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in defeat. I felt no joy at the victory. If anything, I had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">been half hoping he would be embarrassed enough to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take me up on my suggestion of abandoning the project.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I should have known better. When there's money in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">volved, it takes more than embarrassment to throw</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz off the scent....hether the embarrassment is his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">own or someone else's.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right, everybody,"- I called, hiding my disap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pointment. "Are we ready to go?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Remember your sunglasses!" Tananda added.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was the final touch to our disguises. To hide our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">non-red eyes, each of us donned a pair of sunglasses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Surveying the final result, I had to admit that aside from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda and Chumley, we didn't look like us. Exactly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what we did look like I wouldn't venture to say, but we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sure didn't look like usi</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay," Aahz chimed in, his discomfort apparently</div>
   <div class="paragraph">behind him. "Does everyone have their marching</div>
   <div class="paragraph">orders? Vilhelm? Are you sure you can track us on that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No problem," the little vampire nodded. "When</div>
   <div class="paragraph">things get slow around here I use this rig to do a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">window peeking right here in town. Covering the streets</div>
   <div class="paragraph">is even easier."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Remember," I told him, "watch for our signal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When we catch up with this Vic character, we're going</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to want you to get some responsible local witnesses there</div>
   <div class="paragraph">chop-chop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">144</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well now," Aahz grinned evilly, "you don't have to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be too quick about it. I wouldn't mind having a little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time alone with him before we turn him over to the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">authorities."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">My heart sank a little. Aahz sounded determined to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">exact a bit of vengeance out of this hunt, and I wasn't at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all sure he would restrict himself to Vic when it came</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time to express his ire.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I think Tananda noticed my concern.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ease up a little, Aahz," she said casually. "I don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mind helping you out of a tight spot, but count me out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when it comes to excessive force for the sake of venge-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ance. It lacks class."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Since when did you worry about excessive vio-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lence?" Aahz growled, then shrugged his acceptance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Okay. But maybe we'll get lucky. Maybe he'll resist ar-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was still worried, but realized that that was about</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the most restraint I would get out of my partner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">."Now that that's settled," I said, producing Lu-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anna's scarf, "Pepe, take a whiff of this."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enchanting," he smiled, nuzzling the piece of cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"A young lady, no? Eef ze body is as good as ze aroma,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I will follow her to the end of ze world whether you ac-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">company me or not."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I resisted an impulse to wrap the scarf around his</div>
  <div class="paragraph">neck and pull.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right, everybody," I said, retrieving the scarf</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and tucking it back into my tunic in what I hoped was a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">casual manner. "Let's go catch us a renegade vampire."</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_18" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36315286" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36315288" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Seventeen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"The trail's got to be 'round here some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">where!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—D. BOONE</div>
  <div class="paragraph">IT was only a few hours short of sunset as we set out on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our quest, a nagging reminder of exactly how long our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">efforts at physical disguise had taken. We had agreed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">avoid following Pepe as a group so as not to attract at-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tention. Instead, we moved singly or in groups of two,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">using both sides of the street and deliberately walking at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">different paces. The faster walkers averaged their prog-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ress with the slower by occasionally stopping to look</div>
   <div class="paragraph">into shop windows, thereby keeping our group together</div>
   <div class="paragraph">without actually appearing to. Tananda pointed out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that not only would this procedure lessen our chances of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being noticed, but also that it would maximize our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">chances for at least some of the group's escape if one of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">us should be discovered ... a truly comforting thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Even though Luanna had claimed to have been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">watching for us at the Dispatcher's, it had been so long</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ago I fully expected her scent would have long since</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dissipated or at least been masked by the passage of</div>
  <div class="paragraph">145</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">146</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          147</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">numerous others. As such, I was moderately surprised</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when the werewolf signaled almost immediately that he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had found the trail and headed off with a determined</div>
   <div class="paragraph">air. Either her scent was stronger than I had thought, or</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I bad grossly underestimated Pepe's tracking ability.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The trail wound up and down the cobblestoned</div>
   <div class="paragraph">streets, and we followed as quickly as we could without</div>
   <div class="paragraph">abandoning our pretense of being casual strollers who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">did not know each other. For a while, our group made</div>
   <div class="paragraph">up the majority of the beings visible, causing me to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doubt the effectiveness of our ruse, but soon the vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires began to emerge to indulge their taste for the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nightlife and we became much less obvious.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was paired up with Chumley, but the troll was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">strangely quiet as we made our way along. At first I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thought he was simply concentrating on keeping the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">werewolf in sight, but as time wore on, I found the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">silence somehow unnerving. I had always respected</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Chumley as being one of the saner, leveler heads among</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our motley assemblage, and I was starting to have an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">uneasy impression that he was not wholeheartedly be-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hind this venture.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is there something bothering you, Chumley?" I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">asked at last.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hmmm? Oh. Not really, Skeeve. I was just think-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"About that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The troll let out a small sigh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was just contemplating our adversary, this Vic</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fellow. You know, from what's been said, he's quite</div>
   <div class="paragraph">resourceful in a devious sort of way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That took me a little aback. So far I had considered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our vampire foe to be everything from an annoyance to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a nemesis. The idea of studying his methods had never</div>
   <div class="paragraph">entered my mind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What leads you to that conclusion?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The troll pursed his lips as he organized his thoughts.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Consider what he's accomplished so far. The entire</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time we've known of him, he's been on the run... first</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from the Deveels, and then from Aahz, who's no slouch</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sti^wnn.ing people once he sets his mind to it. Now,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">assuming for the moment that Vic is actually the brains</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of the group, he was quick enough to take advantage of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">being left alone in your waiting room to escape out the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back door. He couldn't have planned that in advance,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">even knowing about the door. He probably had some</div>
   <div class="paragraph">other plan in mind, and formulated this new course of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">action on the spot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">We paused for a moment to let a small group of vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires cross the intersection in front of us.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now, that would have sufficed for an escape in most</div>
   <div class="paragraph">instances, but they happened to pick an exit route that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">left you and Aahz responsible, which set your partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on their trail," Chumley continued. "With nothing to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">go on but your reputations. Vic not only correctly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">deduced that he would be followed, but he also man-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">aged to spot Aahz's weakness and exploit it to frame</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him and make it stick... again, not the easiest task,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">particularly realizing it involved convincing and coach-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing his two accomplices in their roles."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">All of this was doing nothing for my peace of mind. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was having enough difficulty forcing myself to believe</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that we were really hunting a vampire, the sort of crea-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ture 1 normally avoid at all costs, without having to deal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with the possibility that he was shrewd and resourceful</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as well. Still, I had learned that ignoring unpleasant</div>
   <div class="paragraph">elements of a caper was perhaps the worst way to pre-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pare for them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Keep going," I urged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," the troll sighed, "when you stumbled on his</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">148</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">hiding place at the Woof Writers, he didn't panic. He</div>
   <div class="paragraph">waited to hear as much of your plans as possible, all the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">while taking advantage of the opportunity to assess you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">first-hand, then timed his escape so as to catch you all</div>
  <div class="paragraph">flat-footed."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I digested this distasteful addition to the rapidly</div>
  <div class="paragraph">growing data file. "Do you really think he was sizing me</div>
  <div class="paragraph">up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's no doubt in my mind. Not only was he</div>
  <div class="paragraph">gauging your skills and determination, he was successful</div>
   <div class="paragraph">enough at second-guessing you, based on the results of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his studies, to be waiting to sound the alarm when you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">busted Aahz out of jail. ... a particularly bold move</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when one realizes that he was running the risk of being</div>
   <div class="paragraph">recognized, which would have blown his frame-up of</div>
  <div class="paragraph">your partner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bold or desperate," I said thoughtfully. "That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">probably why he waited until we had actually sprung</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz and were on the way down before he blew the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whistle. If we had gotten away unscathed, then the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">frame would be useless, so at that point he really wasn't</div>
  <div class="paragraph">risking anything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Have it your way," the troll shrugged. "The final</div>
  <div class="paragraph">analysis remains that we have one tough nut to crack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One can only wonder what he will do when we catch up</div>
  <div class="paragraph">with him this time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If he's performing up to par, it could be rough on</div>
  <div class="paragraph">us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chumley shot me a sidelong glance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually, I was thinking it could be rough on your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lady fair ... if he has managed to observe the feelings</div>
  <div class="paragraph">you have for her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I started to protest, then the impact of his theory hit</div>
  <div class="paragraph">me and my embarrassment gave way to concern.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is it really that apparent? Do you think he could</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          149</div>
  <div class="paragraph">spot it? If so, he might already have done something to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Luanna for having contacted us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It stands out all over you to anyone who knows</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you," Chumley said, shaking his head. "As for some-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one watching you for the first time ... I just don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know. He'd be more likely to deduce it from the in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">formation you had... such as his name. That kind of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">data had to come from somewhere, though there's an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">outside chance that with your current reputation he'll</div>
   <div class="paragraph">assume that you gleaned it by some magical source."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I barely heard him. My mind was focused on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">possibility that Luanna might be hurt, and that I might</div>
   <div class="paragraph">indirectly have been the cause. A black well of guilt was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rising up to swallow me, when I felt a hand on my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shoulder.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't tune out now, Skeeve," Chumley was saying,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shaking me slightly. "First of all, we're going to need</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you shortly. Secondly, even if Vic's figured out that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're in love with her, I don't think he'll have hurt her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If anything, he'll save her for a trump card to use</div>
   <div class="paragraph">against us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I drew a deep ragged breath.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... and he'll be just the bastard to do it, too," I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said. "I don't know what I'll be able to do, for us or for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her, but I'll be ready to try. Thanks, Chumley."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The troll was studying me closely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Actually, I wasn't thinking that he was such a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">blighter," he said. "More like a clever, resourceful per-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">son who's gotten in over his head and is trying his best</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to ad-lib his way out. Frankly, Skeeve old boy, in many</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ways he reminds me of you. You might think about that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">when attempting to appraise his likely courses of action</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and how to counter them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tried again to weigh what he was saying, but all I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could think about was what the consequences of this</div>
  <div class="paragraph">150</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">hunt could mean to Luanna. It was difficult enough for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me to accept that we would have to force Luanna and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">her cohorts to answer to the authorities for their in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">discretions, but the thought of placing her in physical</div>
  <div class="paragraph">danger was unbearable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I looked around for Aahz, fully intending to put an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">end to this hunt once and for all. To my surprise, the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rest of the group was assembled on the corner ahead,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and my partner was beckoning us to join them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" I asked, almost to myself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Just off-hand," Chumley replied, "I'd say we've</div>
  <div class="paragraph">reached our destination."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cold wave of fear washed over me, and I hurried to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the rendezvous with Chumley close behind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're in luck," Aahz announced as I arrived.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Guido here says he saw Vic entering the building just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">as we got here. It's my guess they're all inside right</div>
  <div class="paragraph">now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aahz, I—I want us to quit right now," I blurted,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">painfully aware of how weak it sounded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh?" my partner said, cocking an eyebrow at me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">. "Any particular reason?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I licked my lips, feeling the eyes of the whole group</div>
  <div class="paragraph">on me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Only one. I'm in love with one of the fugitives...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the girl."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Now tell me something I didn't know," Aahz</div>
  <div class="paragraph">smirked, winking at me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You knew?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All of us knew. In fact, we were just discussing it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Remember, we all know you... and me probably best</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of all. It's already been pretty much decided to let your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">love-light go. Think of it as a present from us to you.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The other two are ours."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Five minutes ago, that would have made me deliri-</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          151</div>
  <div class="paragraph">ously happy. Now, it only seemed to complicate things.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Chumley was just saying that there's a chance</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they might hurt her if they find out she helped us," I ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">plained desperately. "Can't we just let them all go?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not a chance, partner," Aahz said firmly. "In addi-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tion to our original reasons, you've just mentioned the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">new one. Your girlfriend could be in trouble, and the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">only way to be sure she's safe is to remove her partners</div>
   <div class="paragraph">.. .Fast."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Believe him, Skeeve," Tananda urged. "It may not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be nice, but it's the best way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really, Boss," Guido said quietly. "Unless we fin-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ish this thing here and now, you're never goin' to know</div>
   <div class="paragraph">if she's safe, know what I mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That almost made sense, but I was still worried. "I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't know, Aahz. ..."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well I do," my partner snapped. "And the longer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we stand down here, the more chance there is that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they'll either get away or set up a trap. If you're uncer-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tain, stay down here ... in fact, that's not a bad idea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Massha, you stay down here with him in case they try to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bolt out this way. While you're waiting, watch for the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">witnesses that Vilhelm's supposed to be sending along.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tananda, you and Chumley and Guido come along with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me. This is a job for experienced hard-cases. Pepe, we</div>
   <div class="paragraph">appreciate your help, but this isn't really your fight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But of course." The werewolf grinned. "Besides, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">am a lo-var, not a figh-tar. I will wait here to see the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finale, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But Aahz.. .."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really, partner, you'll be more help down here. This</div>
   <div class="paragraph">isn't your kind of fight, and we need someone to deal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with the witnesses. You're good at that kind of thing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was going to ask if you had given the signal to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vilhelm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">152              Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"S'ignal?" Aahz blinked. "How's this for a signal?!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, he tore off his wig and threw it on the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ground, followed closely by his dress.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think he'll get the message? Besides, no way am I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going to try to fight in that get-up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now you're talkin'!" Guido crowed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In a flash he had discarded his cloak and was pulling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on his now-familiar trench coat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where did that come from?" I demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Had it with me all the time," the bodyguard said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">smugly. "It would have been like leaving an old friend</div>
  <div class="paragraph">behind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, if you and your old friend are ready," Ta-</div>
  <div class="paragraph">nanda murmured, "we'd better get started.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Itching for action?" Aahz grinned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. More like eager to get off the street," she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Since you boys have shown your true colors, we're</div>
  <div class="paragraph">starting to draw a crowd."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Sure enough, the vampires on the street had ceased</div>
   <div class="paragraph">whatever they had been doing before and were gathering</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in knots, whispering together and pointing at our group.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Umm... we'd better finish this fast," Aahz said,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shooting a nervous glance around. "All right, gang.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Let's go for the gusto!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go for the what?" I asked, but they were already on</div>
  <div class="paragraph">their way into the building.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I noticed they were all moving faster than normal. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">also noticed that Massha, Pepe, and I were the only</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ones left on the street... and now the crowd was point-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing at us!</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_19" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36316444" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36316446" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Eighteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"I didn't come all this way to sit out the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fight!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—R. BALBOA</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"WHAT'S going on?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I looked around to find that one of the vampires had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">detached himself from his group of friends and was ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dressing me directly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beats me," Massha interceded. "A bunch of off-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">worlder types just took off into that building with blood</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in their eyes. I'm waiting to see what happens next."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Far out," the vampire breathed, peering toward the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">structure. "I haven't seen that many off-worlders in one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">place except in the flickers. Wasn't one of them that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">escaped murderer, Aahz?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I really didn't want this character to join our little</div>
   <div class="paragraph">group. While our disguises seemed to be holding up</div>
   <div class="paragraph">under casual inspection, I was pretty sure that pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">longed close scrutiny would reveal not only the non-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">local nature of Massha and myself, but also the fact that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we were trying to hide it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You may be right," I said, playing a hunch. "If so,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">153</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">154</div>
  <div class="paragraph">it's a good thing you happened along. We're going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">need all the help we can get."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Help? Help for what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why to catch the murderer, of course. We can't let</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him get away again. I figure it's our duty to stop him</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ourselves or at least slow him up until the authorities ar-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rive."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We? You mean the three of you? You're going to</div>
  <div class="paragraph">try to stop a murderer all by yourselves?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Four of us now that you're here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The vampire started backing away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... actually I've got to get back to my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends. We're on our way to a party. Sorry I can't help,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but I'll spread the word that you're looking for vol-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unteers, okay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, thanks," I called as if I believed him. "We'll</div>
  <div class="paragraph">be right here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By the time I had finished speaking, he had disap-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">peared into the crowd. Mission accomplished.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nicely done, my friend," Pepe murmured. "He</div>
   <div class="paragraph">does not, how you say, want to get involved, no?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right," I said, my eyes "on the building again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"And to tell you the truth, I'm not too wild about the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">idea either. What do you think, Massha? It's awfully</div>
  <div class="paragraph">quiet in there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll say," my apprentice agreed. "I'm just trying to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">figure out if that's a good or a bad sign. Another ten</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minutes and I'm heading in there to check it out my-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">self."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I nodded my consent, even though I doubted she saw</div>
   <div class="paragraph">it. We both had our eyes glued to the building, mem-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">orizing its every detail.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was a four-story structure ... or it would be if it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">weren't for the curved peak that jutted out from the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">roof fully half-again as high as the main building. It</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS          155</div>
  <div class="paragraph">looked as if the builder had suddenly added the adorn-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ment in a last-minute attempt to have his work stand as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tall or taller than its neighbors. From the number of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">windows in the main structure, I guessed it was an</div>
   <div class="paragraph">apartment building or a hotel or something. In short, it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">looked like it had a lot of little rooms. I found myself</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wondering exactly how our strike force was supposed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">locate their target without kicking in every door in the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">place ... a possibility I wouldn't put past Aahz.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I was about to express this fear to Massha when a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">loud crash sounded from within.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What was that?" I demanded of no one in par-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ticular.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sounded like a loud crash," my apprentice supplied</div>
   <div class="paragraph">helpfully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I forced myself to remember 'that no one out here</div>
   <div class="paragraph">knew any more about what was going on inside than I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">did.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After the crash, everything was quiet once more. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tried to tell myself that the noise might have nothing at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">all to do with the strike force, but I didn't believe it for a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">minute. The crowd was talking excitedly to each other</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and straining to see the various windows. They seemed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">quite confident that something else would happen soon,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">much more than I, but then again, maybe as city dwel-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lers they were more accustomed to such vigils than I.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Suddenly, Tananda appeared in the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Did they come out this way?" she called.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"No one's been in or out since you went in," I re-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">sponded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She swore and started to re-enter the building.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"What happened?" I shouted desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"We nailed one of them, but Vic got away. He's loose</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in the building somewhere, and he's got the girl with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">156 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">157</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, she disappeared before I could make any</div>
   <div class="paragraph">further inquiries.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Terrific.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Exciting, eh?" Pepe said. "I tell you, I could watch</div>
   <div class="paragraph">such a chase for hours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, I can't," I snapped. "I've had it with sitting</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the sidelines. Massha? I'm going in there. Want to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">come?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I dunno. Hot Stuff. I'd like to, but somebody</div>
   <div class="paragraph">should be here to plug this escape route."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fine. You wait here, and I'll...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I turned to enter the building and bumped headlong</div>
   <div class="paragraph">intoVilhelm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What are you doing here?" I demanded, not really</div>
   <div class="paragraph">caring.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Dispatcher shook his head slightly to clear it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Being smaller, he had gotten the worse ofour collision.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm here with the witnesses, remember? I was sup-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posed to bring them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">, "You were supposed to send them. Oh well, where</div>
   <div class="paragraph">are they?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right here," he said, gesturing to a sullen group of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">vampires standing behind him. "This is Kirby, and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Paul, and Richard, and Adele, and Scott... some of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the most respected citizens in town. Convince them and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you're home free."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Looking at the group, I suddenly realized how Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had ended up on death row. If the jury had been any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing like these specimens, they would have hung their</div>
   <div class="paragraph">own mothers for jaywalking. While I didn't relish the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thought of trying to convince them of anything, I found</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself being very glad I didn't have to deal with them</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on a regular basis.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. So we're here," the one identified as Kirby</div>
   <div class="paragraph">growled. "Just what is it we're supposed to be wit-</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">nessing? If this is one of your cockamamie deals, Vil-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">helm...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I interrupted simply by taking my sunglasses off and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">opening my eyes wide, displaying their whites. The bad</div>
   <div class="paragraph">reputation of humans in this dimension was sufficient to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">capture their undivided attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps you recall a certain murder trial that took</div>
   <div class="paragraph">place not too long ago?" I said, trying to work the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">toothblack off with my tongue. "Well, the convicted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">murderer who escaped is my partner, and right now he's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">inside that building. He and a few of our friends are</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about to show you one surprisingly lively corpse...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">specifically the fellow that my partner is supposed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have killed. I trust that will be sufficient to convince you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of his innocence?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">While the vampires were taken aback by my presence</div>
   <div class="paragraph">in their midst, they recovered quickly. Like I said, they</div>
   <div class="paragraph">were real hard cases and didn't stay impressed very</div>
   <div class="paragraph">long.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So how much time is this going to take?" Kirby said</div>
   <div class="paragraph">impatiently. "I'm giving up my sleep for this, and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">don't get much of it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was a good question, so, not having an answer, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stalled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You sleep nights? I thought...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm a day owl," the vampire waved. "It's easier to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get my work done when the phone isn't ringing every</div>
   <div class="paragraph">five minutes... which usually means waiting until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">everyone else is asleep. But we're getting off the subject.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bottom line is that my time is valuable, and the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">same holds true for my colleagues. If you think we're</div>
   <div class="paragraph">going to just stand around here until...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a sudden outcry from the crowd, and we all</div>
   <div class="paragraph">looked to find them talking excitedly and pointing up at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the roof.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">158</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A figure had emerged, fighting to pick his way across</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the steeply sloped surface while dragging a struggling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">girl by one arm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Vic!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This was the first time I had gotten a clear look at my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">foe, and I was moderately surprised. He was younger</div>
   <div class="paragraph">than I had expected, barely older than myself, and in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stead of a menacing cloak, he was sporting a white</div>
   <div class="paragraph">turtleneck and sunglasses. It suddenly occurred to me</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that if sunglasses enabled me to pass for a vampire, that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they would also let a vampire pass undetected among</div>
  <div class="paragraph">humans.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The vampire suddenly stopped as his path was barred</div>
  <div class="paragraph">by Tananda, who appeared as if by magic over the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">edge of the roof. He turned to retrace his steps, only to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">find that the trio of Aahz, Guido, and Chumley had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">emerged behind him, cutting off his retreat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I believe, gentlemen and lady, that up there is the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">elusive body that started this whole thing," I heard</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself saying. "If you can spare a few more moments, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think my colleagues will have him in custody so that you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">might interrogate him at your leisure."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't be too sure of that. High Roller," Massha</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cautioned. "Look!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His chosen routes of escape cut off. Vic was now</div>
   <div class="paragraph">scrabbling up the roof peak itself, Luanna hanging in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his grip. While I had to admire his strength, I was a. a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">loss to understand what he was trying to accomplish</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with the manuever. It was obvious that he had been ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">posed, so why didn't he just give it up?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The answer became apparent in the next few mo-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ments. Reaching the apex of the roof, the vampire</div>
   <div class="paragraph">underwent a chilling metamorphosis. Before the strike</div>
   <div class="paragraph">force could reach him, he hunched forward and huge</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">159</div>
  <div class="paragraph">batwings began to grow and spread from his back. His</div>
   <div class="paragraph">plans gone awry, he was getting ready to escape.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In immediate response to his efforts, Tananda and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido both produced projectile weapons and shouted</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something to him. Though the distance was too great to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">make out the words clearly, it was obvious to me that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">they were threatening to shoot him down if he tried to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take to the air.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We may have a murder case yet," Kirby murmured,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">squinting to watch the rooftop drama unfold.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Murder?" I exclaimed, turning on him. "How can</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you call it murder if they're only trying to keep from</div>
   <div class="paragraph">escaping your justice? "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That wasn't what I meant," the vampire said, never</div>
   <div class="paragraph">taking his eyes from the action. "Check it out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I looked ... and my heart stood still.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz had been trying to ease up the roof peak closer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to Vic and his hostage. Vic must have seen him, because</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he was now holding Luanna out over the drop as he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pointed an angry finger at my partner. The threat was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unmistakable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know, eet is people like zat who give ze vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pires a bad name, eh?" Pepe said, nudging me.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I ignored him, lost in my own anxiety and frustration</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at the stalemated situation. A noticeably harder jab</div>
   <div class="paragraph">from Massha broke my reverie, however.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Hot Stuff. Do you see what I see?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tore my gaze away from the confrontation and shot</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a glance her way. She was standing motionless, her</div>
   <div class="paragraph">brow furrowed with concentration and her eyes closed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took me a few moments to realize what she was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">doing, then I followed suit, scarcely daring to hope.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There it was! A force line! A big, strong, beautiful,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">glorious force line.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">160 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had gotten so used to not having any magical energy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">at my disposal in this dimension that I hadn't even</div>
   <div class="paragraph">bothered to check!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I opened myself to the energy, relished it for a fleet</div>
   <div class="paragraph">moment, then rechanneled it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," I said with a smile, handing my sun-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">glasses to Kirby. "It's about time I took a hand in this</div>
   <div class="paragraph">directly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, I reached out with my mind, pushed off</div>
   <div class="paragraph">against the ground, and soared upward, setting a course</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for the cornered vampire on the roof.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_20" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36317380" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36317382" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Nineteen: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"All right, pilgrim. This is between you and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—A. HAMILTON</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had hoped to make my approach unobserved, but as I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flew upward, the crowd below let out a roar that drew</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the attention of the combatants on the roof. Terrific!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When I wanted unobtrusive, I got notoriety.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Reaching a height level with that of the vampire, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">hovered at a discreet distance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Put away the nasties," I called to Tananda and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Guido. "He's not getting away by air."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They looked a bit rebellious, but followed the order.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's with the Peter Pan bit, partner?" Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shouted. "Are you feeling your Cheerioats, or did you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">finally find a force line?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Both." I waved back, then turned my attention to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Though his eyes were obscured by his sunglasses, I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">could feel his hateful glare burning into me to the bone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Why don't you just call it quits?" I said in what I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">161</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">162 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 163</div>
  <div class="paragraph">hoped was a calm, soothing tone. "It's over. We've got</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you outflanked."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a moment he seemed to waiver with indecision.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then, without warning, he threw Luanna at Aahz.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why can't you all just leave me alone!" he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">screamed, and dove off the roof.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Aahz somehow managed to snag the girl's hurtling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">form, though in the process he lost his balance and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tumbled backward down the roof peak, cushioning the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">impact with his own body.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I hesitated, torn between the impulse to check on</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Luanna's welfare and the desire to pursue Vic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go get him!" my partner called. "We're fine!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was all the encouragement I needed. Wheeling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to my right, I plunged after the fleeing vampire,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What followed was one of the more interesting ex-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">periences of my limited magical career. As I mentioned</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before, my form of flying magically isn't really flying</div>
   <div class="paragraph">... it's controlled levitation of oneself. This made en-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thusiastic pursuit a real challenge to my abilities. To</div>
   <div class="paragraph">counterbalance the problem, however, Vic couldn't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">really fly either'... at least he never seemed to flap his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wings. Instead, he appeared content to soar and bank</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and catch an occasional updraft. This forced him to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">continually circle and double back through roughly the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">same area time and time again. This suited me fine, as I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">didn't want to wander too far away from my energizing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">force line now that I had found it. The idea of running</div>
   <div class="paragraph">out of power while suspended fifty feet in the air did not</div>
   <div class="paragraph">appeal to me at all.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Anyway, our aerial duel rapidly became a curious</div>
   <div class="paragraph">matching of styles with Vic's swooping and circling in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">his efforts to escape and my vertical and horizontal</div>
   <div class="paragraph">maneuverings to try to intercept him. Needless to say,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the conflict was not resolved quickly. As soon as I</div>
  <div class="paragraph">would time a move that came close enough to an in-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">terception to justify attempting it again. Vic would</div>
   <div class="paragraph">realize his danger and alter his pattern, leaving me to try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to puzzle out his new course.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The crowd loved it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They whooped and hollered, their words of en-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">couragement alternately loud and faint as we changed</div>
   <div class="paragraph">altitude. It was impossible to tell which of us they were</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cheering for, though for a while I thought it was me,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">considering the approval they had expressed when I first</div>
   <div class="paragraph">took off to join the battle. Then I noticed that the crowd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was considerably larger than it had been when I entered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the fray, and I realized that many of them had not been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">around to witness the beginning of the conflict. To</div>
   <div class="paragraph">them, it probably appeared that a monster from another</div>
   <div class="paragraph">dimension was chasing one of their fellow beings</div>
   <div class="paragraph">through the sky.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That thought was disquieting enough that I spared</div>
   <div class="paragraph">some of my attention to scan the surrounding rooftops</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on the off-chance that a local sniper might be preparing</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to help his fellow countryman. It turned out to be the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wisest decision I had made.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As I was looking over my shoulder, I plowed full</div>
   <div class="paragraph">force into Vic, who had doubled back on his own path.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The feint would have probably worked if I had seen it,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">but as it was we collided at maximum speed, the impact</div>
   <div class="paragraph">momentarily stunning us both. I managed to grab a</div>
   <div class="paragraph">double handful of the vampire's turtleneck as we fell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about ten feet before I adjusted my levitation strength</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to support us both.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the matter with you!" I demanded, trying to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shake him, which succeeded only in moving us both</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back and forth in the air. "Running away won't help."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then I realized he was crying.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Somehow, this struck me as immensely unfair. I</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">164 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">165</div>
  <div class="paragraph">mean, how are you supposed to stay mad at a villain</div>
   <div class="paragraph">that cries? Okay. So I'm a soft tough. But the crying</div>
   <div class="paragraph">really did make a difference.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't fight you all!" he sobbed, tears streaming</div>
   <div class="paragraph">down his cheeks. "Maybe if I knew some magic I could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">take one of you with me ... but at least you're going to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have to work for your kill!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that he tore loose from my grasp and swooped</div>
   <div class="paragraph">away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His words stunned me so much I almost let him es-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">cape. Fortunately, I had the presence of mind to call out</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, dummy! Nobody's trying to kill you!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah, sure," he shouted back. "You're up here just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">for the fun of it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was starting to bank toward the street, and I knew</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'd only have time for one more try.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look! Will you stop running if I quit chasing you? I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think there's a major misunderstanding here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced back over his shoulder and saw that I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">still where I was when we collided. Altering his course</div>
   <div class="paragraph">slightly, he flared his wings and landed on a carved gar-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">goyle ornament jutting out from the side of the build-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why should you want to talk?" he called, wiping his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">face with one hand. "I thought nothing I could say</div>
   <div class="paragraph">would change your mind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'd be surprised," I shouted back. "Say, do you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mind if I land on that ledge near you? I feel pretty silly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just hanging here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced at the indicated ledge, and I could see his</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wings flex nervously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"C'mon," I urged. "I'll be further away from you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">there than I was when we started this chase back on the</div>
  <div class="paragraph">roof. You'll still have a clean shot at getting away if I try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He hesitated, then nodded his consent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moving slowly so as not to alarm him, I maneuvered</div>
   <div class="paragraph">my way to my new perch. Truth to tell, I was glad to get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">something solid under my feet again. Even using magic,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">flying can take a lot out of you, and I was relieved to get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a chance to rest. Now that I was closer, I could see that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vic was breathing heavily himself. Apparently his form</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of flying was no picnic either.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right," I said in a much more conversational</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tone. "Let's take this thing from the top. Who says</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we're trying to kill you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Matt does," the vampire responded. "He's the one</div>
   <div class="paragraph">who filled me in on you and your pet demon. To be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">honest with you, I had never even heard of you until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Matt explained whose home we had stumbled into."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Matt?" I frowned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then I remembered. Of course. The third member of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the fugitive party. Luanna's old con artist partner who</div>
   <div class="paragraph">nobody had been paying attention to at all. A germ of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">an idea began to form in my head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And he says we're out to kill you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. According to him nobody crosses the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Great Skeeve or makes a fool of him and lives... and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">using your house as an escape route definitely quali-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">fies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The reputation thing again. I was beginning to realize</div>
   <div class="paragraph">why so many magicians preferred to lead the lives of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">recluses.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's crazy, Vic." I said. "If I tried to kill every-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">body who's made a fool of me, I'd be armpit-deep in</div>
   <div class="paragraph">corpses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh yeah?" he shot back. "Well. if you aren't out to</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">166 Robert Asprin MYTH-ING PERSONS 167</div>
  <div class="paragraph">kill me, why did you send your pet demon after us?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite my resolve to settle this thing amicably, I was</div>
   <div class="paragraph">starting to get annoyed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"First of all, he's not my pet demon. He's my partner</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and his name is Aahz. Secondly, I didn't send him. He</div>
   <div class="paragraph">knocked me out cold and came himself. Third and final,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he was never out to kill you. He was trying to bring you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">and your cohorts back to Deva so we wouldn't get stuck</div>
   <div class="paragraph">paying off the people you swindled plus a hefty fine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Are you getting all this, or am I going too fast for you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But I didn't swindle anybody," the vampire pro-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">tested. "Those two offered me a job helping them sell</div>
   <div class="paragraph">magic charms. I didn't know they weren't genuine until</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Matt said the customers were mad and we had to run. I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">suggested we hide out here because it's the only place I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">know besides the Bazaar."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uh-huh," I said, studying the sky. "Next you'll be</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saying you didn't frame my partner or sound the alarm</div>
   <div class="paragraph">on us when we tried to spring him."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">, Vic's wings dropped as he hung his head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That much I can't deny... but I was scared! I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">framed the demon because it was the .only way I could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think of to get him off our trail for a while. I really</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thought he could get loose on his own, and when I saw</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you at the Woof Writers', I knew he was going to get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">away. I sounded the alarm hoping you would all get</div>
   <div class="paragraph">caught and be detained long enough to give us a head</div>
   <div class="paragraph">start. Looking back on it, they were pretty ratty things</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to do, but what would you do if you had a pack of killer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">demons on your trail?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now that I could identify with. Chumley's words</div>
   <div class="paragraph">about Vic and I being alike echoed in my ears. I had had</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to improvise in some pretty hairy situations myself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute!" I growled. "Speaking of killer de-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mons, what was that bit with you dangling Luanna over</div>
  <div class="paragraph">the edge of the building back there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was bluffing," the vampire shrugged. "Your</div>
   <div class="paragraph">friends were threatening to shoot me if I tried to fly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">away, and it was the only thing I could think of to try to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get them to back off. I wouldn't deliberately hurt any-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">one... especially Luanna. She's sweet. That's why I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was trying to help her escape with me after they caught</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Matt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That brought me to the question that had been nag-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ging at my mind since I started this wild chase.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you don't mind me asking, why didn't you just</div>
   <div class="paragraph">change into mist and drift away? We could never have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">caught you then."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Vic gave a short, bitter laugh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do you know how rough it is to turn into mist?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, you're a magician. Maybe you do know. Anyway,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you might as well know the truth. I'm not much in the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">magic department... in fact, I'm pretty much a bust as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a vampire. I can't even change all the way into a bat!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These wings are the best I've been able to do. That's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">why I was looking for a new life in the Bazaar. I'd</div>
   <div class="paragraph">rather be a first-class anything than a third-rate vam-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">pire. I mean, I don't even like blood!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You should meet my bodyguard." I grinned despite</div>
   <div class="paragraph">myself. "He's a gangster who's allergic to garlic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Garlic? I love garlic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to offer him Guido's job, then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shut it rapidly. If this character was half as desperate as</div>
   <div class="paragraph">he sounded, he'd probably take the offer seriously and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">accept, and then where would I be? All we needed to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">complete our menagerie was a magic-poor vampire.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well," I said instead, "I guess that answers all my</div>
   <div class="paragraph">questions except one. Now that you know we aren't try-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ing to kill you, are you ready to quit running and face</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the music?"</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">168 Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The vampire gnawed his lower lip as he thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're sure it will be all right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't say for sure until I talk to my partner," I ad-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mitted, "but I'm pretty sure things will be amenable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The main problem is to get the murder charges against</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him dropped... which I think we've already accom-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">plished. As for you, I think the only thing they could</div>
   <div class="paragraph">have against you is false arrest, and there's no way Aahz</div>
   <div class="paragraph">will press charges on that one."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I gave him my best grin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because if he did, we couldn't take you back to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Deva to deal with the swindling charge. Believe me, if</div>
   <div class="paragraph">given a chance between revenge and saving money, you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">can trust Aahz to be forgiving every time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Vic thought about it for a few more moments, then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Embarrassment I'm used to dealing with, and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">think I can beat the swindling rap. C'mon, Skeeve. Let's</div>
   <div class="paragraph">get this thing over with."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Having finally reached a truce, however temporary,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">we descended together to face the waiting crowd.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   

<div class="calibre7"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_21" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36318364" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36318366" class="calibre8"></a>Chapter Twenty: <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">"There's no accounting for taste!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">—COLONEL SANDERS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"BUT Skeeve...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BANG!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"...I told you before...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BANG! BANG!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... I could never abandon Matt...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BANG!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... he's my partner!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BANG .'BANG!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"ButLu...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BANG!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... excuse me. HEY, PARTNER! COULD YOU</div>
   <div class="paragraph">KNOCK OFF THE HAMMERING FOR A MINUTE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'M TRYING TO HAVE A CONVERSATION</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HERE!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not a chance," Aahz growled around his mouthful</div>
   <div class="paragraph">of nails. "I'm shutting this door permanently before</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anything else happens. But tell you what, I'll try to ham-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mer quietly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">169</div>
  <div class="paragraph">170             Robert Asprin                                    MYTH-ING PERSONS</div>
  <div class="paragraph">171</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If you deduce from all this that we were back at our</div>
   <div class="paragraph">place on Deva, you're right. After some long, terse con-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">versations with the citizens of Blut and fond farewells to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Vilhelm and Pepe, our whole crew, including our three</div>
   <div class="paragraph">captives, had trooped back to the castle and through the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">door without incident.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I had hoped to have a few moments alone with Lu-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">anna, but, after several attempts, the best I had been</div>
   <div class="paragraph">able to manage was this conversation in the reception</div>
   <div class="paragraph">room under the watchful eyes of Aahz and Matt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Matt, incidentally, turned out to be a thoroughly</div>
   <div class="paragraph">unpleasant individual with a twisted needle-nose, acne,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a receding hairline, and the beginnings of a beer-belly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For the life of me, I couldn't figure out what Luanna</div>
   <div class="paragraph">saw in him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But that was when you thought he was in a jam," I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">said, resuming the argument. "Aahz and I have already</div>
   <div class="paragraph">promised to help defend him and Vic when they go</div>
   <div class="paragraph">before the Merchants Association. There's no need to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stand by him yourself.''</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand you, Skeeve," Luanna declared,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">shaking her head. "If I wouldn't leave Matt when he</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was in trouble, why should I leave him when things look</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like they're going to turn out okay? I know you don't</div>
   <div class="paragraph">like him, but he's done all right by me so far ... and I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">still owe him for getting me away from the farm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But we're making you a good offer," I tried again</div>
   <div class="paragraph">desperately. "You can stay here and work for Aahz and</div>
   <div class="paragraph">me, and if you're interested we could even teach you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">some real magic so you don't have to...."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She stopped me by simply laying a hand on my arm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know it's a good offer, Skeeve, and it's nice of you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to make it. But for the time being I'm content to stay</div>
   <div class="paragraph">with Matt. Maybe sometime in the future, when I have</div>
   <div class="paragraph">a little more to offer you in return, I'll take you up on it</div>
  <div class="paragraph">... if the deal's still open."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Well," I sighed, "if that's really what you</div>
  <div class="paragraph">want...."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Hey! Don't take it so hard, buddy," Matt laughed,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">clapping his hand on my shoulder. "You win some, you</div>
   <div class="paragraph">lose some. This time you lost. No hard feelings. Maybe</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you'll have better luck with the next one. We're both</div>
   <div class="paragraph">men of the world, and we know one broad's just like</div>
  <div class="paragraph">any other."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"Matt, buddy" I said through clenched teeth, "get</div>
  <div class="paragraph">that hand off my shoulder before it loses a body."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As I said, even on our short trip back from Limbo I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had been so underwhelmed by Matt that I no longer</div>
   <div class="paragraph">even bothered trying to be polite or mask my dislike for</div>
   <div class="paragraph">him. He could grate on my nerves faster than anyone I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">had ever met. If he was a successful con artist, able to</div>
   <div class="paragraph">inspire trust from total strangers, then I was the Queen</div>
  <div class="paragraph">of May.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Matt's just kidding," Luanna soothed, stepping</div>
  <div class="paragraph">between us.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well I'm not," I snarled. "Just remember you're</div>
  <div class="paragraph">welcome here any time you get fed up with this slug."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, I imagine we'll be together for quite some</div>
   <div class="paragraph">time," Matt leered, patting Luanna lightly on her rump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">"With you big shots vouching for us we should be able</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to beat this swindling rap... and even if we lose, so</div>
   <div class="paragraph">what? All it means is I'll have to give them back their</div>
  <div class="paragraph">crummy twenty gold pieces."</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Aahz's hammering stopped abruptly ... or maybe it</div>
  <div class="paragraph">was my heart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">I tried vainly to convince myself that I hadn't heard</div>
  <div class="paragraph">him right.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Twenty gold pieces?" I said slowly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. They caught on to us a lot quicker here at the</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bazaar than I thought they would. It wasn't much of a</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <div class="paragraph">172            Robert Asprin</div>
  <div class="paragraph">haul even by my standards. I can't get over the fact that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you big shots went through so much trouble to drag us</div>
   <div class="paragraph">back here over a measly twenty gold pieces. There must</div>
   <div class="paragraph">be more to this principle thing than I realized."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ummm... could I have a word with you, part-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ner?" Aahz said, putting down his hammer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was about to ask the same thing," I admitted,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">stepping to the far side of the room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once we were alone, we stared at each other, neither</div>
   <div class="paragraph">wanting to be the first to speak.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You never did get around to asking Hay-ner how</div>
   <div class="paragraph">much was at stake, did you?" Aahz sighed absently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's the money side of negotiations and I thought</div>
   <div class="paragraph">you covered it," I murmured. "Funny, we both stood</div>
   <div class="paragraph">right there the whole time and heard every word that</div>
   <div class="paragraph">was said, and neither of us caught that omission."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Funny. Right. I'm dying." My partner grimaced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not as much as you will if word of this gets out," I</div>
   <div class="paragraph">warned. "I vote that we give them the money to pay it</div>
   <div class="paragraph">off. I don't want to, but it's the only way I can think of</div>
   <div class="paragraph">to keep this thing from becoming public knowledge."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Done." Aahz nodded. "But let me handle it. If</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Matt the Rat there gets wind of the fact that the whole</div>
   <div class="paragraph">thing was a mistake on our part, he'd probably black-</div>
   <div class="paragraph">mail us for our eyeteeth."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right, "I agreed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With that, we, the two most sought-after, most</div>
   <div class="paragraph">highly-paid magicians at the Bazaar, turned to deal with</div>
   <div class="paragraph">our charges, reminded once more why humility lies at</div>
   <div class="paragraph">the core of greatness.</div>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
   <br class="calibre9"/>
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

