---
layout: page
title: "Stars End - Starfishers Triology Book 3"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/cook-stars-end_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215826">Glen Cook</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36217006">Book One</a></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36356428">Book Two</a></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36361661">Book Three</a></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><div class="calibre5"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre6">
  Glen Cook <br class="calibre7"/>
  Stars End - Starfishers Triology Book 3 <br class="calibre7"/>
</h1>



<div class="calibre5"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre6"><a id="TOC_id36217006" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36217008" class="calibre8"></a>Book One <br class="calibre7"/></h1>


  <div class="paragraph">THE HIGH SEINERS</div>
  
  <div class="paragraph">One: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The death cry of an exploding sun illuminated a starfleet the likes of which few men had ever seen. There were six great starships in the convoy. The smallest was forty kilometers long.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No drive glow enveloped those ships. No ion wake marked their passing. They were drifting. But they met the flash front of the nova with an inherent velocity approaching three tenths the velocity of light.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Each of those starships looked like a mobile created by a sculptor, looked like someone had visited a planetary junkyard, had welded scraps together, and then had flung the results at the farthest star. Those ships were all angles, tubes and planes, globes, cubes, and what appeared to be silver sails. Whole forests of antennae bristled on the humped mountains of their backs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Random chunks of debris accompanied the ships, thrown out from jagged wounds in their flanks. Wisps of atmosphere leaked from those great rents, twinkling in the nova light. Smaller ships, like blowflies, fluttered around the rawest injuries.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There had been a battle. A battle at Stars' End. Its fury and magnitude would have beggared the imagination of men who hadn't ever been out among the stars.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">These limping, crippled starships were the survivors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The great lens of the Milky Way sprawled before the starships, cold and silver and bright. Their noses were aimed toward its heart. Like a dying man crossing a desert, the starfleet was dragging itself toward healthier climes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A patch on the smallest ship began to glow, throwing color back into the ocean of night. It was not a happy color. It was the dull, dark red of venous blood, the red of senescent suns. It brightened, became more intense.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The other ships drifted away. Fate had overtaken their little sister. She was about to lose control of her fusion plant. They did not want to be too close to the explosion. The smaller blowfly-vessels flitted away, carrying evacuees.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a moment the smaller starship yielded a light which rivalled that of the nearby nova. Fragments as big as pyramids hurtled outward, adding to the clutter traveling with the fleet. The remainder of the ship began tumbling slowly, now little more than a disemboweled corpse. The little ships darted in again, swarmed around the remains. Signals leapt across the ether. Any survivors? Anyone at all? There was no answer from the wreck. But the little ships went in anyway.</div>
  

  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe benRabi slapped the withdrawal switch beneath his left hand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Agony smashed into his head. A demon slapped a pair of icehooks into his temples and yanked. He screamed. "Clara! Shot!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not feel the needle bite his arm. Its prick was too tiny a pain. He knew it had happened only because blessed relief hit him seconds later.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans pulled his helmet. The youngster's face was drawn. Clara patted sweat from his face with a towel. "Bad, Moyshe?" she asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The worst. I can't reach him anymore. He's out there without protection... And we just lost <em class="calibre9">Jariel.</em> They couldn't contain the anti-matter leak. The Service Ships went back... I don't think they'll find anybody to evacuate."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans asked, "Drink, Moyshe?" The youth's voice was tremulous. He had had a sister on <em class="calibre9">Jariel.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Something. Please. I must have sweated a couple of liters. They get through to Gruber yet?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Clara shrugged. "I haven't heard." She was a plump, grandmotherly, graying woman with rosy cheeks. Her appearance reflected her personality. She was a book which could be read by its cover. BenRabi was in love with her, in a filial way.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've got to have help. We can't hide in this nova storm forever. The particle wave is on its way. It'll shred our screens."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Payne says we're going out. Soon as <em class="calibre9">Jariel</em> is evacuated. The sharks will have to take their chances."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, damn."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do the starfish say?" Hans asked, returning with a fruit drink. He was putting on a brave face. He had been in the fleet long enough to learn how to wait for good news or bad. They would let him know about his sister.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi swung his feet to the deck. "Like I said. I couldn't get through. Too far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe somebody else did."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody with more experience? I don't think so."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans was just nineteen, hardly out of creche. He had not yet hardened to all the realities of the harvestfleet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well just have to do it Payne's way. Fight our way through." BenRabi began shuddering as his body reacted to the massive dosage of anti-pain drug. Clara swept a blanket around his shoulders. It did not lessen the chills.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They still did not know for certain that they had won the battle of Stars' End. They knew only that Payne's Fleet had held the battle space, had survived, and had begun making its way home. They had not been attacked again, yet, but it was only a matter of time till the struggle resumed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look at me," benRabi whispered. "I can't stop shaking."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go home," Clara told him. "Get some sleep."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We might break through. They might need me to go on minddrive. Just let me stretch my legs." He picked at his arm where the needle had broken his skin. The strain of the emergency had begun to show on his flesh. He was getting tracks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He collapsed when he tried to stand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take him home, Hans," Clara told the youth. "Lester. Help Hans load Moyshe onto a scooter, will you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" benRabi demanded as Hans halted the flatbed electric truck outside his quarters. For a moment he did not know where he was. "Why did you?... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What happened?" a woman demanded. Worry strangled her voice.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He passed out," Hans replied. "Just needs rest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I told him... "A thin, pale, nervous face outlined by the short blonde hair entered Moyshe's vision, peered down into his eyes. "What's the matter with you, Moyshe? You think you're a superman? Give me a hand with him, Hans. I'll tie him in bed If I have to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody's got to... " benRabi protested.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You aren't the only somebody on <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> There's nobody like a new convert. I love him, but sometimes he drives me up the wall."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take care of him, Amy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry. I've got too much invested in this idiot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They dropped benRabi into his bed. It surrounded him with a womblike comfort. He felt vaguely guilty. He shouldn't be sleeping while other mindtechs were still trying to make contact.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy sat on the edge of the bed. He was asleep long before she finished cussing him out for not taking better care of himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was still hovering around when, six hours later, the cabin comm buzzed. She answered, "Amy Coleridge, Security."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A grey-framed face appeared in the little screen. "Good morning, Lieutenant. Is benRabi there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Commander. Sir. Yes sir." Her voice dropped an octave and seemed to snap to attention. "He's sleeping, sir. But I can wake him if you really need him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Don't. I wanted to speak to you, Lieutenant. I'm on my way down to see you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Two minutes later there was a knock on the cabin door. The Commander must have been on the way when he'd called her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've just read your report on benRabi."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You did? Why? It was just a routine report."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Commander brushed her question aside. "We may need him for something more than Contact. Coleridge, I want to ask you a question. I want a considered answer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is your report honest? Did you let your feelings affect it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No sir. Yes sir. I mean, it's honest, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're sure he's become a Seiner without reservation?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He has a few. He grew up different. But he's committed, sir. Almost too much. That's the way he is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Will he stay committed? Under pressure? He's changed allegiances before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Before? When, sir?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"When he left Old Earth."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's not the same thing. Earth is part of Confederation. He just joined the Navy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> commander reflected. "True. But, considering the way Old Earthers look at these things, it indicates a flighty nature. All right. Enough about benRabi. What about his cohort?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy's colorless eyebrows crinkled over her pale blue eyes. "That's more difficult, sir. Mouse is more complicated."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you sure you're not projecting a lack of understanding? His psych profiles make him look pretty simple. Almost black and white. He seems to have hung his whole existence on his hatred for the Sangaree."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then why did he stay here? He could've gone back to Confederation with the others. He can't fight Sangaree out here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've been wondering. That's why I asked."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't tell you, sir. He's all facade to me. All charm and silliness. I can't tell when he's serious and when he's joking. The only feeling I get is that the man I'm seeing isn't the real Masato Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you involved with him, too, Lieutenant?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Answer me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, sir! I am not involved with Mr. Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Makes you part of a vanishing breed, then. Seems he's bedded half the single women on <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He attracts a certain kind of woman."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh?" The caller smiled. "But not you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was a long time answering. "The temptation is there. He has an animal magnetism. There's curiosity about what everyone else sees in him. But nothing is going to happen. I don't like him very much."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her answer seemed to satisfy the Commander.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're entering a new era, Lieutenant. A time of changes. Our isolationism is under attack. The sharks are wearing us down. The Stars' End idea was a debacle. We're going to have to adjust. Either that or bend over and kiss our tails good-bye. Those two might be useful. They have unusual backgrounds. We don't have a secret service to speak of. They could build one. But that would mean trusting them. And they weren't born Starfishers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A lot of us weren't, somewhere along the line. My father... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. We're all refugees. Thank you, Lieutenant. Consider this discussion exclusive. Don't mention it to anybody. And if you learn anything that might have a bearing on the matter, call my office. I'll have your name red-tagged to my personal recorder. I'll call you back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Commander left as quickly as he'd arrived. Amy sat and stared into the shadows of the room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After a while she lifted her thin frame and drifted into the room where benRabi was sleeping. She stared down at him with an expression approaching awe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She had never seen or met the Ship's Commander before, except in public address announcements.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her Moyshe, her last chance man... He might amount to something after all.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She would not have become involved with the foreigner at all had her self-image not been pit-deep. She could not make herself believe that she deserved a good man, a real Starfisher. She had expected to watch her life drift away from the foot of a social and career ladder.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Commander's call changed everything. She would have to get Moyshe moving. And make sure his friend Mouse did not lead him astray.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The differences between the Confederated life that benRabi had chosen to leave and the lives of the Starfishers were deep.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Starfishers, the High Seiners, spent their adult lives aboard these vast harvestships, drifting the deep-space hydrogen streams, gleaning the droppings of an almost intangible spacebeast they called a starfish. A whole ecology existed in the interstellar rivers. It was vast and slow, in keeping with the low random collision of the molecules from which their type of life had gradually evolved. That life was invisible to the eye or radar. The atoms constituting the "bodies" of the interstellar creatures could be scattered over cubic kilometers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Starfish were more vast than harvestships, yet the matter in them could be compressed into a volume smaller than that occupied by the body of a ten-year-old. The atoms were as much foci for forces as part of the life process itself. And most of the creatures of the ecology existed, in part, in hyperspace and another, congruent universe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At the starfish's heart a tiny fusion flame burned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Starfish swept up hydrogen and random molecules and occasionally passed a node of hard waste. The nodes were incalculably precious.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Starfishers called them ambergris. Ambergris was the foundation of their economy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The nodes were used in instel communicators. There was no substitute. The Seiners controlled the only supply, and, consequently, the market and price.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Countless were the organizations which would pay almost any price for near-instantaneous communication across interstellar distance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe benRabi and Masato Storm had been sent among the Seiners to try to find a way for their employers, Confederation Navy, to seize the harvestships and ambergris industry. They had succeeded and failed. They had found the information...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And had elected to become Starfishers themselves.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The hydrogen streams boasted a complex ecology. It included the predatory "shark," which subsisted principally upon starfish. Evolution had equipped starfish with only one truly credible defensive weapon. Intellect.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Deep-space evolution had begun eons before the condensation of Old Earth's sun. The modern starfish species had a remembered history spanning billions of years. They had seen countless planet-born races come and go. They knew the value of their waste.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Over the past thousand Terran years, an eye's blink in the life of a starfish, shark numbers had exploded insanely. A new species was coming into being. It reasoned feebly, bred obsessively, and hunted in cooperative packs which now, sometimes, numbered as many as a thousand predators. The survival of the starfish species had come into sudden doubt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their Old Ones had deliberated with almost immoderate haste. A decision had been reached. They turned their intelligence to finding a means of contacting the tiny, hard, warm creatures who lived in the metal shells questing around their wakes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had struck a bargain with the original Starfishers. Ambergris in return for the protection of human weapons. It had been a good bargain. The sharks had been kept at bay for two hundred years.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Another mere blink of Time's eye.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then the ever more numerous sharks had developed the tactic of assailing the protectors before the protected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion</em> had enlisted landsmen as emergency replacements for heavy casualties suffered during one such attack. Her leaders had hoped to draw high quality technicians who might be seduced away from their lives in Confederation. Instead, they had attracted scores of spies sent in hopes of capturing control of a harvestfleet. Confederation's Bureau of Naval Intelligence had sent senior field agents Moyshe benRabi and Masato Igarashi Storm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The two had found what promised to be a home.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Sirens wailed throughout <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy jerked out of her seat. "Moyshe! Battle stations! We must be coming out of the flash wave."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi surged out of the bedroom, climbing into his jumpsuit as he came. "Let's go, honey." He dragged her into the passageway outside, where a pair of electric scooters nursed charger sockets. He seized one, she the other. "See you, love," he said as he sailed away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He pulled to the center of the passage and opened the scooter up. The walls blurred past. People were running in the pedestrian lanes. Scooters hurtled at him from the opposite direction. There were near collisions at every cross corridor. A voice like that of a god kept booming, "Battle stations. Battle station."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Damn, damn, damn, Moyshe thought. I shouldn't be going back under so soon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Five vast and tangled ships began nosing out of the intense nova light. The blowfly vessels still swarmed around their wounds, and between them and the derelict tumbling along in their midst, guarded by their shell of fire. One by one, the five great ships rolled to present their heaviest weapons outward from a common center.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36218806" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Two: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A ship came into being slightly below the surface of a dust lake rilling a crater on a nameless moon circling a world far in toward the center of the galaxy. The most centerward world of Ulant lay a thousand light years rimward. No human being had traveled this part of space before.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Astronomers on the primary, had they been watching, would have been astonished by the geyser which exploded from the crater's flat dust face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No astronomers were watching. They, like soldiers, wives, derelicts, and children... like everyone who lived on that world, were engaged in a death struggle so demanding they had ceased caring whether their satellite existed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ship that bobbed to the dust's surface looked like a giant doughnut with a beer can shoved through the hole and held in place by thin straws. One tall vane, like a shark's fin, rose from the torus, leaning away from the cylinder. A globe surmounted it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The whole vessel was dead black. Not even a hull number broke its lack of color.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was a tiny ship. The beer can was just sixty meters tall. The outer diameter of the doughnut barely spanned sixty-five meters. The curves of the vessel were broken only by a handful of antennae, two missile launch bays, and the snouts of laser and graser batteries. She was a deadly little beast, designed solely to kill.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was a museum piece. Literally. And the nastiest little shark of a warship ever conceived by the mind of Man.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was a Climber left over from the Ulantonid War. She had been dragged from the War Museum at Luna Command and reactivated especially for this mission.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was the first Climber to space since the war's most desperate days—because Climbers were almost as deadly to their crews as to the enemies they stalked. Only the absolute imperative of racial survival would see them used in combat again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Luna Command had that much heart. The Climber Fleets had been too destructive of the minds and bodies of their crews.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The little ambushers had changed the course of the Ulantonid War. And had filled the sanitariums of Confederation with walking wounded, the few survivors of service within their sanity-devouring fields of concealment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Climber generated a field in her torus which drove her into a dimension beyond hyper-space, called Null, where she remained virtually undetectable till she returned to Hyper or Norm to attack.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Climbers in schools had destroyed whole Ulantonid fleets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This Climber had the most remarkable crew of any Navy had ever spaced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her Ship's Commander was Manfred, Fleet Admiral Graf von Staufenberg, First Deputy Chief of Staff of Confederation Navy. He had seen Climber duty toward the end of the war. The ship's First Watch Officer was Melene Telle-eych Cath, Defender Prime of Ulant, or Minister of Defense. Her Operations Officer was Ulant's Principal Peacemaker, or Chief of the General Staff, Turone Wahl-chyst Forse. Her Gunnery Officer and his leading mates were Star Lords of the Toke. One was the Star Lord who commanded Confederation's Marine Toke Legion. The others ranked him in the Caste of Warriors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was no man or woman aboard, of any of five races, who ranked below the equivalent of Admiral or General, and none of them were not decision-makers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A well-placed missile could have crippled the defenses of humanity and all its neighbors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Admiral Wildblood, the lady who directed Navy's Bureau of Naval Intelligence, and Admiral Beckhart, who ran her department of dirty tricks, had two of the more menial assignments in Operations. One watched the hyper detection gear, the other the passive radar scans.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Star Lords and all, they slept in hammocks slung from the Climber's central structural member, or "keel." They shared the one toilet and did without the shower that had never existed. In Climb they used portable chamberpots and smelled one another's stinks as had the Climbermen of an age gone by.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One and all, they had come to see for themselves the growing disaster Ulantonid explorers had been bemoaning for years.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had seen film. They had questioned witnesses. In some cases they had begun to act. But they had had to see with their own eyes before they could finally believe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had to watch the war going on below. On the primary of the moon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A race from farther in toward the galactic core was systematically exterminating every sentient creature it encountered. The natives of this world were their latest victims.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The people aboard the Climber came of races which had fought bitterly in the past. There was little love among some of them now. But never, in the most desperate, heated days of their contention, had any considered eradicating their enemies. Their wars had been tests of racial wills, with territorial causes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This world was the fourth assailed by the centerward race since its discovery by Ulantonid explorers. The first three worlds were lifeless now. The aggressors even shunned their use as bases.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Even the Warriors of Toke could not comprehend the destruction of intelligent life simply because it was intelligent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Warriors believed battle to be a crucible for purification of the soul, a road to honor and glory, grimly majestic and godlike. For them combat was almost an end in itself. They fought one another when there were no outsiders.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were perfectly aware of the distinction between victory and obliteration. They were as appalled by the excesses of the centerward race as were any of their shipmates.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had come to see for themselves. And the grim truth burned in the Climber's display tank.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The world's atmosphere was alive with spiderwebs of coherent light. Energy and particle beams hacked air and space like the flailing swords of a thousand ancient armies. The planet people had the technological edge. The exterminators had the numbers and determination. Their ships clouded the stars.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had overwhelmed the world's off-planet protection months ago. Now they were pounding the on-world defenses, and were making their initial landings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Star-bright, short-lived pinpoints speckled the world's surface.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're using nuclears!" Ulant's Defender growled. Even during their war's bitterest hour, neither human nor Ulantonid had violated each other's worlds with nuclear weapons. By tacit agreement those had been confined to vacuum.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They know we're here," Beckhart called out. "Seven destroyer displacement ships are headed this way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very well," Graf von Staufenberg replied. "Melene, most of that looks like it's happening in the troposphere. They're probably not pushing one in a thousand warheads through to the surface."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Star Lord who commanded all Star Lords boomed, "Every one through destroys. The defense net weakness. Soon it will be two of a thousand. Then four."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not to mention what the radioactivity will do in the long run. Makes you wonder why they're forcing it with landings. Here. This south tropic archipelago. They've punched an open corridor down there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hell of a defense," someone muttered. "Damn near as tough as Stars' End. I wouldn't want to try breaking it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How long till those destroyers are pushing us?" von Staufenberg asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're humping it in Norm. Four or five minutes for the closest. Looks like some other stuff starting to move, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can't we do anything?" the D.N.I. demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Staufenberg replied, "We could bloody a few noses. It wouldn't change anything. We couldn't do that with a hundred Climbers. There're just too damned many of them. Okay, let's give the people in the other compartments a look. I want everybody to see it. We'll have some decision to make on our way home."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Warriors have decided," said the Star Lord of the Marine Toke Legion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He speaks for Toke," his non-Service superior added. "For Toke there can be but one decision. We will come to them here. Alone if we have to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's not that easy for me, Manfred," Melene said. "We're an adventurous species but I'm handicapped by democratic traditions and faith in peace. We don't organize quickly or well."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Staufenberg chuckled. "You did before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Defender was older than he. She had been a soldier throughout the Ulantonid War.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I expect we will again. We can do anything when we decide to pull together. It's the decision process that's so abominably slow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Your decisions were made years ago, Melene," Beckhart growled from his radar boards. "Don't try to snow us. I can give you the names and hull numbers of a hundred new construction ships you've got tucked away in places you never thought we'd look."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Admiral Beckhart?" von Staufenberg queried.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I have my sources, sir. They're rearming as fast as their shipbuilding industry can space hulls. They come off the line looking like commercial ships, only they've got drive potential up the yang-yang, and they never get delivered to any of the transport outfits. They disappear for a while, then turn up somewhere else with guns dripping off them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why wasn't High Command informed of this, Beckhart?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because my sources are in the Defender's office. And I knew why they were rearming. You wouldn't have bought it. Half of High Command is still trying to refight the Ulantonid War. I let it go on playing that game because people were seeing enough of those new ships to get nervous and start us a secret building program of our own. So we're on our way too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart... Your logic baffles me. Totally baffles me. I have the distinct feeling that you'll have to explain it to a Board of Inquiry. What else have you hidden from us?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You want an honest answer, or one that will please you?" Beckhart did not make many friends. He retained his position principally because no one else could do his job as well.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Several things, sir. Ongoing operations. If they work out, we'll be in good shape for meeting these monsters."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Monsters?" Melene demanded. "There's no evidence... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Melene, the Admiral is a xenophobe. In fact, he doesn't like people very much. Tell me what you're doing, Beckhart."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's a chance I'm on the threshold to the solution of the Sangaree problem. Some new data was on its way in before we left. I'll probably want to borrow von Drachau again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What else?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Still too tentative for discussion. A possible breakthrough in communications and weapons technologies. I won't discuss it now. Not here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Security privilege. Sir. Log it if you like."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Staufenberg wheeled on the Director of Naval Intelligence. She shrugged. "You won't get anything from me, either, Manfred."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Damn! All right, let's get moving. Time's running out, and everybody's got to have a look at this."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Cumbers were the most cramped vessels since Gemini. Circulating the forty-odd beings aboard was a slow, uncomfortable process.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's about to start shooting," Beckhart said of the nearest destroyer. "She has. Missile swarm. We have four minutes to hide."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How do you like that? Didn't even try to find out who we were or what we wanted."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is the Ship's Commander," von Staufenberg said into the public address system. "We're under fire. Engineering, stand by to go Null." Thirty seconds before the swarm arrived, he ordered, "Take her up to ten Bev. First Watch Officer, a gesture is in order. Program me an attack approach on the vessel shooting at us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Ulantonid's feathery antennae stirred, quivered. The action was comparable to a human's pleased chuckle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Star Lords were in Weapons Department already, hoping they would be allowed to play with their deadly toys.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One missile," said von Staufenberg. "Right up her wake."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was the classic Climber attack strategy. Drives were a warship's soft spot. They simply could not be designed so that thrust apertures could be shielded as well as the remainder of the vessel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The dust in the crater flowed together suddenly, smashing in like the Red Sea on Pharaoh's chariots. The doughnut ship had vanished.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take her all the way to forty Bev," von Staufenberg ordered. "I doubt they know enough to look for our Hawking Point, but let's get that cross-section down anyway." One of the curiosities about the Climber was that no other race known to humanity had ever developed it. And for humans it had been an accidental by-product of other research.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-three minutes passed before the First Watch Officer reported, "Attack position, Commander."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Weapons, Ship's Commander. One missile. Stand by. Detection, when we go down I want you to get the ranges and vectors on everything you can see. We'll do what we can. And I want the tape rolling. Ship's Services, vent heat while we're Norm. All right. Everybody ready? Take her down, Engineering."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Heat accumulation was the biggest weakness of the Climber. There was no way to shed heat in Null. And a Climber often had to stay up for days while enemy warships hunted her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Climber was no warship in the slug-it-out sense. She was a hit-and-run fighter dependent on surprise for her effectiveness.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Defender Prime brought them down just four kilometers behind the destroyer. The Climber rocked. The missile accelerated at 100 g. It arrived before the destroyer knew it was coming.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One for the good guys," Beckhart grumped as the Climber went up again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What was that?" von Staufenberg demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Admiral, you're giving them valuable information just by blowing them out of space. You're telling them we can do it. You'll get them wondering how. Head home before we give them any hard data. Let's save the surprises for when they'll do some good."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Staufenberg reddened. There was no love lost between him and Beckhart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's right, Manfred," the Defender Prime interjected. "You almost wasted the Climber advantage by committing them piecemeal during the war. They would have more effective if whole fleets had appeared suddenly. We would not have had time to adapt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course. Of course. I was thinking with my guts. Program a course for the mother, Melene."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Climbers did not have a long range. A mother ship awaited this one a hundred light-years homeward. A small armada protected her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This Climber's crew regarded themselves highly.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36219224" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Three: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi slammed his scooter through the entrance to Control Sector. Seconds later the massive shield doors rumbled shut behind him. The section was totally self-contained now. No one could come in or leave till those doors lifted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe stopped in a long, squealing slide. He jumped off, slammed the charger plug into a socket, ran through the hatch to Contact.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You made it," Clara said. "We didn't think you would. You live so far away. Here. Catch your breath."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My scooter was smoking. Better have it checked, Hans." He settled onto a fitted couch.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ready?" Clara asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She smiled at him. Hans started massaging an odorless paste into his scalp. Clara slipped her fingers inside what looked like a hairnet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You never are. I thought you liked Chub."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi chuckled. "Chub, I like fine. He's good people. But I'd like him a lot better if he could walk in the door, stick out a hand, and say, ‘Hey, Moyshe, let's go grab a couple of beers.' "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub was the starfish with whom benRabi usually linked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Xenophobe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Crap. It's not him. It's that out-of-body feeling... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wrong, Moyshe. You can't fool old Clara. I was babying mindtechs before you were born. And you're all alike. You don't want to go out because it hurts so much to come back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ready," Hans said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Clara slid the net onto Moyshe's head. Her fingertips were soft and warm. They lingered on his cheeks. Momentary concern clouded her smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't push yourself, Moyshe. Get out if it gets rough. You haven't had enough rest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Since Stars' End there isn't any rest. For anybody."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We won," Hans reminded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The cost was too high."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was cheaper than losing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi shrugged. "I guess you people see things different. I never would have gone in the first place."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You took your whippings and smiled, back in Confederation?" Hans asked. "I never heard of that."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. We calculated the odds. We picked the right time. Then we ganged up. We didn't just go storming around like a rogue elephant, getting hurt as much as we did hurt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oriflamme," Hans countered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what they call Payne sometimes. It's something from olden times that has to do with not taking prisoners."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. The oriflamme. It was a special pennon that belonged to the King of France. If he raised it, it meant take no prisoners. It had a way of backfiring on him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hans," Clara said, "Moyshe is an Academy man. He can probably tell you how many spokes in the wheel of a Roman war chariot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take Poitiers, for instance... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a place. In France, which is on Old Earth... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know where France is, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. One of the big battles of the Hundred Years War was fought there. And you could say that the French lost because of the oriflamme. See, they caught the English in a bad spot. Outnumbered them like ten to one. The Black Prince decided to surrender. But the French raised the oriflamme. Which pissed the English, so they proceeded to kick ass all over the countryside. When the dust settled, the French were wiped out and Louis was in chains. There's a lesson in there somewhere, if you want to look. Namely, don't ever push anybody into a corner where he can't get out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You see what he's doing, Hans?" Clara asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You mean trying to educate us until the all-clear comes through? You're out of luck, Moyshe. Lift your head so I can put your helmet on."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi raised his head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His scalp began tingling under the hairnet device. The helmet devoured his head, stealing the light. He fought the panic that always hit before he went under.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans strapped him in and adjusted the bio-monitor's pickups.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can you hear me, Moyshe?" Clara asked through the helmet's earphones.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He raised a hand. Then spoke: "Coming through clear."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Got you too. Your boards look good. Blood pressure is up, but that's normal for you. Take a minute in TSD. Relax. Go when you want."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His, "I don't want," remained unspoken.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He depressed the switch beneath his right hand one click.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The only senses left him were internal. Total Sensory Deprivation left him only his aches and pains, the taste in his mouth, and the rush of blood. Once the field took hold, even those would go.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In small doses it <em class="calibre9">was</em> relaxing. But too much could drive a man insane.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He flicked his right hand again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A universe took form around him. He was its center, its lord, its creator... There was no pain in that universe, nor much unhappiness. Too many wonders burned there, within the bounds of his mind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was a universe of colors both pastel and crisp. Every star was a blazing jewel, proclaiming its individual hue. The oncoming storm of the nova's solar wind was a rioting, psychedelic cloud that seemed to have as much substance as an Old Earth thunderhead. Opposite it, the pale pink glimmer of a hydrogen stream meandered off toward the heart of the galaxy. The surrounding harvest-ships were patches of iridescent gold.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A score of golden Chinese dragons drifted with the fleet, straining toward it, yet held away by the light pressure of the dying star. Starfish!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi's sourness gave way to elation. There would be contact this time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He reached toward them with his thoughts. "Chub? Are you out there, my friend?" For a time there was nothing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then a warm glow enveloped him like some sudden outbreak of good cheer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe man-friend, hello. I see you. Coming out of the light, hello. One ship is gone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"<em class="calibre9">Jariel.</em> They're still evacuating."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sad."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub did not seem sad. This fish, benRabi thought, is constitutionally incapable of anything but joy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so, Moyshe man-friend. I mourn with the herd the sorrows of Stars' End. Yet I must laugh with my man-friends over the joys of what was won."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The ships-that-kill weren't all destroyed, Chub. The Sangaree carry their grudges forever."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ha! They are a tear in the eye of eternity. They will die. Their sun will die. And still there will be starfish to swim the rivers of the night."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've been puttering around in the back rooms of my mind again. You're stealing my images and shooting them back at me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You have an intriguing mind, Moyshe man-friend. A clouded, boxy mind, cobwebby, atticy, full of trap doors... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What would you know about trap doors?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Only what I relive through your memories, Moyshe man-friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub teased and giggled like an adolescent lover.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By starfish reckoning he <em class="calibre9">was</em> a child. He-had not yet seen his millionth year.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi simply avoided thinking about starfish time spans. A life measured in millions of years was utterly beyond his ken. He only mourned the fact that those incredible spans could never touch upon worlds where beings of a biochemical nature lived. The stories they could have told! The historical mysteries they could have illuminated!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But starfish dared not get too near major gravitational or magnetic sources. Even the gravity of the larger harvestships felt to a starfish much as rheumatism to a human being.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were terribly fragile creatures.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">While Chub teased and enthused, Moyshe turned a part of his mind to his private universe again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Red torpedoes idled along far away, across the pink river, against the galaxy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Chub said. "Sharks. Survivors of Stars' End called them here. They will attack. They starve. Another feast for the scavenger things."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Smaller ghosts in a mix of colors shadowed both dragons and torpedoes. They were Chub's scavengers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The great slow ecology of the hydrogen streams had niches for creatures of most life-functions, though their definition in human terms was seldom more than an approximation. A convenient labeling.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe yielded to nervousness. Chub reached into his mind, calming him...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm learning, Chub. I can see the river this time. I can see the particle storm coming from the sick sun."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very good, Moyshe man-friend. You relax now. Sharks come soon. You watch scavenger things instead. They tell when sharks can't wait anymore. They get dancey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe laughed into his secret universe. Starfish believed in doing things with deliberation, as might be expected of creatures with vast life spans. Young starfish tended to be restless and excitable. They were prone to flutter impatiently in the presence of their elders. The Old Ones called it "getting dancey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub was dancey most of the time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Old Ones considered him the herd idiot. Chub said they regretted exposing him to human hasty-think while he was still young and impressionable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is a joke, Moyshe man-friend. Is a good joke? Yes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Very funny." For a starfish. The Old Ones had to be the most phlegmatic, humorless, pragmatic intelligences in all creation. They couldn't even grasp the concept of a joke. With the exception of Chub, benRabi found them a depressing mob.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was lucky to become your mind-mate, Chub. Very lucky."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He meant it. He had linked with Old Ones. He compared it to making love to his grandmother bare-assed on an iceberg, with a crowd watching. Drawing Chub was the best thing that had happened to him in years.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. We half-wits stick together. Venceremos, Comrade Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi filled the universe with laughter. "Where the hell did you get that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Your mind full of cobwebby memories, Moyshe man-friend. One time you play revolutionary on hard matter place called Dustball."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. I did. About two weeks. Then it was duck bullets all the way back to the Embassy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You live much in few years, Moyshe man-friend. Ten times anyone else linked by starfish Chub. Many adventures. Think Chub would make good spy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who would you spy on?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Problem. Very difficult to disguise as shark."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's another joke, isn't it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. You still spying, Moyshe man-friend?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not anymore. I'm not Thomas McClennon anymore. I'm Moyshe benRabi. I've found me a home, Chub. These are my people now. You can't spy on your own people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Saw shadows in your mind. Thought maybe secret spy-stuff lurked. So. Hey! Maybe someday you go spy on hard matter place people? Be double spy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Double agent?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Yes. That right words."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No more spying, Chub. I'm going to be a mindtech."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Dangerous."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So is spying. In more ways than you'll ever understand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hurts-of-the-heart dangers, you mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know why they tell you you're stupid. You're a lot smarter in a lot of ways than most people I know. You see things without having to have them explained."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Helps, being starfish. People can't look inside, Moyshe man-friend. You have to tell. You have to show. You not the kind of man to do that."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Let's talk about something else, huh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Running out of talk time, Moyshe man-friend. Scavenger creatures getting dancey. You not paying attention?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I still haven't got the hang of seeing everything at once."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was one of the beauties of the mindtech's linked universe. He was not subject to the limitations of binocular vision. But he did have to unlearn its habits.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Blind people made better techs faster. They had no habits to unlearn, no preoccupations to overcome. But blind people who suffered from classical migraine were scarce.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Scarlet torpedoes edged toward the fleet. They were not yet wholly committed. Hunger still had not banished good sense.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Sharks were slow of wit, but they knew they had to get past the harvestships to reach their prey.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was the whole point of the starfish-Starfisher alliance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can't visit anymore, Chub. We're not going on mind-drive, so I'll have to help fight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes, Moyshe man-friend. Shoot straight. I help, putting right vectors in your brain."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right." Aloud, into his helmet, benRabi said, "Gun Control."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A second later his earphones crackled. "Gun Control, aye."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mindtech. In link and free to assume control of a sector battery. Sharks will attack. Repeat, will attack."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shit. All right, buddy. But never mind the sector battery. Master Gunner says he wants you to feed the main battle tank. Think you and your link can give us good realtime input?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Chub murmured deep in benRabi's hindbrain.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes," Moyshe said. And wondered why. It was not something he had ever tried.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Monitor?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All go, Gun Control," Clara's voice interjected. "Green boards all across, I've just keyed the translator. You can bring the computer on-line whenever you're ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stand by for draw, Linker."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe," said Clara, "don't take any chances. Key out if it gets rough."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drawing, Linker."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For an instant benRabi felt as though some intangible vacuum were sucking his mind away. A smatter of panic quickly yielded to Chub's soothing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe relaxed, became a conduit. He became an almost disinterested observer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The scavengers suddenly grew dancey with a vengeance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Attack imminent," benRabi muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those pilot fish were excited because they would feast no matter what the outcome of battle. They would be perfectly content nibbling dead shark or dead starfish.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A dozen crimson torpedoes suddenly misted, stretched into long, fuzzy lines, and solidified again near the starfish herd.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A hundred swords of light started carving them into scavenger food. Sharks were easy meat for particle beams.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Teach them to try end run through hyper," Chub whispered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The starfish herd had not bothered to dodge. They would not begin maneuvering till the protection of the human ships began breaking down.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It might not hold, benRabi reflected. Five vessels could not establish a sound fire pattern. There would be blind spots. Big holes. To fill them would mean risking hitting your own people.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The shark packs milled. They had not yet found workable tactics for assailing a fleet of harvestships.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their intellectual slowness was the only hope for starfish and starfishers alike. Something had happened to the sharks. Their numbers were expanding almost exponentially. They were becoming ever more desperate in their quest for something to eat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their prey, historically, had been the stragglers of the great starfish herds. The feeble and injured and careless. But now they assaulted the strong and healthy as well, and had even begun turning on their own injured. Even the firepower of a harvestship could not hold the massed packs at bay when hunger heterodyned into a berserk killing rage.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not look so promising as you thought, Moyshe man-friend. All going to come at once, from everywhere, crazy. Just killing and dying."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was dread in Chub's thought. Moyshe was dismayed. Even in the hell that had been the battle at Stars' End the starfish had not lost his good cheer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The starfish's prediction proved correct. The red torpedoes suddenly exploded in every direction. Moyshe had seen the same reaction among humans. The first had been by a band of fair-weather revolutionaries who had heard the police were coming. Another time, a terrorist had lobbed a hand grenade into a crowded theatre.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But the sharks were not fleeing. The instant-insanity had seized them. They were spreading out to attack.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They arrowed in on the harvestfleet. Laser and particle beam swords stabbed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> fire was deadly. The realtime simulation from the minds of a man and a starfish linked gave the weapons people a fractional second's advantage over their brethren in ships relying on normal detection systems.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The shark wave rolled round <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> like a breaker around a granite promontory.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They could have worn her down in time, had they had the patience of the sea, and the sea's resources for endlessly sending in another wave. They had hurt her bad at Stars' End. It only took one shark getting through, with its multi-dimensional fires, to ravage a whole section of ship. But this horde was more limited in its numbers and more driven by hunger.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Christ," benRabi swore as an explosion ripped a huge chunk from a sister ship. A shark had gotten through there. The service ships, still evacuating <em class="calibre9">Jariel</em> and trying to plug the holes in the fire pattern, swarmed toward the fragment. Clouds of frozen water vapor boiled round it as atmosphere poured out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A shark flung itself into the starfish herd.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The great night beasts were not defenseless. One burped a ball of the. nuclear fire that burned in its "gut," flung it with Robin Hood accuracy. The shark perished in the fading flash of a hydrogen bomb.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One predator was gone. And one starfish was disarmed for hours. It took the creatures a long time to revitalize their internal fires.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had seen the peaceable starfish use the same weapon against Sangaree raidships at Stars' End.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fur is flying now, Moyshe man-friend." Chub was straining for humor. "We doing all right, you and me. Maybe your Old Ones decide you not stupid after all." Left unthought was Chub's hope for the same reaction from his own Old Ones.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">By way of support benRabi replied, "This is a new era, Chub. It's going to take hastiness and danciness to survive."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sharks coming again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once more <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> weaponry scarred the long night. Moyshe wondered what some alien would think if he happened on its unconcealable mark, a thousand years from now, a thousand light-years away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Both sides had used retrospective observation techniques during the Ulantonid War. A battle's outcome might be fixed, but it could be studied over and over from every possible angle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The second assault was more furious than the first. BenRabi stopped trying to think. He had to give his whole attention over to following the situation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">More sharks dropped hyper, drawn by no known means. The rage took them, too. They attacked everything, including wounded brethren floundering around the battle region.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This was the root of Chub's fear. That more and more sharks would be drawn till they simply overwhelmed everything.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was the future foreseen by both starfish and Starfishers. The terror that herd after herd and harvestship after harvestship would be consumed was the force that had driven the maverick commander of this fleet to hazard the defenses of Stars' End.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The arrivals slowed to a trickle. Chub thought, "We going to win again, Moyshe man-friend. See the pattern? The glorious pattern. They waste their might devouring their own injured."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi searched his kaleidoscopic mind-link universe. He saw nothing but chaos. This, he reflected, is the sort of thing Czyzewski was thinking about when he wrote <em class="calibre9">The Old God.</em> So much of Czyzewski's poetry seemed reflective of recent events. Had the man been prescient?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No. He was far gone on stardust when he did the cycle including <em class="calibre9">The Old God.</em> The drug killed him less than a month after he finished the poem. The images were just the flaming madness of the drug burning through.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't you get tired of being right?" he asked when the first sharks fled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Never, Moyshe man-friend. But learned long ago to wait till event is certain, predestined, to make observation. Error is painful. The scorn of Old Ones is like the fire of a thousand stars."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know the feeling." For some reason the face of Admiral Beckhart, his one-time commander, drifted through his universe. Here on the galactic rim, fighting for his life against creatures he had not suspected existed two years earlier, his previous career seemed as remote as that of another man. Of another incarnation, or something he had read about.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The assault collapsed once the first few well-fed sharks fled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The starfish had suffered far less than their inedible guardians. Not one dragon was missing from the golden herd defended by the harvestships. But another ship had been injured severely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A traitorous thought stole across Moyshe's mind on mouse-soft feet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub was less indignant than he expected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">On a strictly pragmatic level, the starfish agreed that getting out of the interstellar rivers would be the best way to conserve Starfisher ships and lives.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They'll never go, Chub. The harvestfleets are their nations. Their homelands. They're proud, stubborn people. They'll keep fighting and hoping."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know, Moyshe man-friend. It saddens the herd. And makes the Old Ones proud that they forged their alliance so well. But why do you say ‘they?' "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We, then. Part of the time... <em class="calibre9">Most</em> of the time I'm an outsider here. They do things differently than what I learned... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes you miss your old life, Moyshe man-friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes. Not often, and not much, though. I'd better tend to business." He had to focus his attention to force his physical voice to croak, "Gun Control, Mindlink. The sharks are going. They've given up. You can secure when the last leaves firing range."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You sure, Linker? Don't look like it in the display tank."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm sure. Let me know when I can stop realtiming. This is my second link in eight hours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right. Will do." The man on the far end seemed impressed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Clara's voice broke in. "Are you all right, Moyshe? The strain getting heavy? We can bring you out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm okay. For a while. I remember what I am. Just be ready to hit me with that needle."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At Stars' End <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> had lost half her native, trained mindtechs because they had stayed in link too long, or had been mindburned by sharks breaking through the defensive fire screen. The best guess was that the former had become lost in the special interior universe of the linker. Dozens occupied a special hospital ward where doctors and nurses had to handle them like newly born babies.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their bodies lived on. Their minds, it was hoped, might sometime be retrieved.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In all the history of the High Seiners no lost linker ever had been recalled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Starfishers were living on hopes these days. Stars' End had been one, for weapons capable of shattering shark tides.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi did not understand how the Seiners had hoped to accomplish what generations of madmen, fools, and geniuses had failed to do. Stars' End was a fortress unvanquishable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was a whole world, Earth-sized, that was a fortress. Or planetary battleship. Or whatever. It could be approached by nothing. The technologies of its defenses were beyond the imaginations of any of the races aware of its existence. Its builders had long since vanished into the abyss of time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Generations of men had lusted after the weapons of Stars' End. Thousands had died trying to obtain them. And the fortress world remained inviolate.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Why had the Seiners been convinced that they would have better luck?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You were right, Linker. Computer says they're pulling out. Going to let you off realtime now. We can handle it from here without."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Gun Control."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sense of drain stopped abruptly. BenRabi's universe reeled. Chub reached in and steadied him. "Time to break, Moyshe man-friend. You losing sense of reality and orientation in space-time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not lost yet, Chub."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You all say so. No more you can do here, man-friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The crackle of reality beginning to fall into shards rose from benRabi's hindbrain. It pushed a wave of terror before it. Chub did nothing to soothe him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Clara! The needle. I'm coming out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He slapped the switch beneath his left hand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were waiting for him. The agony persisted for only a few seconds.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was bad enough. He screamed and screamed. It got worse every time.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36351311" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Four: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They put him into Hospital Block this time. He was under sedation for three days.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Two people were at his bedside when the doctor came to bring him out. The thin, pale, blue-eyed woman with the nervous hands was Amy. The little oriental with the presence of an iceberg was benRabi's friend Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy would sit for a minute, picking at her jumpsuit, shifting this way and that. She would cross and uncross her legs, then would rise and pace around for a minute before sitting again. She did not speak to Mouse. Most of the time she deliberately tried to distance Storm from herself and Moyshe. It was almost as if she saw Mouse as a competitor for benRabi's affection.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The men had shared missions under fire. Sometimes they did not like one another much. Their backgrounds were day and night. Centuries of prejudice had erected walls between them. Yet an indestructible bond had been forged and hammered on the anvils of shared peril. They had guarded one another's backs and saved one another's lives too often to let go.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse waited without moving, with the patience of a samurai.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was a dedicated Archaicist. He had just encountered his own ancient heritage and, in imagination, was trying the samurai role for size. The code and conduct suited the warrior within him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But it did nothing for the libertine. And Mouse was a classic of that genre, at least with the opposite sex.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Masato Igarashi Storm did nothing by half measures.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The doctor coughed softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Will he be all right?" Amy demanded. "He'll come out okay? I know what you told me, but... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's facial muscles moved slightly. His wan expression spoke volumes about his disgust at her display.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The doctor was more patient. "Just an enforced rest, Miss. That's all it is. There's nothing wrong that rest can't cure. I hear he did a hell of a job feeding realtime to Weapons Control. He just pushed himself too far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A look flickered across Mouse's stony face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What're <em class="calibre9">you</em> thinking?" Amy demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just that he's not usually a pusher."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy was ready for a fight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The doctor aborted it by giving benRabi an injection. He began to come around.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse seemed indifferent to Amy's response. But not oblivious. He was an astute observer. He just did not care what she thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Doc," he said, "is there any special reason for sticking with this kind of medical setup?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman held benRabi's wrist, taking his pulse. "What do you mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's primitive. Almost Archaicist obsolete. They had sonic sedation systems before I was born. Easier on the patient and staff both."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The doctor reddened. Mouse had been out of the hospital only a few weeks himself. He had spent a month recuperating from a severe wound received from a Sangaree agent who had tried to seize control of <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> He was not pleased with the quality of medical care, and made no secret of it. But Mouse hated all doctors and hospitals. He could find fault with the finest.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had tracked the Sangaree woman down, and had shot her...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse had the nerve to stand toe-to-toe with the Devil and tell him to put it where the sun doesn't shine.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We have to make do with what we can afford, Mr. Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So I've been told." Mouse did not pursue it, though he thought Seiners pleading poverty was on a par with Midas begging alms on a street corner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi opened his eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How you doing, Moyshe?" Storm asked, trampling Amy's more dramatic opener. His presence there, betraying his concern, embarrassed him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The fabric of centuries takes the stamp; they mark the children indelibly. Their legacy remains as invisible and irresistible as the secret coded in DNA. The young Mouse had learned that Old Earthers were pariahs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's family had been in Service for three generations. They were part of Confederation's military aristocracy. BenRabi's forebears had been unemployed Social Insurees for centuries.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neither man considered himself prejudiced. But false truths sown in the fallows of childhood, planted deep, continued to sprout unrealistic real-world responses.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had begun bridling his prejudice early. He had to survive. There had been only two Old Earthers in his Academy battalion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He needed a minute to get his bearings. "What am I doing here?" he demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You needed rest," Amy told him. "Lots of it. You overdid it this time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on. I can take care of myself. I know when... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Crap!" the doctor snapped. "Every mindtech thinks that. And then they turn up here, burned out. I change their diapers and spoon feed them. What is it with you people, benRabi? You all got egos two sizes too big for a small god."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe was fuzzy. He tried to say something flip. His tongue felt like it was wrapped in an old sock.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He saw tears in the doctor's eyes. "Did you lose someone at Stars' End?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My sister. She came out of creche just before you landsmen came aboard. She was only seventeen, benRabi."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, you're not. You're a mindtech. Anyway, sorry doesn't help. Not when I have to take care of her every day. She was just like you, benRabi. She knew she could handle it. She wouldn't listen either. None of them would. Not even the controllers, who should've known better. They put her back in with only four hours' rest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi kept his mouth shut. What could he say? He had been introduced to Contact during the battle at Stars' End. The main Contact room had been a shambles. Dozens of mindtechs had given everything to save <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">He never would have seen Contact, or even have discovered its existence, had those linker casualties not been cruel. In those days he had been a distrusted landsman, a convicted enemy spy who was screened from all Seiner secrets. They had drafted him into Contact only because he might give <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> a millimeter's better chance of surviving.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had made his decision to cross over after Stars' End, virtually in the hatch of the ship designated to return the landsmen contractees to Confederation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had waited too long. Half of his personal possessions had departed with the ship. He had not recovered them. The service ship crew had gotten into a row with Customs. The bureaucrats had retaliated, seizing everything not bolted to the ship's frames.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi took Amy's thin, cool hand. "How've you been, darling? You look tired. How long has it been?" She felt so cold... She was a spooky woman. Why had he fallen in love with her?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He always fell for the strange ones, the neurotic and just plain rotten ones. Alyce, in Academy... What a loser she had turned out to be. And the Sangaree woman, Marya, who had been a vampire in the midst of his last two missions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm all right now that I know you'll be okay. Moyshe, please be more careful."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She seemed unusually remote. BenRabi glanced at her, at Mouse, and back again. More problems with Mouse? Her dislike for his friend had taken a quantum leap recently.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse did not talk much. The inevitable chess board had accompanied him, but he did not offer to play. Amy's presence restrained him. Chess was one of his great passions, rivaling his passion for seducing a parade of beautiful women.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Mouse. Ever wonder what Max is doing these days?" Referring to someone they had known before coming out here was the only way he could think of to pull his friend into the conversation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Probably getting richer and wondering why we don't come into her shop anymore. I don't think Beckhart will bother giving her our new address."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." BenRabi laughed. "He should have heard the news by now, don't you think? Or pretty soon. He'll foam at the mouth." For Amy's benefit, he explained, "Max was a friend of ours in Luna Command. She ran a stamp store."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Best hobby shop in the moon," Mouse said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy did not respond. She simply could not comprehend what these two got out of accumulating small bits of paper that were ages old and required jeweler's grade care.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And stamps were not the only thing. Between them they seemed to collect everything. Coins. Stamps. All kinds of ancient miscellania. Mouse had little wrought-iron trivets and other old-time dohickeys all over his quarters. The one collection she could appreciate was Moyshe's butterflies. He had a frame of exotics on his wall. They were incredibly beautiful.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Seiner ships were ecologically sterile. Only their zoos contained nonhuman life, and that the large, well-known mammals.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy had no hobbies of her own. She read for relaxation. She had acquired the habit from her mother.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse even managed passably with a clarinet, an antique woodwind seldom seen anymore. He claimed to have learned from his father.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What about Greta?" Mouse asked. "You think the Department will take care of her?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy jumped at the name. "You never did tell me about Greta, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That was in another life."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were lovers, but they did not know one another well. BenRabi did not like stirring up the snake pit of people's pasts. There was too much chance of finding something nasty. It was there in every life.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But he answered Amy's question. "I told you before. She's a kid I met the last time I was on Old Earth. The last time I visited by mother. She wanted out. Her friends wouldn't let her go. I arranged it for her. And ended up sponsoring her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sort of like being a foster parent," Mouse explained.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guess she'd be eighteen now. I haven't thought about her in ages. You shouldn't have mentioned her, Mouse. Now you've got me worried."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, don't. Max will look out for her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. But that's not right, putting it on somebody else. Is there any way I could send her a letter now and then, Amy? Just to let her know I'm all right and thinking about her? I'd let you or Jarl write it if you wanted. You could even run it through the crypto computer to make sure it's innocent."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This's just a kid?" Amy demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. She reminded me a lot of me when I came off Old Earth. Awful lost. I thought I could help out by sponsoring her. And then I kind of ran out when the Bureau sent us out here. I told her we'd be back in a couple of months. It's been almost fourteen."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll ask Jarl. He lets a little mail go out. Some of us have relatives outside. But it's slow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That doesn't matter. Amy, you're a jewel. I love you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, if you're going to get mushy," Mouse said, standing. "I've got to run. A citizenship class. It's from hunger, Moyshe. Me and Emily Hopkins and this fascist bastard of a teacher... Maybe I'll hurt the arm again. Get back in here so I can miss a few too. Behave. Do what the doctor lady says. Or I'll wring your neck." He made his exit before Moyshe could embarrass him with many thanks-for-comings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're awful quiet today, honey," benRabi said after a while. Perhaps if the doctor had not been there...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm just tired. We're still doing double shifts and barely keeping our heads above water. We're going to be in the Yards a long time. Assuming <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> doesn't fall apart before we get there. Assuming the sharks don't knock us apart."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've mentioned these Yards about fifty times and wouldn't tell me about them. Do you trust me enough now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're what the name sounds like. Where we build and fix our ships. Moyshe, you're not going anywhere for a while. Tell me about you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I met you the very first day. Way back on Carson's, when you signed your contract. We lived together for months before I even found out you've got a daughter. I don't know anything about you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Greta isn't my daughter, honey. I just helped a kid who needed somebody... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's almost the same thing, isn't it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Legally, I guess. On paper. They'd have trouble making it stand up in court."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me. Everything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was little else to do but talk. He talked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The doctor, lurking in the background watching suspiciously, had made it clear that he would be stuck here for a while.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. Let me know when it gets boring."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had been born in North America on Old Earth, to Clarence Hardaway and Myra McClennon. He had hardly known his father. His mother, for reasons he still did not understand, had elected to raise him at home instead of burying him in the State Creche. Only a few Social Insurees raised their children.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His early years had been typical for home-raised S.I. children. Little supervision, little love, little education. He had been running with a kid gang before he was eight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had been nine when he had seen his first offworlders. Spikes, they had called them. These had been Navy men in crisp dress blacks diligently pursuing the arcane business of offworlders.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those uniforms had captured his imagination. They had become an obsession. He had started keying information out of his mother's home data retrieval terminal. He had not had the education to decipher most of it. He had started teaching himself, building from the ground up toward the things he so desperately wanted to know.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At ten he had quit the gang so he would have more time to study. Halfway through his eleventh year the revelation had come. He <em class="calibre9">had</em> to get into space. He had approached a Navy recruiter clandestinely. The man had arranged for him to sneak through the Academy exams.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He never would have made it had there been no special standards and quotas for Old Earthers. He would have gotten skunked had he been in direct competition with carefully prepared Outworlders, many of whom had grown up in the military life. Half the officers in Service were the children of officers. Service was a complete sub-culture, and one that was becoming increasingly less connected with and controlled by the over-culture. He had had motivation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At twelve he had run away from home, fleeing to Luna Command and Academy. In six years he had climbed from dead last to the 95th percentile in class standing. At graduation he had taken his Line option and been assigned to the Fleet. He had served aboard the destroyers <em class="calibre9">Aquataine</em> and <em class="calibre9">Hesse,</em> and the attack cruiser <em class="calibre9">Tamerlane,</em> before requesting Intelligence training.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Following a year of schooling the Bureau had assigned him as Naval Attaché to the Embassy on Feldspar. He had had a half dozen similar assignments on as many worlds before his work attracted the attention of Admiral Beckhart, whose department handled dangerous operations, and tricks on the grey side of legal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had taken part in several tight missions, and had reencountered his former classmate, Mouse. They had shared several assignments, the last being to join the Starfishers to ferret out information that could be used to force the Seiners to enter the Confederation fold.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Some of it Amy had heard before. Some she had not. She was not satisfied. Her first comment was, "You didn't say anything about women."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean? What's that got to do with anything?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Everything, as far as I'm concerned. I want to know who your lovers were and how come you broke up. What they were like... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll shit in your hand and carry it to China first, Lady."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was still a little dopey. He did not realize that he had said it aloud till he began to wonder why she had shut up so suddenly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After one stunned gasp Amy blew out of the room like a tornado looking for a town to wreck.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The lady doctor came out of the background, took his blood pressure. "She's pushy, isn't she?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know what's got into her. She wasn't like that before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've had an interesting life."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not really. I don't think I'd do it the same if I had it to do again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, you could, couldn't you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Rejuvenation. I thought it was available to everybody landside."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Yes. More or less. Some of the brass have been around since Noah landed the Ark. But Fate has a way of catching up with people who try to slide around it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wish we had it out here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't look that old."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was thinking about my father. He's getting on now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see. How soon can I leave?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Any time, really. But I wish you'd wait a couple hours. You'll be weak and dizzy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse was right about sonic sedation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. But I don't write the medical budget. Good luck, Mr. benRabi. Try not to see me again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I hate hospitals, Doctor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did. His only stays had been at Bureau insistence, to modify him mentally or physically.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did a few minor exercises before catching a public tram home.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy was waiting. "Oh, Moyshe. That was stupid of me. You were right. Those things aren't any of my business."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She had been crying. Her eyes were red.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's all right. I understand." But he did not. His cultural background had not prepared him for personal nosiness. In Confederation people lived <em class="calibre9">now.</em> They did not consider the past.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's just that I feel... Well, everything's so chancey the way it is between us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Here she comes, he thought. Hints about getting married.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marriage was important to the Seiners. In Confederation it was more an amusing relic, an entertainment or daydream for the young and the romantic. He could not reconcile his attitudes with Seiner seriousness. Not yet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Starfishers had won his loyalty, but they could not make him a different man. They could not make him reflect themselves merely by adopting him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was Mouse having the same trouble? he wondered. Probably not. Mouse was a chameleon. He could adapt anywhere, vanish into any crowd.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I have to go to work," Amy told him. Weariness seemed to be dragging her down.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'd better get some rest yourself, honey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After she left he took out his stamp collection and turned the well-thumbed album pages. Mouse had opened a Pandora's box by mentioning Max and Greta. After a while he pushed the album aside and tried to compose a letter to the girl.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He could not think of much to say.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36351927" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Five: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Admirals and generals did not have to endure the usual waiting and decontamination procedures getting into Luna Command. The security checks were abbreviated. No staff-grade officer had gone sour since Admiral McGraw had turned freebooter following the peace with Ulant. Admiral Beckhart entered his office just three hours after his personal shuttle berthed a little south of the Sea of Tranquility.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had not spared the horses, in the vernacular of another age. The mother had dropped hyper midway between Luna and L-5. The first message he had received had been code-tagged, "Personal presence required immediately. Critical."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Either the bottom had dropped off of the universe or McClennon and Storm had come home with their saddlebags dripping delicious little secrets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Crew, as he called his hand-picked brain-trust, were in the office when he arrived.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He raised a hand. "As you were. What have we got?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jones asked, "You don't want to shower and change?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart looked ragged. Almost seedy. Like a derelict costumed as an Admiral.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You clowns sent a Personal Presence, Critical. If I've got time to shit, shower, and shave, you should've said it was urgent."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe we were hasty," Namaguchi admitted. "We'd just scanned the crypto breakdown. We were a little excited."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Breakdown? What the hell's going on?" Beckhart tumbled into a huge chair behind a vast, gleaming wood desk. "Get to the point, Akido."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Namaguchi jerked out of his seat, flipped a square of manila across the gleaming desk.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Numbers. Your handwriting hasn't improved."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Section's doing up a printout. That, sir, is what Storm had for us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Morgan Standard Coordinate Data, sir. A stellar designation. Took us two days to convert it from the Sangaree system."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sangaree?... Holy Christ! Is it?... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What we've been waiting for all our lives. Where to find their home star."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah, god. Ah. It can't be. Two hundred years we've been looking. Cutting and dying and generally carrying on like a gang of fascist assholes. So it paid off. I bet my butt on a long shot and it paid off. Give me the comm. Somebody give me the goddamn comm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jones eased it across the desk. Beckhart punched furiously. "Beckhart. Priority. Hey! I don't give a damn if he's banging the Queen of Sheba. Personal, Critical, and I'm going to have your ass for breakfast if you don't... Excuse me, sir." His manners improved dramatically.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir, it is. I want a confirmation of our position on Memorandum of Permanent Policy and Procedure Number Four. Specifically, Paragraph Six."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A long silence ensued. Beckhart's cronies leaned closer and closer to their chief. The man on the other end finally said something.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir. Absolutely. I have the data in my hand, sir. Just decoded. Give me von Drachau and the First Fleet... Yes, sir. What I want is a blank check for a while. I can get started tomorrow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">More silence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then, "Yes, sir. I thought so, sir. I understand, sir. Thank you, sir." Beckhart broke the connection. "He wants to take it up with the Chiefs of Staff."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're going to back down now? After all the lives we've spent?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Commander Jones. Do you <em class="calibre9">realize</em> the enormity of what I just dumped on him? Let me draw you a picture. I interrupted him while von Staufenberg was briefing him on what we saw centerward. Which was about what we expected to see, and as pretty as a barge loaded with dead babies. Some psychopathic race is doing its damnedest to kill off anything sentient it can find. Then I horn in and ask for a confirm on Memo Four slash Six. Which is a vow to exterminate the Sangaree whenever we find out where the hell they're hiding their homeworld. We're supposed to be the good guys, Jones. The things he's looking at right now kind of tend to put the damper on the fires of that good old-time anti-Sangaree righteousness."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't see the problem, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Pragmatically it doesn't exist. Having seen what's going on centerward, I'd say Four slash Six is a strategic imperative. We've got to get those bloodsuckers off our backs fast. They ate us alive during the wars with Ulant and Toke. Any time there's a dust-up between non-Confederation worlds they come on like jackals. Raidships in swarms... Not to mention the price we pay in stardust addiction. Hell, half the fleet is tied up protecting shipping. Four slash Six would free those ships. And if we burned the Sangaree, the McGraws would close up shop. Those are the arguments in favor. Akido. Take the Devil's advocate."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was an old game. Namaguchi knew his commander well. "Sir. How in God's name can we go to the people of Confederation—not to mention our allies—with the news that we've destroyed a whole race? Just when we're about to pump them up with moral indignation so we can justify a preemptive strike against a species we claim is guilty of the identical sin? Let me understate, sir, and say that the positions are inconsistent. Let me say, sir, that we're on a quick slide down into a moral cesspool. We would, quite simply, be the biggest hypocrites this universe has ever seen."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shit," Jones responded with no great force. "There isn't one in a thousand of them would ever see the inconsistency. They'll cheer about the Sangaree going down, then go sign up for the war against these centerward creeps. Akido, you're giving Mr. Average Man too much credit. He can't even follow his credit balance, let alone weigh a moral one."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Charlie, that attitude is going to destroy Luna Command. And when we go, Confederation goes. When Confederation goes, the barbarians come in. In the words of the Roman Centurion Publius Minutius, speaking of the legions, ‘We <em class="calibre9">are</em> the Empire.' "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just a minute," Beckhart interjected. "Akido. Come over here." He pushed the comm across the desk. "Punch up the library and get me an abstract on this Minutius."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uh... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought so. Another one of your out-of-the-dark authorities."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Namaguchi chuckled. It was a favorite trick. His boss was the only man who caught him every time. "Actually, old Publius probably said something more like, ‘Which way to the nearest whorehouse, buddy?' But I'll stake my reputation on the fact that some Roman soldier said it somewhere along the way. It was true. The army <em class="calibre9">was</em> the Empire."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't have any reputation to stake, Akido," Jones quipped.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The army got a lot of help from the fact that everybody in the provinces went along with a lot of tacit rules, Akido," Beckhart remarked. "We're getting off the subject. What about McClennon's report?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're still working on it. First abstracts should be up any time now. The key thing we've gotten is that the Starfishers did go after Stars' End. So you guessed right on that one, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't guess. I had inside information."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whatever. That's where Storm came up with the Sangaree data. Raidships hit the harvestfleet there. They came out on the short end. The point is, the Seiners were sure they could pull it off. The battering the Sangaree gave them is what kept them from trying."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How soon will those boys be done de-briefing? I want to see them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Silence hit that room like a cat jumping on a mouse. It stretched till it became an embarrassment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uh... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not one of your more endearing traits, Akido. I don't need protecting. Out with it. Who got hurt? How bad was it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's not that. Sir, they didn't come back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're dead? How did they?... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're alive. But they crossed over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Remember, McClennon was programed for it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know that. It was my idea. But he wasn't supposed to make a career out of it. He didn't de-program? What the hell was wrong with Storm? What's his story? Why didn't he bring Thomas out?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're working on it, sir. Interrogating returnees. When we can lay hands on them. They scattered after they hit Carson's, before we knew we had a problem. Near as we can tell, Storm stayed behind because he didn't want to leave McClennon there alone. The programming must have broken down. McClennon asked to stay. They kept Storm from bringing him out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see. That would be like Mouse. Don't leave your wounded behind. He's too much like his father. I knew Gneaus Storm. When you get to the bottom line, it was his sense of honor that got him killed. Well, I've got my honor too, even if it's a little discolored around the edges. I don't leave my wounded behind either. Akido, I want those boys brought out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jones snorted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Charles? What's biting your ass?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was just thinking that anybody who cared as much about his troops as you put on wouldn't have thrown them back in the furnace before they'd cooled off from The Broken Wings. And you hit them with that one before they'd cooled off from... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey! Charlie, it's my conscience. I'm the one who's got to live with it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Storm could handle it. He didn't get the deep Psych-briefings. But McClennon... You probably overloaded the poor bastard. He was goofy at his best times."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's enough. Right now, right here, we finish crying about Storm and McClennon. That understood? We start figuring out how to get them back. And in our spare time we worry about the Four slash Six. And come bedtime, if you get tempted to waste time sleeping, start figuring how we're going to get a hammerlock on the Starfishers before they get their hands on Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir?" Namaguchi inquired.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One of you clowns told me they were sure they could get in. You know what happens if they do?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We bend over and kiss our asses good-bye. Because we're dead. We can hope, but we'll still be in the line to the showers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't follow your reasoning this time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're not looking at the whole picture, that's why. The gestalt, if that's the right word. Look. If they get those weapons before we do, they can tell us to go pound sand and make it stick. We won't get control of ambergris production, meaning the Fleet will have to do without adequate instel communications, meaning its chances against those centerward things will go down to zit. They aren't your candy-ass Ulantonids, planning to give us a fair shake after they whip us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"On the other hand," Namaguchi suggested, "if we get the Fishers under the gun in time, we'll not only be able to equip the Fleet, we'll have the potential of the Stars' End weaponry. Assuming it's adaptable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There," Beckhart told the others. "You see why Akido is the Crown Prince around here. You take a stick and whack on him long enough and he actually starts thinking. Let's do a little brainstorming, gentlemen. Along the lines of turning our liabilities into assets."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jones suggested, "Regarding the Four slash Six paradox. The right leak of the right info at the right time at the right place might give Luna Command a public opinion base that would make the kill a matter of popular demand. There are some real pros in the Public Information Office. They've done a hell of a job creating a climate of trepidation with hints about trouble in the March. Suppose they let a little truth wriggle out now? Just enough so people start asking what kind of horror we're covering up by giving our friends from Ulant a bad press. There isn't anything the public won't swallow quicker than a good conspiracy theory. Especially a cover-up conspiracy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart chuckled. "What is this? Two brains working in one room? At the same time? Gentlemen, that's a first. So. We've got a couple of things to work on. Will they let us orchestrate the show?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why don't we just do it? It wouldn't be the first time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But it could be the last. We've reached a crossroads. We—and I mean everybody in Luna Command—are going to have to fine-tune the Luna Command machine. It won't have the internal tolerance for playing games with each other. We don't have much time to get ready for this centerward race... That plan is simple. We're going to hit them first, hit them hard, and keep hitting them with everything we've got."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The way Ulant did us?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Exactly. The Prime Defender's General Staff is doing the planning, based on their intelligence. She'll modify it daily, keeping as close to the realtime situation as she can. We come up with something, it'll be programed in. If the centerward crowd do something unexpected, that'll go in too. They've sent out a whole fleet of self-destruct equipped, instelled scout ships to keep track of what's happening."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir, that strategy didn't work for Ulant before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It may not work this time, but it's the best shot we've got. Ulant's intelligence analyses paint a pretty grim picture. The numbers... You'll see the tapes. While you're watching, remember that you're only seeing one battle fleet. Ulant has identified another four. They just seem to skip from star to star behind a swarm of scouts, coming out the Arm, scouring every inhabited world of any sentient life." The comm hummed. Beckhart stabbed it with one finger. "Beckhart. Yes, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sound was uni-directional, the picture flat-faced television. The others could not hear, nor could they identify the caller. After listening awhile, Beckhart said, "Very well, sir," in an unhappy tone. He punched out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That was the C.S.N.. They've decided to go with Four slash Six. But they're not going to let us run it. He said they'll use von Drachau, but R and D will have operational control."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"R and D? What the hell?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What have they got going over there? What don't we know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The comm hummed again. Beckhart answered, said, "This one's for you, Charlie."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jones sat on the edge of the vast desk, turned the comm his way. "Go ahead." In a few seconds his tall, lean, black frame began quivering with excitement. "Good. All right. Thank you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well?" Beckhart growled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One of my Electronic Intercept people. They just picked up a message from the Starfisher Council to Confederation Senate. Routine request for clearance to hold an ambergris auction. They asked for The Broken Wings. Usual rules and mutual obligations. The same request they send whenever they hold auction on a Confederation world."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Broken Wings is close to Stars' End. Any other reason to be excited?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Payne's Fleet is going to sponsor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart stared at his hands for more than a minute. When he looked up his expression had become beatific. "Gentlemen, the gods love us after all. Cancel all leaves. Cancel any computation capacity loans we have out. Pass the word that we're going on overtime. Everybody, including the janitors and shredder operators. I've got a feeling we'll find a rose in this dungheap yet." He laughed demoniacally. "Eyes open and ears to the ground gentlemen. Everything that comes in from now on—and I mean <em class="calibre9">everything</em>—goes into the master program for correlation. And have the programming teams start working backward. I want the biggest and best goddamned model outside the High Command Strategic Analysis. Let's see if we can't do this all up in one big, pretty package."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart departed his desk and unlocked his personal bar. He took out glasses and the half gallon of genuine Old Earth Scotch he saved for occasions of millennial significance. "A toast to successes and victories. Hopefully ours." He poured doubles.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36352372" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Six: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The five great harvestships barely moved. Their velocity relative to the debris was a scant three kilometers per hour. Gnatlike service ships flitted before the head and flanks of their line, nudging any flying mountain that threatened collision.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was almost an embarrassment, the way those swift monsters of the spatial deeps had to crawl. Elsewhere they could have sprinted off and left light lagging like a toddler behind an Olympic runner. Here they could not match the pace of a lazily strolling old man.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those battered survivors of Payne's Fleet had been making the passage for a week.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The dense boulder screen gave way to a less crowded region occupied principally by asteroidal chunks the size of small moons. The harvestfleet accelerated. The line dispersed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, you kept asking about the Yards," Amy told benRabi. "We're there." She indicated the viewscreen they had been watching.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, but... " All Moyshe saw was a big asteroid illuminated by <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> powerful lights. A few smaller boulders drifted around it. Not one star was visible in the background. All outside light was screened by the dust of the nebula.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion</em> seemed to be stalking that big asteroid.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's nothing here. We're in the tail end of nowhere. I expected a hidden planet. Maybe even Osiris. Something First Expansion. Strange cities, drydocks... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Planetary docks? How could we take <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> into atmosphere? Or lift her out of a gravity well? Most of your Navy ships wouldn't try that."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But you'd have to have thousands of people to work on a ship this big. Tens of thousands. Not to mention a hell of an industrial base, and one all-time grandfather of a drydock."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The dock's right in front of you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Where?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Watch and see."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He watched. And he saw.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A gargantuan piece of rock began separating from the asteroid. In time it exposed a brightly lit interior vast enough to accept a harvestship. Diminutive tugs swarmed out. Some pushed the cork. Some hurried toward <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> like eager bees to a clover patch.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi saw a glow in the remote distance. Another asteroid was opening its stone mouth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're going inside?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You got it. You catch on quick, don't you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Smart mouth."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They'll lock the door behind us. Then they'll flood the chamber with air. The work goes faster that way. And the dock will hide us from any snoopers who wander by."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who would come poking around in a mess like this? That would be asking to get fine-ground between those flying millstones."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi was less surprised by the existence of the nebula than by the Seiners' willingness to hazard it. Similar asteroidal shoals existed inside several dust nebulae.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But they come anyway. Moyshe, this's the Three Sky Nebula."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Not really? Yes. I guess you're serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One of the most dramatic actions of the Ulantonid War had occurred in the outer shoals of the Three Sky Nebula. After the war, the repatriated human survivors had circulated stories of having seen abandoned alien ships there. Some had been wrecks, some had appeared to be intact.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Three Sky had won an immediate reputation as a Sargasso of space. The treasure-seekers, xeno-archaeologists, and official investigators who went there hunting the alien ships were seldom seen again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The expeditions... There must have been fifteen or twenty that disappeared. What happened to them?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We interned them before they could stumble onto something and run home to report it. They're doing what they came to do. They just can't go home."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why risk setting up here if the traffic gets so heavy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The risk isn't that big. We don't have visitors very often. Not when they always disappear. And, of course, it's such an unlikely place to look for us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Still... There's been talk at Luna Command, off and on, about sending a squadron to back up an investigation. In case it's McGraws or Sangaree that have been getting the others."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If that happened, we'd fight. And we'd win. Only a fool would attack what we've made out of Three Sky. We've been here since before the Ulantonid War. That's a lot of time to get ready. It'd be almost like guerrilla warfare. We think we can hold off Confederation if we ever have to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think you're a little over-optimistic. For people who don't have the muscle to duke it out with the sharks. I'll let you know for sure after I've looked things over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why do you say that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because I haven't met a Seiner yet who had the least idea of just how big and strong Confederation is. Or how tough Luna Command can be when they put their minds to it. Or that your weapons systems are prehistoric relics. <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> got a ton of firepower, but one Empire Class battleship could carve this whole harvestfleet up like a side of beef and never get in a sweat."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think you're probably too impressed with your Navy. Our shortcomings were calculated into our defense plans."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi decided not to argue. Each of them was telling the truth as he or she knew it. "Are the creches here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Some. All of them will be someday. It's a big job, civilizing a nebula."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mainly an engineering problem, I'd think."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. But it takes time and money. Especially money. We have to buy everything we can't manufacture ourselves. Which means we have to wait for the auctions because our credit is pretty slim."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah. I begin to see why the good doctor was making do with primitive equipment."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've colonized more than seven thousand asteroids, Moyshe," Amy proudly declared. "But we've only just begun. They're all cramped. The harvestships are cramped. Our other hidden places are overcrowded. We've been taking in Confederation's dropouts for two hundred years. The ones who didn't become McGraws or run away to the outworlds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Outworlds was a word as relative as <em class="calibre9">yonder.</em> For benRabi, born an Old Earther, it meant anything off Old Earth. Around Luna Command it meant any planet not one of the original seven founders of Confederation. Those seven usually called themselves The Inner Worlds. But out on the fringes of Confederation outworlds were human planets not signatory to the federal pact. BenRabi was unsure which meaning Amy wanted to convey.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You didn't answer my question," he said. "Why here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because of the industrial advantages. The stories those internees took back were true. There's a lot of salvageable stuff here. We've identified over thirty thousand wrecks and abandoned ships. Built by seven different races."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really?" He ticked fingers. He could name five, not counting humanity. Six if he counted the prehistoric race that had built Stars' End. "I'll give you human and Ulantonid. From the war. Who were the others?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you'd wonder why they'd be here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He frowned at her. Was she trying to bait him by showing off her superior knowledge? Savoring one minuscule advantage? He knew more than she about almost everything and she seemed to take it as a personal affront.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I imagine because it's a good place to lay an ambush. That's why <em class="calibre9">Carolingian</em> came here during the war."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her smile shrank. "Yeah. And because it's close to the obvious space lanes. Moyshe, there've been battles here for ages. Probably for millions of years. Or even billions. Except for the wrecks from the Ulantonid war, which I didn't even count, none of the ships here were built by any race we've ever met. They were all extinct before man ever left Old Earth. Or at least they were gone from this part of the galaxy. They all pre-date any of the races we have encountered."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ask the starfish about them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We did. We're not stupid. But they don't have much to tell. They don't pay any more attention to hard matter races than we do to bacteria. Less, really, because we're curious and they aren't. We're pretty sure one bunch of ships, though, belonged to a race that moved the ancestors of the Sangaree from Earth to wherever it is their homeworld is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah? Don't let Mouse know about that. He'll drive you crazy trying to get to them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Only in this century had geneticists surrendered to the popular notion that Human and Sangaree sprang from the same root stock. The man in the street would not believe in a parallel evolution so similar that it could produce a being indistinguishable from himself. Scientists had demurred, citing no evidence on Old Earth for extraterrestrial intervention...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then the abandoned alien base beneath the moon's dark side had been discovered. Some major rethinking had been necessary. Then had come confirmation of reports that the human female could, occasionally, be impregnated by the Sangaree male.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The most famous—or infamous—of Sangaree agents, Michael Dee, had been half human.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse will be protected from himself."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi studied her. She wore an oddly ferocious expression.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy, I've been here almost fourteen months and you're still springing surprises on me. When are you going to run out?" He stared into the hollow asteroid and awaited her response.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, what happened to the people who built Stars' End?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll probably never know. Unless somebody cracks its defenses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll do that. We're going back. That was a rhetorical question."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a sec. Back? To Stars' End? After what happened? You're out of your minds. You're all raving lunatics."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She laughed. "Moyshe, they left their ships behind when they disappeared. Right here. God knows how many of them there are. Three Sky occupies a cubic light-year. We haven't explored a tenth of it. They had their yards and secret places too. Most of the ships we find were theirs. They were the people who transported the Sangaree, we think. We have explorers who don't do anything but hunt for their hideouts. Every one we find is one we don't have to build for ourselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He spoke to the engulfing maw in the viewscreen. "She's serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Absolutely, darling. Absolutely. Oh, we're not really <em class="calibre9">sure</em> that it was the same race that did all three things. But the computers go with the probability. See, these are mostly good ships, Moyshe. They aren't derelicts. Some of them still have a little emergency power left. They try to scare us off with mind noises the way Stars' End does. And they have parts missing. Somebody took off all their weapons. I wish we had a whole army of xeno-archaeologists and anthropologists. It's really interesting. I always go see what they're working on whenever we come in. The scientists don't go very fast. They're mostly ones we captured, so they aren't real enthusiastic about helping us out. They train some of our people as aides, sometimes. Old folks and birth defect types who can't do much else."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That don't make sense. People don't abandon good ships, Amy. Where did they go? Why? How? And if they did build Stars' End, <em class="calibre9">why?</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She shrugged. "They weren't people, Moyshe. Not our kind. Don't judge their motives by ours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't... though some ideas would seem universal. Just thinking questions out loud."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The questions are why I wish we had more scientists." She switched the viewscreen over to a stern camera. <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> was well into the asteroid's interior. "They could be the same creatures that did the tunneling at Luna Command. But were they really? Is there a connection between the moon and Three Sky and Stars' End? Were we meant to find Stars' End and Three Sky? Is it all some kind of big puzzle that we're supposed to figure out? Is it a test?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think they were planning to come back?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who knows? The questions are all a hundred years old. The answers haven't been born. And if we ever do answer any of them, then right away we're going to ask three more.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Anyway, those old ships are our main reason for being here. Some we fix up and use. They make good service ships. If they can be adapted. We scavenge some for materials to build harvestships. We only buy outside if we have to. Usually the Freehaulers make our purchases landside, for a commission, and make delivery to an asteroid at the edge of the nebula. They think it's just a way station. They don't ask questions. Too many questions is bad for business. They don't try very hard to follow us around, either. They're good people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is that a cut?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you think so."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I suspected the Freehaulers. I know they had something to do with me and Mouse getting caught. How's chances of me getting to look at one of those ships? I know a little about xeno-archaeology."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A girl's face crossed his mind. Alyce. She had been his Academy love. She had been a recorder at the alien digs in the moon. She had taught him a little, and the Bureau had taught him more.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Sooner or later, the Bureau touched every base.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll have to ask Jarl. I don't think he'll let you, though. We're going to be awful busy repairing <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Plus you've got your citizenship classes and your beer nights with Mouse."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now don't start that again. He's my friend, and that's the way it's going to stay. It don't hurt for him and me to play a couple of games of chess once in a while. You can come keep an eye on us if you think we're cooking up a plot against the Greater Seiner Empire, Lieutenant."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She ignored his sarcasm. "I don't feel like it. I always... " She stopped before she began waving the red flag. Their positions were inflexible. Argument would be pointless. "Moyshe, we've got to get <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> whipped into shape fast. The fleets are coming in. As soon as they're all here we're leaving for auction and another crack at Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stars' End. Stars' End. That's all I hear anymore. And it's completely insane. We can't stick our necks in that noose again, Amy. Look what it cost last time. And remember, I was there too. I was outside with the starfish. I know what that planet can do."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've got to have those weapons, Moyshe. You saw the casualty reports. You saw the extrapolations. What the sharks are doing now is going to look pacifistic in ten years. We're talking survival, Love. And you're still thinking power politics."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll just get yourselves killed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Either way, then. But we'll handle Stars' End. Honest. The fish really do know how to open the way. They found the key while we were there before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Huh?" He had not caught a hint from Chub. "The Sangaree, or Confederation... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They'd better come toting their guns if they want to steal it from us, Moyshe. Because they'll have a hell of a fight on their hands. There's a lot of us, honey. And we're looking for a fight. People have been pushing us ever since I can remember. We're tired of it. Once we get those weapons... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And sharks, darling. Don't forget the sharks. Oh, it's bound to be a gay party. How do I get transferred to a ground job?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't." She laughed. "I just heard a couple hours ago. You're going to be transferred to Security for the auction project."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She did not tell him that the auction project would be a pilot for a more ambitious program. If he and Storm performed well and faithfully they would be given joint chieftainship of their own espionage outfit. She did not think her own boss, Jarl Kindervoort, knew yet. The Ship's Commander seemed reluctant to discuss it with the man.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Auction? That's Mouse's special haunt. How'd he get stuck with it, anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's going to be yours, too. Our new mindtechs will start coming aboard in a couple of days. And you'll move over to the project."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Because you know The Broken Wings."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. And I want to forget it." His previous mission, as a Bureau agent, had taken him to The Broken Wings. It had been a nasty affair.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's where the auction's going to be held. They already sent the permission request. It's just form from here on."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Form? What you want to bet the place is crawling with Confies and Sangaree? You people stirred up some bad feelings... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She hit you pretty hard, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The woman. The Sangaree woman. That Marya Strehltsweiter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? How did you?... Mouse. Shooting off his mouth."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He didn't exactly volunteer it. And he told Jarl, not me. I found out when I was looking through the files for something else."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right." His heart hammered for no reason he could justify to himself. So he had gotten involved with the woman. He had not known she was Sangaree then. "It's over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. I knew that a long time ago. Mouse wrote that report after you shot her. I guess he thought it was important for Jarl to understand what you were going through."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That did not sound like Mouse. "She would've killed all of us. Sooner or later. I had to do it. I never shot anybody before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Especially somebody you still halfway cared about, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Can we drop it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Did Mouse really do that? Inject her children with stardust?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. Mouse plays for keeps. He doesn't have trouble with his conscience. Not the way I do."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You really think the Sangaree will be at the auction?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They'll be there. They hold a grudge the way Mouse does. Amy, I don't want to get involved in that. I'm happy where I'm at. I like linking. Chub is a good friend. I was just scared there at first. I've been getting to know the other members of the herd... Hell, sometimes I go in just to bullshit with Chub."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi could relax with the starfish as he could with no human. He did not feel naked when he let the starfish see what he really felt and thought. Chub made no value judgments. His values were not human. He had, in fact, helped Moyshe make some small peace within himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Parts of his mind remained inaccessible to the starfish. Whole sections were hidden behind rigid walls. Moyshe could not guess what might lie there. He could sense nothing missing from his past.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Seiner life was changing Mouse, too, he reflected. Storm was becoming even more sure of himself, more bigger-than-life than he had always been. BenRabi could not pin it down. One or two nights a week playing chess together was not the same as sharing a minute to minute life under fire.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse was an operative born. He had changed allegiance, but not professions. He had become part of Jarl Kindervoort's staff.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Flying easy. That was what benRabi had been doing since his release from the hospital. The only pressure he faced was Amy's near-militance in hinting about their getting married. Under Chub's ministrations his neuroses were scaling away. He had come to the Seiners with a great many.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not much more to see," Amy told him. The rearmost cameras were inside the asteroid. The tugs were guiding the cork back toward the entrance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. I'd better go say good-bye to Chub."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He reached Contact almost as quickly as he had the day of the last battle. "Clara. Where's Hans?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's off. We don't have anything going."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I want to go in. They're telling me I'm going to be transferred."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You can't. We're closed down, Moyshe. They'll be cutting power in a minute. Heck, the herd should be out of range by now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Clara, I probably won't ever get another chance."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah, Moyshe. It's silly. But all right. Get on the couch." She prepared his scalp and the hairnet device in seconds. The helmet devoured his head almost before he could catch his breath.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shifted to TSD, then onward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The colors of the nebula were incredible. It was a dreary place to the eye, completely dark unless illuminated artificially. In this internal universe Moyshe could reach out and touch all the specks of it, the clouds of luminescent dust, the glowing asteroids majestically circling the nebula's center in their million-year orbits. He could even sense the protostar down in the nebula's heart, lying patiently in its time-womb, gathering the sustenance it would need to blaze for eons.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chub!" his mind shouted into the color storm. "Are you there? Can you hear me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a time he thought there would be no answer. The herd lay far off the bounds of the nebula, beyond the pain threshold of its diminutive gravitation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then, "Moyshe man-friend? What is happening?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The link was tenuous. He could barely discern the starfish's thoughts. He could not locate the creature with his inner sight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I came to say good-bye, Chub. They say I'm not going to be a mindtech anymore. You were right. They want me to go back to being what I was."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah. I am saddened, Moyshe man-friend. I am saddened because you are sad. We have been good friends. I am pleased that you thought it important to let me know. So many linkers just disappear. Perhaps this last time we can break through those barriers, Moyshe man-friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But those corners of benRabi's mind would not yield.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe." Clara's voice seemed to come from kilometers away. "They're going to shut the power off. You've got to come out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Farewell, Moyshe man-friend." BenRabi could feel the sadness in the starfish.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go softly, golden dragon," he whispered. "My heart flies with you down the long dark journey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub's sadness welled up. Moyshe could not stand it. He pounded the switch beneath his left hand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was very little pain. He had not been under long. "I don't need it, Clara." He pushed the needle away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe. You're crying."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Just leave me alone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He heard the hurt in her voice. He struggled off of the couch, pulled her to him. "I'm sorry. Clara, I haven't known you very long. But you've been a good friend. I'll miss you. And Hans, too. Tell him to behave."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see that he does. He's my grandson."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. I didn't know." What had he heard about Hans's sister? Or was it mother? She had been lost with <em class="calibre9">Jariel.</em> Clara had never let on.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There're a lot of things you don't know, Moyshe benRabi. About people. Because you never get around to asking."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Clara... Clara, come visit. Will you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Promise? Amy would love to meet you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I promise. Now get out of here before somebody calls the boss and wants to know what the hell's going on up here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Clara. Thanks a lot. For everything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His return trip was less precipitous. He was not eager to get home. Amy was bound to be waiting with some unimaginative new approach to the subject of marriage.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36353105" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Seven: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the occasion?" benRabi asked. He had come home to find Amy clad only in a negligee. She had been playing body games all week. He supposed she was holding out in hopes lust would make him propose. She was going to be disappointed. He was not seventeen.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The tactic did not bode well for their relationship. There was no future in any relationship where one party practiced extortion upon the other. No one endured that for long. And benRabi had had his fill of it from Alyce, way back when.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was this why he was so reluctant? Because Amy came on like a spoiled child?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Why <em class="calibre9">did</em> he resist it? If he was to make a life here he had to surrender to the culture. This one had scant tolerance for prolonged bachelorhoods.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Older singles tended to get shoved beyond the social fringes. He was out there now. And Mouse, for all the charm he exuded, was slipping too. The ladies were not buzzing round so much anymore. He had made it too clear that he was available for good times only, not for long times and old-style fidelity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If Amy was the best available, why not?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Part of it was habit. He had been a loner for too long, caught up in a profession where responsibilities to anyone else made a deadly liability. That was why, through mission after mission, he had fought his growing friendship for Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had failed at that, and Mouse had too. They saw so little of one another nowadays... That was a pity. Just when they had given in to it, life had taken a twist and spun them along separate paths.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That would end with his transfer to Security, wouldn't it?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's a bright side to everything, I guess," he murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thinking about Mouse, he remembered their last evening together. He could have sworn Mouse had been hinting that he should do something about Amy. It was a damned conspiracy!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Why the hell would Mouse want him married? Mouse did not believe in the institution.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He should take the plunge. But not too soon. He could not let Amy get the idea that she could manipulate him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He sat with his head in his hands, scurrying around the slot-tracks of an uncertain mind. The tracks did not always follow sane routes. There were moments when he did not know who or where he was. Sometimes he did not understand what was happening, or why. Sometimes he woke up thinking he was back on The Broken Wings, or in Luna Command. There had been a night when he had called Amy Max while they were making love... And a time when he had thought she was Greta... Frightening though they were, those had been isolated incidents. So far.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He and Amy made love fiercely, desperately.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She started getting dressed immediately afterward. "What's going on?" he asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You forgot? We're supposed to have supper with the Sheik and his harem."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One thing I'm going to tell you right now, woman. And you better understand it. That man's my friend. Learn to fly with it." He had forgotten the dinner. Completely. There wasn't a ghost of memory to be found anywhere in his head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They joined Mouse and his shrinking clutch of dollies an hour later. BenRabi found his eye roving. Mouse had several honeys he would not mind topping himself. He dared not let Amy notice him looking. Any woman who got that jealous of a male friend...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This affair is headed for trouble, he thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort appeared suddenly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jarl Kindervoort was a tall, lean man who reminded benRabi of Don Quixote, or the Pale Imperator in Czyzewski's novel, <em class="calibre9">His Banners Bright And Golden.</em> Like Amy, and most <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> Seiners, he was pale, blond, and blue-eyed. BenRabi liked him as a person and found him physically repulsive. It was a combination he did not comprehend.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not quite understand Kindervoort's position in the <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> scheme either. Kindervoort was, apparently, Amy's immediate superior. Amy was only a Lieutenant, a low-grade officer, yet her boss seemed to speak for <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> whole Security force. The ship had a population matching that of a fair-sized city. Could the police force be that small?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort had high cheekbones and a lantern jaw. They gave him a death's head look. His pale eyes were seldom happy. He could have given Mouse lessons in cold stares. Yet he was a genuinely warm and caring person. He asked, "May I join you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure, Jarl," Mouse said. "Glad to have you." Amy and benRabi nodded. Kindervoort settled down, plunged into his meal tray. He did not join the table banter. Neither did benRabi, though Amy brightened for a while and kept up with Mouse in a thrust and parry duel of the risqué and outré.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">During his dessert Kindervoort asked, "You told him yet?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Oh. I forgot," Amy replied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Told me what?" benRabi asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're moving you to Security. Starting tomorrow. For the auction project."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. That. I know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who told you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not stupid, Jarl. I may act it, but I'm a trained professional. I can see the signs and add the numbers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah. Exactly. That's why we want you on the auction thing. You're a professional. And you know The Broken Wings. Payne's Fleet has gotten the shove into the barrel this time. Payne thinks <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> should provide the protection for our auction crew. Off the record, I'd guess we get the auction because Gruber doesn't want any Payne people with him at Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Stars' End? Christ! I'm starting to hope a rogue singularity comes romping around and gobbles up that goddamned gun-runner's pyramid like a big fat chocolate cherry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe! What in the name of... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl, you people are crazy. Every last one of you. I won't stand around on the steps of the Senate screaming ‘Beware the Ides of March!' but only because none of you whackos have got the sense to listen. It's going to kill you. Can't you get that through your thick heads? But what do I care? You're only taking me down with you. All right. What do you want me on The Broken Wings for?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Security shift leader down in Angel City. Night shift. I picked your men already. I want you to start drilling them tomorrow. The feedback we get says it might get hairy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What'd I tell you?" benRabi told Amy. To Kindervoort, "At the risk of sounding inane, why me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You and Mouse both. Because you know the city."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. And he gets stuck with the other shift? Twelve hours at a crack. Wait. It's only nine on The Broken Wings, but that's bad enough, watch and watch with some guy around every corner waiting to burn you. You know what you're asking us to walk into?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?" Kindervoort would not meet his eye. He knew.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse killed her kids. I shot her here. And you let her get away. She'll be there if she has to walk halfway across the galaxy. When she hears our fleet is going to handle it... It won't matter if she can get her people's okay. She'll come, Kindervoort. With every goddamned thing she can lay hands on. Come to think of it, the Heads will probably back her even if they don't like it. They're going to be damned hot about what happened to the raidfleet at Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Anything else bothering you, Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'd like to hear all your objections now. So we can get them out of the way ahead of time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. Why trust me? I'm the man you caught leading Navy ships to your herd, remember?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Three points. One, you're a convert. I saw your test results. Two, the Ship's Commander recommended you. And the third I'd rather keep to myself."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi tried to remember all the tests he had taken, both before and after deciding to remain with the Starfishers. They had seemed standard, but he might have missed something. "Typical security-type job? Three hours' sleep and ten minutes for personals every day? Need them or not?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Probably." Kindervoort smiled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His smile did not have the desired effect on benRabi. Moyshe saw it as grim, not friendly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then I'd better settle my affairs. Because I don't expect to get through this one alive. I was going to put this off a few days. Mouse, want to be best man? Jarl, you can stand witness. Everybody's invited. I'll put on a party in my room afterwards. If we can come up with anything drinkable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nobody said anything for several seconds. Mouse stared blankly. Kindervoort managed to appear both surprised and amused. Mouse's girls just looked puzzled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy showed a half dozen quick reactions. Lack of comprehension. Stunned disbelief. Shock. Distress that threatened to become anger. "It isn't fair," she murmured. She wanted a pompous, ostentatious Archaicist affair with all the splendor of old-time royal weddings. "You're making fun of me." Their friends knew how badly she wanted him to propose.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had to reassure her quickly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl, can we get it done now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We could start in ten minutes if you're serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go ahead."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, that isn't fair!" Amy cried. "You never even asked me! And I'm not dressed for it and I haven't got anything to wear and... " She had a whole list of ands and buts. BenRabi and Kindervoort waited till she got them out of her system.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do I call or not, Amy?" Kindervoort asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh!" She hit the table with her fists. "Yes! Yes, dammit! Call him. Moyshe benRabi, you are the meanest, connivingest man I've ever known. How can you do this to me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey! You've been all over me about it... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Isn't love wonderful?" Mouse asked the air. Amy stopped bitching. Mouse had given her a look which warned her that she was pushing her luck.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ceremony was not what she wanted. Moyshe kissed her and whispered, "If I get out alive, you'll have the real thing. The big one you want. That's a promise."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After the reception began, Kindervoort pulled Mouse and benRabi aside. "Finally got some word on that failsafer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Back when the landside contractees had been boarding the service ship for return to Confederation a man had tried to kill them when it had become obvious that they were staying behind. He had suicided after missing. They had assumed he was a Bureau agent failsafing them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The autopsy finally got done," Kindervoort said. "He was Sangaree."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sangaree!" Mouse said it as if it were a swear word.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. And he did commit suicide. He was wearing a poison ring."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nobody killed him? There wasn't a second failsafer?" BenRabi shook his head. "That doesn't make sense."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It didn't make sense when we thought there were two of them, and one got away," Mouse said. "Looks to me like he was Strehltsweiter's man, not the Admiral's. Makes sense in that context. She wanted us pretty bad."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's the way I figured it," Kindervoort said. "Till now I halfway thought it might have been a setup. To make you look more palatable. It doesn't look that obvious anymore. I'm confused, though. She was in intensive care all the time. Isolated. How did she make contact? How did she relay the order, even assuming the failsafer was pre-programed? If you come up with any theories, let me know. I'd hate to think my own people helped her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uhm." BenRabi glanced at Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse shrugged. "I was sure he was Beckhart's."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ever heard of a Sangaree suiciding?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It happens. Borroway."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Those were kids. They didn't have any other way out, and they knew too much."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He had to be programed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's going on?" Amy demanded. "Consoling the victim, Mouse? You look like your best friend just died."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll talk it out later, Mouse. No, we were just talking about something Jarl brought up. Sort of a puzzle. Let's dance, honey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was a zestless party. It did not last long. Neither did the honeymoon. Mouse dragged benRabi out early next morning.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. I'm supposed to be a newlywed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on. You been tapping it for eight months. Getting married didn't make it new. Jarl wants us. Time to go into training."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi spent the next fourteen hours talking about Angel City, studying maps, teaching the use of small arms in a coliseum cube that had been commandeered for the purpose.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His group consisted of twenty-five people. Mouse had another the same size. Mouse drilled his mercilessly in unarmed combat. His was the easier task. His students at least had some idea of what he was talking about.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi worked at it, but thought the Seiners were taking everything too damned seriously—despite his own admonition about how rough it could get.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He vacillated between a belief that they would find The Broken Wings hip deep in Sangaree and the opposing view, that Navy Security would be so tight that not one unfriendly would get through.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His fourth morning of teaching was interrupted by Kindervoort. "Moyshe. Sorry. Got to take you off this today. They've got a tour planned for citizenship applicants."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can't it wait? This auction won't, and these clowns are so bad they couldn't hurt themselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I argued. I got shouted down. I guess they think it's important that you know what you're fighting for."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? I never did before, and I did my job... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. You're bitter today."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just frustrated. The more I see, the worse it looks. We're going to get hurt if this thing goes Roman candle, Jarl. We won't be ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do the best you can. That's all you can ever do, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes that's not enough, Jarl. I want to do enough."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Make a vacation out of today. Just relax. I don't think it's that important. They're supposed to show you what life's like for Starfishers who don't live on harvestships. Probably do you good to get away from Amy, too. I don't know what's the matter with her. She's even bitchy around the office anymore."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've known her longer than I have. You figure it out. You tell me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stalked in. "You ready, Moyshe? I scrounged a scooter. Let's go before somebody liberates it back."</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36353568" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Eight: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hel did not belong. It was a Pluto-sized twerp of a straggler planet which, like an orphaned puppy, had taken up with the first warm body it had come across. When it did so, it set up for business too far from the unstable Cepheid it adopted. Even at perihelion in its lazy, eggy orbit it did not receive enough warmth to melt carbon dioxide.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hel was a black eight ball of a world silver-chased by ice lying in the canyons of its wrinkled carcass. Its sun was but the brightest of the stars in its sky. No one would expect such a planet to exist, and no one would want to visit it if a suspicion of its existence arose.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those were the reasons Confederation's Navy Bureau of Research and Development considered Hel the perfect site for a bizarre, dangerous, and ultra-secret research project.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hel Station lay buried in a mountain like a clam in sand. Its appendages reached the surface at just two points.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Station was not meant to be found.</div>
  

  <div class="paragraph">"Ion?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu was a sight. His waistcoat was soiled, ragged, and wrinkled. His hose was bagged and falling. His wig was askew. His facial makeup was caked and streaked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ion?" Neidermeyer said a second time, catching his friend's elbow. "You hear the news? Von Drachau is coming here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu yanked his arm away. "Who?" At the moment he did not give a damn about anything, Paul's news included. The agony was too much for mortal man to bear. He yanked a grimy silk handkerchief from a pocket, cleared the water from his eyes. Paul should not see his tears.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Von Drachau. Jupp von Drachau. The guy who pulled off that raid in the Hell Stars a couple of years back. You remember. The commentators called him High Command's fair-haired boy. They talked like he'd be Chief of Staff Navy someday."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. Another one of your militarist heroes." Marescu could set in abeyance the worst blues for a good fight about the Services. "Fascist lackey."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Paul grinned, refused the bait. "Not me, Ion. I know you too well."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No fight? Marescu faded off into his internal reality. Damn her eyes! How could she have done it? And with that....hat <em class="calibre9">blackamoor!</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. Ion? Is something wrong?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">More than normal? Ion Marescu was Hel Station's resident crank and grouch, its leading Mr. Blues and Vinegar. Most people shunned him unless work forced contact. He had one real friend, astrophysicist Paul Neidermeyer, a lady love named Melanie Bounds, and managed a certain strained formality with his boss, Kathe the Eagle. Everybody else was fair game for his vituperation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Von Drachau? He's Line, isn't he? Why would they tell a Line officer about this place? They planning on locking him up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ion. Man, what's wrong? You look bad. Why don't we take you down and get you a shower and a clean jumper?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One of the curiosities of Ion Marescu was that he appeared to change personalities with his clothing. When he wore standard Navy work clothing he was almost tolerable. When he donned his Archaicist costume he became arrogant, argumentative, viper-tongued, and abnormally misty, as if half the time half of him truly did exist in eighteenth-century England.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu paused before a mirror inset in the passage wall, ignoring the people trying to pass. "I do look a little ragged, don't I?" he muttered. He adjusted his wig, straightened the ruffles at his throat, thought, I wish this <em class="calibre9">were</em> Georgian England. I could call the bastard out. Settle this crap with steel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But you would not have done that with a Negro, would you? You'd have gotten some friends together and played dangle the darky from a tree limb. If you could have stood the shame of confessing to your friends.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu was not one of Hel Station's more polished Archaicists. The others had brought their costumes and research materials with them. He had taken up the hobby only after the isolation had begun to grind him down. He had sewn his own costume, with Melanie's help.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was more devoted than most Station Archaicists. He prided himself on that, as he prided himself on his contrariness, his crotchets, and the perfection of his work with the test programs. He liked to think that he was the best at whatever he did—including at making himself obnoxious. He seldom noticed the compensatory sloppiness he expressed in his personal habits and hobby.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had not researched his period thoroughly. He winged most of it. His hobby-era values and beliefs were based on hearsay.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were those who thought the dichotomy between a perfectionist work life and slovenly play life, taken far too seriously, was indicative of deep disturbance. Admiral Adler disagreed. She felt Marescu was all showoff.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu started walking. He had forgotten Paul. Neidermeyer seized his arm again. "Ion, if I can't help, who can? We've been friends for years."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's not something anybody can help with, Paul. It's Melanie. I got off shift early. The quark tube was acting up. The strange positives and bottom negs were coming off almost a milli-degree out of track. They couldn't inject them into their orbital shells... They shut down. She had Mitchell with her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer murmured an insincere, "I'm sorry." He thought, so what? and wondered if Marescu was not getting a little too far out of touch. Maybe the staff psychologists should hear about this.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A man who started confusing the mores of now with those of his hobby period was more than a little unstable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ion always had been neurotic. Now he seemed to have become marginally psychotic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How could she do it, Paul?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Calm down. You're shaking. Follow me, my son. What you need is a little firewater to settle the old nerves. Eh! None of that, now. Doctor's orders. Drink up, then tell me about it and we'll scope something out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. A drink. Okay." Marescu decided to get blotted. "Tell me about this von Dago."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Von Drachau. Rhymes with Cracow, like in Poland."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Poland? Where the hell is Poland?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where they raise the Chinese pigs." Neidermeyer grinned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu stopped walking. His thin little face puckered into a baffled squint. Seconds passed before the intuition that made him one of Confederation's better test programers clicked. "The non sequitur game? We haven't played in ages, have we? Poland. Chinese pigs. Poland China hogs... Isn't that the strain they were talking about on that ag show the other day? They want to breed back to something extinct?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know what they smell like."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay, Paul. I'm all right now. Ease up. That was a weak one, anyway. Just give me the story on your mercenary hero."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer refused the challenge. "I don't know much. It's just something I overheard at Security. They were chasing their tails getting ready. Guess it took them by surprise. We're here. What're you drinking?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They stepped off the escalator into soft luminescence just bright enough to prevent stumbling over furniture.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The lounge had been designed to give an impression of being open to Hel's surface. Its protective dome was undetectable. The lighting was too diffuse to glare off the glassteel. The dome itself pimpled from the flank of a mountain, overlooking dark peaks and cruel gorges. The Milky Way burned above, a billion-jeweled expanse of glory.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ever notice how it seems colder up here?" Marescu asked, for at least the hundredth time in their acquaintance. He stared out at the poorly illuminated skin of the dead world. The inconstant Cepheid sun hung behind a peak, limning it with a trace of gold. In its off moments that sun was little more noticeable than the brighter neighboring stars. "You pick it, Paul. I'm not particular today. But build it big."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer collected brandy and glasses from behind the bar. "Francis must have gone down for the Security festival," he said. A Marine with an unpronounceable Old Earther name, dubbed Francis Bacon by the research staff, usually tended bar. Security had very little to do most of the time, so filled time by trying to make the Station more endurable for everyone.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">People came to Hel on a one-way ticket. Only the Director of Research and Chief of Security ever ventured off world. For security reasons there was no instel comm system available. Isolation was absolute.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Brandy?" Marescu asked, startled. Paul was a whisky man.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Old Earth's best, Ion. Almost makes being here worthwhile."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu downed half a snifter at a gulp. "They ought to turn us loose now, Paul. We built their damned bombs. All we're doing now is piddling around with make-work."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They won't, though. Security. Won't be any leaks as long as they keep us here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Paul, how could she?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You knew she was... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"When I got involved? I know. I keep telling myself. But that doesn't make it hurt any less, Paul."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What can I tell you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu stared into his empty snifter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ion... Maybe you ought to ease up on the Archaicist thing. Try to get your perspective back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The modern perspective sucks, Paul. You know that? There's no humanity in it. You probably laugh at me because of this outfit. It's a symbol, Paul. It's a symbol of times when people did have real feelings. When they cared."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've got feelings, Ion. I care about you. You're my friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't. Not really. You're just here because having feelings bothers you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer glared. There were times when being Ion's friend was work. Marescu refused to apologize. Paul took his brandy to the side of the dome. He stared at the indistinct hide of Hel. The critical question glared back from the serpent eyes of his own weak reflection.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Should Marescu be reported? Was he that far gone?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nobody wanted to turn in a friend. The Psych people could lock him up forever. Their zoo of Hel-born mental mutations was a blue-chip growth industry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The project was too delicate to risk its compromise by the unbalanced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But the production team needed Ion. Nobody had his sure, delicate touch with the test systems. Best let it ride and hope he would come around. This thing with Melanie could be a positive if it jarred him back to reality.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Paul turned. He looked at a thin, short, weary little man who had a thousand years etched into his face and a million agonies flaring from his narrow little black eyes. Right decision? Those eyes were lamps of torment backfired by incipient madness.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Something rattled the foundations of the universe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The snowy landscape glowed a deep, bloody red. The glow faded quickly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu turned an ashen color. He stumbled to the dome face, caressed it with shaking fingers. "Paul... That was damned close. They could have destabilized one of the test cores. We'd have been blown into the next universe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Fear had drained Neidermeyer's face too. He mumbled, "But nothing happened."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm complaining anyway. They ought to have better sense." Feeling the breath of the angel on his neck had snapped his streak of self-pity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stared into the darkness outside. A pale new light had begun etching the shadows more deeply. One brilliant point of light slid across the screen of fixed stars, growing more intense.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're coming in fast."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hel's surface was screaming under a storm of violet-white light when the dome polarized. The glass continued to respond to the light beating against it, its inner surface crawling with an iridescence like that of oil on water.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Doctor Neidermeyer? Mister Marescu? Excuse me a moment."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They turned. Marine Major Gottfried Feuchtmayer stood at the escalator's head. He was Deputy Chief of Security, and a man who appeared to have just stepped out of a recruiting commerical. He was the quintessential Marine.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bet he wakes up looking like that," Marescu muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it, Major?" Neidermeyer asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We need your assistance in the arsenal. We need two devices for shipboard installation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu's stomach went fluttery. The butterflies donned Alpine boots and started dancing. "Major... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Briefing in Final Process in fifteen minutes, gentlemen. Thank you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer nodded. The Major descended the escalator.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So," Marescu snapped. "They'll never use it, eh? You're a fool, Paul."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they won't. You don't know... Maybe it's a field test of some kind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't lie to yourself. No more than you already are. The damned bomb doesn't need testing. I already tested it. They're going to blow up a sun, Paul!" Ion's mouth worked faster and faster. His voice rose toward a squeak. "Not some star, Paul. A sun. Somebody's sun. The goddamned murdering fascists are going to wipe out a whole solar system."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Calm down, Ion."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Calm down? I can't. I won't! How many lives, Paul? How many lives are going to be blasted away by those firecrackers we've given them? They've made bloody fools of us, haven't they? They suckered us. Smug little purblind fools that we are, we made ourselves believe that it would never go that far. But we were lying to ourselves. We knew. They always use the weapon, no matter how horrible it is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Paul did not respond. Marescu was reacting without all the facts. And saying things everyone else thought but did not say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For the research staff, service at Hel Station had been a deal with the devil. Each scientist had traded physical freedom and talent for unlimited funding and support for a pet line of research. The Station was ultra-secret, but the knowledge it produced was reshaping modern science. The place seethed with new discoveries.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">All Navy had asked for its money was a weapon capable of making a sun go nova.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Navy had its weapon now. The scientists had scrounged around and found a few Hawking Holes left over from the Big Bang, had pulled a few mega-trillion quarks out of a linear accelerator which circumscribed Hel itself, had sorted them, had stacked them in orbital shells around the mini-singularities, and had installed these "cores" in a delivery system. The carrier missile would perish in the fires of a star, but the core itself would sink to the star's heart before the quark shells collapsed, mixing positives and negatives in a tremendous energy yield which would ignite a swift and savage helium fusion process.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Navy had its weapon. And now, apparently, a target for it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What have you done, Paul?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Ion. God help me if you're right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The passageways were a-crawl with Marines, Marescu swore. "I didn't realize there were so many of the bastards. They been breeding on us? Where's everybody else?" The usual back and forth of technical and scientific staffs had ceased. Civilians were scarce.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At Final Process they were told to report to the arsenal instead.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They found three civilians waiting outside the scarlet door. The Director, though, was an R &amp; D admiral in civilian disguise.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This's a farce," Marescu growled at her. "Two hundred comic opera soldiers... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Can it, Ion," Paul whispered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Director did not bat an eye. "They're watching you, Ion. They don't like your mouth."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu was startled. Ordinarily, even the Eagle did not bite back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's going on, Kathe?" Neidermeyer asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu grinned. Kathe Adler. Kathe the Eagle. It was one of those nasty little jokes that drift around behind an unpopular superior's back. Admiral Adler had a thin wedge of a face, an all-time beak of a nose, and a receding hairline. Never had a birthname fit its bearer so well.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're taking delivery on the product, Paul. I want you to work with their science officers. Ion, you'll prepare a test program for their shipboard computers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're going to use it, aren't they?" Marescu demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I hope not. We all hope not, Ion."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shit. I believe that like I believe in the Tooth Fairy." He glanced at Paul. Neidermeyer was trying to believe. He was like all the science staff. Keeping himself fed on lies.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ship's down, Major," a Marine Lieutenant announced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very well," Feuchtmayer replied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'd better get lined out," the Director said. "Paul, pick whomever you want to help. Ion, you'll have to visit the ship to see what you'll be working with. I want your preliminary brief as soon as you can write it. Josip, get with their Weapons officers and draw up the preparatory specs for carrying mounts and launch systems. Have the people in the shops drop everything else."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Josip asked, "We have to build it all here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"From scratch. Orders."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Gentlemen, they're in a hurry. I suggest you get started."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They brought the whole ship down?" Paul asked. Ships seldom made planetary landings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. They don't want to waste time working from orbit. That would take an extra month."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But... " That was dangerous business. The ship's crew would stay crazy-busy balancing her gravity fields with the planet's. If they made one mistake the vessel would be torn apart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It shouldn't take more than twelve days this way," Admiral Adler speculated. "Assuming we hit no snags. Let's go." She pushed through the red door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The completed weapons had a sharkish, deadly look, looking nothing like bombs. The four devices were spaced around the arsenal floor. Each was a lean needle of black a hundred meters long and ten in diameter. They were longer than the shuttle craft intended to lift them to orbit. Antennae and the snouts of nasty defensive weapons sprouted from their dark skins like scrub brush from an old, burned slope.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were fully automated little warships. The essentials of the nova bomb occupied space that would have been given over to crew in manned vessels. They were fast and shielded heavily enough to punch through a powerful defense.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The weapon remained largely theoretical. But the men who had created it were confident it would function.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidemeyer whispered to Marescu as they donned working suits, trying to convince his friend, and himself, that they were just gearing up for a field test. "I'm sure the money people just want to see if they're getting any return on their investment," he insisted. "You can't blame them for wanting to try their new toy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Our hero von Drachau is going to take potshots at a couple of insignificant stars. Right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're a fool, Paul."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A band of strangers entered the arsenal. They stared at the four dark needles, clearly awed and a little frightened.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's von Drachau on the right," Paul whispered. "I recognize him from the holo. Only he looks a lot older."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Looks a little grey around the gills, I'd say."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau did look depressed. He spoke with the Major and Kathe Adler. Kathe led his party around one of the missiles. Von Drachau became more impressed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was something about the big, terrible ones that excited a resonance in the soul. It was almost a siren call. Marescu felt it himself each time he touched one of the monsters. He was ashamed of himself when he did.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Little boys play with firecrackers, and big boys play with bombs," he muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ease up. Kathe meant it when she said they're watching you. Feuchtmayer isn't one of your big fans, Ion."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll stay out of his way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The days whipped past. Technicians swarmed over the pair of weapons von Drachau selected. Marescu tested systems and supervised the installation of special shipping aids. Josip brought the missiles' computation systems into communion with the battle computers aboard von Drachau's ship. Technicians designed and installed adapters and links that would fit the securing rings and launch vanes going onto the belly of the warship.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer prepared a manual for the science officers responsible for arming the sunkiller and monitoring its gluon pulse in passage, watching for that tiny anomaly that might forecast the expansion of a quark shell into disaster.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu could not believe there was so much to do. His shifts were long and demanding. He felt a lot of sympathy for Paul, whose personal research project seemed threatened with death by inattention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Neidermeyer watched his friend more closely than he did the gluon pulse, hunting some telltale psychological anomaly. Marescu seemed almost too much in control, and had thrown himself into his work with a near-fanaticism that bespoke a very fragile stability fighting its last stand. Yet there were positive signs. Ion had shed the filthy Archaicist outfit. He had begun devoting more time to his personal appearance...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then it was over.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kathe Adler joined them in the lounge. "Let the firewater flow," she proclaimed. "It's time to say the hell with it and turn loose of the brass ring for a while."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu gave her an odd look.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The celebration became a premature New Year's bash.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The pressure was off. The antagonisms went on the shelf for the day. Guilts got tucked away. Scientists and technicians made shows of comradeship with the Marines. A handful of von Drachau's officers joined in, drinking lightly, listening to the jokes but seldom laughing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"For them it's just begun," Ion murmured. He glanced around. No one had heard him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau was a focus of brooding gloom. He seemed to have sunk two-thirds into another universe. Ion watched him glare at Paul as if Neidermeyer were some small, venomous insect when Paul tried to strike up a conversation about the raid in the Hell Stars. Von Drachau disappeared only minutes later.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't think you made an impression, my friend," Ion said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kathe agreed. "He's sensitive about it, Paul. He's a strange one. You should have heard the row he and Ion had."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marescu met Paul's gaze. "It wasn't any big thing. I came on a little too strong, that's all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What was it?" Neidermeyer asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"About the morality of using the weapon," Kathe said. "Von Drachau is damned near a pacifist. Ion was pretty shook when he found out the man could adapt his convictions enough to let him use the weapon."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ion's problem is that he's an absolutist. He's got to have everything black or white. And he's getting worse. Is there any way we can get him into therapy without having him committed?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think there's a reason to worry? His profiles keep coming up off-center, but they never show any danger."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes. Lately... He's got a creepy feeling to him. Except for that argument with von Drachau, he's swung too far away from what he was. I'm nervous about the backswing. Like I can hear the timer clicking. He might break loose going the other way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had begun talking about Marescu as if he were not around for the very good reason that he was not, though neither of them had consciously marked his departure.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kathe Adler had called von Drachau a crypto-pacifist, and Marescu had seen red. Literally. The dome and people went raggedly, liquid, and red. Then it was all clear. All perfectly clear. He had to go see Melanie and explain.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was walking down a passageway. Time seemed to have passed. He had the distinct feeling that his head was on sideways. That mercenary von Drachau... The man had kicked the foundations out from under him. A flexible morality? How could there be such a thing? A thing was either right, or it wasn't. The nova bomb was the most evil thing yet conceived by the military mind. And he had helped midwife that evil into this universe. He had allowed himself to be seduced... He had whored himself...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There had to be a way to show them what they were doing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shook his head violently. Things were foggy. A band seemed to be tightening around his temples. There was something wrong. He could not force his thoughts into a straight line.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For an instant he considered finding a Psych officer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau seemed to laugh at him again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You fascist bastard!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Christ! Some Torquemada had taken another turn on the strap. His skull was creaking with the pressure.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where am I?" he blurted. His feet had been moving without conscious direction. He tried to concentrate on his surroundings. "What am I doing here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wanted to turn and go back. His feet kept going in the direction he was headed. His hand pushed on Melanie's door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was an alien, a passenger aboard a body under another's control. He was a slightly panicky observer of actions being carried out by another creature.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The little gasps and grunts lashed that devil, punishing it like a wizard's curse. He stared at the eight-limbed, twenty-toed beast. It heaved and lunged. Its four blind eyes rolled swiftly. Its three uncontrolled mouths made wet, hungry sounds.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Ion of him silently screamed and turned inward, refusing to see any more. A darkness closed round it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A clumsy puppeteer jerked him around, dragged him out the door and down the passageway with jerky, meandering, drunken steps. When next the Ion rider surfaced it found its steed in the arsenal, clad in its Georgian, bent over the computer board in the heavily shielded test control kiosk. The clock claimed that hours had vanished from his life. His hands and fingers were flying, a pair of pale white dancing spiders.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were doing something dreadful. He did not know what, and they would not stop when he commanded them. He watched them like a baffled child watching slow death.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An image here, an image there, surged into his mind, playing back fragments of the missing hours. Ion Marescu crawled over a long black needle. Ion Marescu crouched beneath the needle, connecting the heavy cables that ran to the test station. Ion Marescu squeezed through the cramped interior of the black ship, removing safety chips...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ion?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Paul's voice barely penetrated the thick stressglass of the booth's walls. He was screaming. Ion realized the yelling had been going on for a while. He glanced at Paul puzzledly, barely recognizing him. He did not stop working. This was the most important test he had ever run. For the first time in his life he was doing something of real worth. He had found himself a holy mission.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What was it? He shook his head, tried to clear the mists. They would not go.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His hands danced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kathe Adler joined Paul. They pounded the unbreakable glass with their fists. Then the woman fled. Paul grabbed a fire axe and swung away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When Ion next glanced up, the vast arsenal floor was acrawl with Marines. Major Feuchtmayer had his pale face pressed against the glass directly in front of him. His lips writhed obscenely. He was screaming something. Ion had no time to listen. He had to hurry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What the hell was going on out there? the observer part of him wondered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He finished programing the test sequences.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Each weapon had to be run through a simulated plunge into Hel's own sun. Ion usually performed the test series on a system-by-system basis, with the drive never operational and the safety chips preventing the weapon from going active. "How do we know the drive will work?" Marescu muttered. "We just take their word for it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Paul and the Marines stopped trying to break the glass with hand tools. Ion saw the Major laying a sticky grey rope of something round the door frame.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Plastic explosives? My God! What are those madmen trying to do?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His right hand depressed the big black palm switch that opened the arsenal's huge exit doors. It was through those very doors that that hired assassin von Drachau had moved his two missiles to his ship.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">People flung in all directions as the arsenal air burst into Hel's eternal night. Baffled, Marescu watched their broken doll figures tumble and bloat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His left hand danced, initiating the test sequences. The arsenal drowned in intense light. The stressglass of the booth polarized, but could not block it all. The sabotaged holding blocks fell away from the number four weapon. It dragged itself forward, off its dolly. It flung off clouds of sparks and gouged its spoor deep into the concrete floor.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute," Ion said. "Wait a minute. There's something wrong. It's not supposed to do that. Paul? Where did you go, Paul?" Paud did not answer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The black needle, its tail a stinger of white-hot light, lanced into the night, dwindled. The little star of it drifted to one side and downward as its homing systems turned its nose toward the target.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's happening?" Marescu asked plaintively. "Paul?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What went wrong?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The eye of the black needle fixed itself on Hel's sun. It accelerated at 100 <em class="calibre9">g.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">And in the booth, where the atmospheric pressure had begun to fall, Ion Marescu realized the enormity of what he had done. With a shaking hand he took a suggestion form from a drawer and began composing a recommendation that, in future, all test programs be cross-programed in such a way that the activation of any one would automatically lock out the others.</div>
  

  <div class="paragraph">"We have influence, Commander," Lieutenant Callaway reported.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take hyper," von Drachau replied. "And destroy that Hel astrogational cassette as soon as you have her in the hyper arc. For the record, gentlemen, we've never heard of this place. We don't know anything about it and we've never been here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stared into a viewscreen, slumped, wondering what he was, what he was doing, and whether or not he had been told the whole truth. The screen went kaleidoscopic at the instant of hyper-take, then blanked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Seventeen minutes and twenty-one seconds later the sun of the world he had just fled felt the first touch of a black needle. The little manmade gamete fertilized the great hydrogen ovum. In a few hours the nova chain would begin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There would be no survivors. Security allowed no ships to remain on Hel. The Station personnel could do nothing but await their fate.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And nowhere else did there exist one scrap of information on the magnificent, deadly weapon created at Hel Station. That, too, had been a Security-decreed precaution.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36354460" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Nine: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse drove down to the same departure station that had witnessed the Sangaree failsafer's suicide. A half dozen bewildered former landsmen were there already. He and benRabi were last to arrive. All but one of the others were women.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They haven't shown yet, Ellen?" Mouse asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Did you hear anything? You know what it's about?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not really."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi tuned them out. He walked through those last few minutes before Kindervoort's men had come to disarm Mouse and he had walked into the failsafer's line of fire. He went to the spot where he had been standing, turned slowly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl was here. Mouse was there. Bunch of people were there... They brought Marya's intensive care unit down that way, before Jarl showed, and took her right into the service ship."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He walked through it three times. He could not recall anything new. He had been distracted at the time. He had believed that Mouse was shanghaiing him, and had not wanted to leave. Then Jarl had distracted him...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Mouse. Walk through this with me. Maybe you can think of something."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A scooter rolled into the bay. A pair of unfamiliar Starfishers dismounted. "You the citizenship class?" the woman asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hello there," Mouse said, like a man who had just crossed a ridgeline and spied all seven cities of Cibola.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman stepped back, her eyes widening.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Must be Storm," the man said. "My wife, Mister Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well... You win some, lose some. You don't know till you try."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I suppose not. All right. Let's check the roll, then get started. Looks like we're good. We've got the right number of heads. All right. What we're going to do is leave the ship through the personnel lock and line over to one of the work bays on one of the mooring stays. There's zero gravity in the work area so you don't have to worry about falling. Follow me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He went to a hatchway, opened it, stepped through. The future Seiner citizens followed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse tried hanging back, to get nearer to the woman.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi gouged his ribs. "Come on. Let her alone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, she's driving me crazy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's prime. Yes. And married, and we don't need any more enemies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. It isn't sex. I mean, she's fine. Like you say, prime stuff. What I'm saying, though, is this is our shot at somebody from outside."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What're you talking about?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's not from <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How the hell do you know that?" BenRabi ducked through the third of the lock doors. "You've maybe been around the world here, but I don't think you've gotten to them all. Not yet. We haven't run into a hundredth of <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But the ones we have all came from the same mold. Oh, Christ!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi slithered out of the ship. He stood on her skin, offering Mouse a hand. In both directions, as far as he could see, were tubes, cubes, spars, bars... Hectare on hectare of abused metal. Overhead, the laser-polished stone of the asteroid arched in an almost indiscernible bow. <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> outermost extremities cleared it by a scant hundred meters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those hundred meters had Mouse petrified.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse was scared to death of falling. The phobia usually manifested itself during a liftoff or landing, when up and down had a more definite meaning.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You all right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm was shaking. Sweat beaded his face. He shoved a hand out the hatch, twice, like a drowning man clawing for a lifeline.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The others were hand-over-handing it along a cable spanning the gap between ship and asteroid.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Mouse. It won't be that bad." How the hell had he gotten through all the e.v.a. exercises and small boat drills they had had to endure in Academy?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's phobia perpetually astonished benRabi. Nothing else fazed the man. Whining bullets and crackling lasers simply created the background noises of his work...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His work!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Assassin's mind, Mouse. Go into assassin's mind." The state approximated a meditational trance, except that while he was in it Mouse was one of the most deadly men who ever lived.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was he too much out of practice?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's shaking slowly subsided. His eyes became glassy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right," benRabi said. "Come on. Slow. Take the handholds and work your way over to the line. That's good. Good. Now across to the balcony."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe spoke softly, without inflection. In this state Mouse had to be handled gently. Anything could set him off. Anyone not programed in as Friendly could get broken up pretty bad.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman instructor overtook benRabi on the line. "What's wrong with your friend?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's an acrophobe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A Navy man?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. Be real careful for a few minutes. Keep the group away. He's not very stable right now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He got Mouse onto the balcony, with his back to the vast mass of the ship, and talked him down. In five minutes Storm was asking, "You ever meet anyone on <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> who wasn't blond with blue eyes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Some. Not many."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Anybody with black blood?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I rest my case." Mouse surveyed the harvestship. "Damn, she took a beating."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Huh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Different perspective, Moyshe. It's not up and down from here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi scanned the battered ship. "Mouse, I think we've been set up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought it was a little weird, coming out the way we did. I was going to ask the lady why they didn't have something better." He pointed with his chin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A half kilometer away a telescoping tubeway connected the ship with the rock face. BenRabi soon indicated a half dozen more connections. Each was large enough to use to drive heavy equipment onto and off the harvest-ship.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think they're just working on you and me? Or the whole group?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fly easy," benRabi suggested.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's my ass in a sling, Moyshe. I'll be your basic model of decorum."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are these two part of a plan?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take it for granted. The question is, was it supposed to be obvious? Or are they just clumsy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"To quote a certain Admiral, who used to tell us what to do, ‘Just lay back in the weeds and let them show their hand.' He was good at mixing metaphors."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How's the writing going, Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They turned to follow the Seiner couple, who were shooing the others into a tunnel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I haven't written a page in months. I don't know why."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Time?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's part of it. But I always found time before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Atop all his other hobbies, benRabi dabbled at writing short fiction. Traveling to Carson's from Luna Command, an eon ago, he had looked forward to the Starfisher mission as a vacation operation during which he could get a lot of work done. He had expected to stay a maximum of six weeks. The Admiral had promised... A year had passed, and he had completed one dreary story, the manuscript of which he had not seen in months.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once they departed the central hollow of the asteroid they entered local artificial gravity. There was little visible difference between ship and shore.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, boy!" Mouse said. "More brand new same old thing. This is going to get boring in a few years, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry you decided to stay?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse eyed him momentarily. "No." His expression became a little strange, but benRabi paid it no attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look, Mouse. Kids. I haven't seen any kids since we left Luna Command."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hooray."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, man. Look at that. Must be some kind of class tour."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Twenty little girls around eight years old were giggling along behind an old man. The old man was explaining something in a crackling voice. Several of the girls were aping him behind his back. Some of the others were making faces at the mockers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Call me back in ten years," Mouse said. "I got no use for them till they get ripe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You have got to be the sourest... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It some kind of crime not to like kids? Speaking of which, I never saw you get along with any but Jupp's boy and that Greta. And she was sixteen going on twenty-six."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jupp von Drachau had been their classmate in Academy. He was now High Command's special errand boy. He had helped with their operation on The Broken Wings. Later, it had been his assignment to provide the firepower when it had come time to seize Payne's Fleet. They had thought. His premature approach and detection had left them stranded for the full year they had contracted to work for the Seiners.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Horst-Johann. I didn't see him last time we were in Luna Command. That's two years ago now. Damn, time flies. Bet he's grown half a meter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their male guide said, "People, we'll lunch in one of the worker's commons before we show you a typical creche. Don't be shy. Visit. People here are as curious about you as you are about them. We'd appreciate it if you'd stay close, though. If one of you gets lost, we'll both have trouble explaining."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Great," Mouse said. "Still more brand new same old thing. Doesn't anybody ever eat anywhere but in these goddamned cafeterias? I'd sell my soul for a go at a decent kitchen on my own."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You cook?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm a man of myriad talents, Moyshe. Think that's what I'll do when we hit The Broken Wings. Figure out how to make myself a home-cooked meal. And devour it in private. Not out in the middle of a goddamned football field with five thousand other people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've got one classic case of the crankies this morning, my friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't get any last night. Besides, I'm not patient with crap, and this whole field trip is main course horseshit without the hollandaise."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The commons was as predictable as Mouse feared. So was the food. The conversation did not sparkle either, till Mouse took the offensive. "Grace, what's the point of this exercise?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand your question, Mister Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe grinned behind his hand. The woman was sensitive to that overpowering Mouse charm. She had become as decorous as a schoolteacher by way of compensation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This bullshit exercise. You dragged us away from work we don't have time to get done right anyway. You run us out on a goddamned wire, then walk us all to hell and gone when we could have done the whole thing on a bus. You tell us we're going to see how Seiners live when they're not in the fleet, but you just show us the same old stuff. And since you've only kidnapped us for today, you're not really serious about showing us anything. I mean, an idiot would realize that it would take weeks just to skim the surface of a civilization like yours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman's dusky face darkened with embarrassment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I mean, here we sit, eight former landsmen, all with that much figured out, and all of us on our best behavior figuring it's some kind of test or someone wants us off <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> for a while... Whichever, it's dumb. You're wasting our time and yours."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mister Storm... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't mind him," Moyshe interjected. "It's old age creeping up on him. He's not as tolerant of games-playing as he used to be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned and winked. BenRabi grinned back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their guides surveyed the other landsmen. They said nothing, but aggravated agreement marked each of their faces.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's no point in going ahead, then," the male guide said. "Your response is data enough. Finish your meals. I'll be right back." He disappeared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What <em class="calibre9">is</em> the point?" benRabi asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Grace shrugged. "I just work here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Psychologist?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was startled. "How did you know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can smell them. You really married to him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No." She laughed weakly. "He's my brother."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ooh." Mouse said it softly. Only Moyshe heard.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You swallow something radioactive, Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You just started glowing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The lady psychologist was not immune. Mouse wangled a date before her brother returned. BenRabi did not doubt that Mouse would make the date an interesting experience.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He could not fathom Mouse's method. Even knowing they were being manipulated, knowing Mouse's reputation, women walked right in. Indeed, Mouse's reputation seemed to make him more interesting.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their guide returned. He deposited his half-finished tray on the conveyor to the sculleries. He waited impatiently while his flock followed suit. He scowled at Mouse, who had opened up with the big guns and had Grace laughing like a teenager at stories woollier than the mammoths they antedated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Style," benRabi told himself. "That's what he's got."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me?" one of the ladies asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Talking to myself, Ellen. It's the only way to hold an intelligent conversation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think they'll be mad at us because of this?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. More likely at each other. Like Mouse said, it was a dumb idea, no matter what the point was."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Unless it's a cover."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's a possibility."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The man had a bus waiting outside the cafeteria. In ten minutes it reached the departure bay they had left so laboriously earlier. By then Mouse was holding Grace's hand. He had her purring and almost unable to wait till he got off work.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Storm," her brother snapped. "Back to your assigned department. The rest of you, go back to your jobs. Grace, for god's sake... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, shut up, Burt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's got a name," one of the ladies crowed. Mouse's mutinous attitude was catching. The Seiners had tried to put something over on the landsmen and they were responding with a mocking camaraderie.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, Mouse," Moyshe grumbled. "Let's don't start anything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right. At eight, Grace? Bye." Storm bounced onto the scooter he had commandeered for the ride to the departure station. Moyshe took the seat behind him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"New worlds to conquer, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's one way of looking at it, Moyshe. This old one is starting to wear. They must have some kind of open contract on me. Some kind of bounty for the girl who cons me into the ‘I dos.' They won't take no for an answer. Not and stay friends. Weird people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell are you doing here?" Kindervoort demanded when they strolled into the coliseum, where he was overseeing some especially poor marksmen.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Surprise," Mouse crowed. "The game was called on account of rain."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's he talking about, Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was some kind of dumb exercise. I'm sure you know what it was all about."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I told him it was stupid."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Ship's Commander. He's up to something with you two. I don't know what."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Remind him that one of the reasons I crossed over was because people wouldn't play games with me here. I'd have a job I knew what it was. I'd have a place in the scheme. Tell him that if the crap keeps up, I hike my ass back to Contact and chain me to a couch. He can put his auction project where the sun don't shine. It's a stupid operation too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Calm down, Moyshe. Just go back to your job."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When Kindervoort turned away, Mouse said, "Good to see you stand up on your hind legs, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It takes me awhile to get fired up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like the man said, let's go to work. We've got a long way to go with these clowns."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The next morning, whispering with motionless lips as they hurried along a crowded passageway, Mouse said, "They used the time to fix us up with a new set of bugs, Moyshe. Very good stuff. Better than anything Kindervoort stocks. The kind that hook into a stress analyzer. They're putting the big eye on us, Moyshe. From now on you'd better play safe, no matter where you are or who you're with."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What would they be looking for? We don't have anything to hide."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who knows? But don't forget that they're looking."</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36355066" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Ten: 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi was trying to clip a couple of stubborn, noxious-looking hairs out of his right ear. Amy called, "Ready yet, honey?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Half a minute." He had butterflies. He did not want to go. The stalls and arguments had run out, though. He had to meet Amy's family. Such as it was.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was about to be exhibited to her mother. A prime trophy, he thought. Former landsmen turned Seiner, on his way up. A prize for any single girl.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had been getting that feeling from Amy. The new was wearing off. The magic was fading. He was becoming an object of value instead of one of emotion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was the problem his or hers? Was he reading her wrong? He always misinterpreted women.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, will you come on?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stepped out of the bathroom. "How do I look?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Perfect. Come on. We'll be late for the shuttle."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I want to make a good impression."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stop worrying. Mom would be happy with a warthog, so long as I was married."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks a lot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A flash of the old Amy returned. "Any time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They rode a scooter out one of the connecting tubes, into the halls of the asteroid. Amy slowed to pass a series of doors with temporary plaques hung on them, reading names Moyshe found meaningless. "We're here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The plaque said stafinglas. Amy parked the scooter among a small herd nursing charger teats.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that mean? Stafinglas?" Moyshe asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I think it's made up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's where your mother lives?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy nodded. "We've got to hurry. They'll start pumping the air out of the lock in a couple minutes. They won't let us board after they start."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Could he stall that long? He decided that would be a petty trick. Much as intuition warned him that the trip was a waste, it was important to Amy. The thing to do was grit his teeth and ride it out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The shuttle was a small, boxy vessel useful for nothing but hauling passengers. The seats were full when Moyshe and Amy boarded. Dozens of people stood in the aisles. BenRabi recognized a few as <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> crewfolk.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lot of relatives of <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> people in this Stafinglas, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. The old harvestships are like family enterprises. Three or four generations have served in the same ship. It gets to be a tradition. Almost nobody ships outside their own fleet. They say that's why we're getting into this nationalistic competitiveness between fleets. There's talk about having a computer assign new crews by lot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe smiled. "Bet that's a popular idea."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like the black plague."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His feet hurt and his back ached before the shuttle reached its destination. It was a six-hour passage. He spent every minute standing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Stafinglas was exactly what Moyshe expected. An asteroid with kilometer upon kilometer of broad tunnels which served as residential streets. "I'm home," he told Amy. "It's just like Luna Command."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She gave him a funny look. "Really?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"On a smaller scale." He wanted to tell her it was not a natural or comfortable way to live. Instead, he asked, "You ever been down on a planet?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just curious." He could not explain. She did not have the experience to understand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Anything else I should know about your mother? I want to make a good impression."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stop saying that," Amy snapped. "Stick to literary things. You can't miss. Duck an argument. She's contrary as hell. She'll start a fight just to find out how stubborn somebody is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He looked at her askance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We had some beauts when I was young. Nothing I did and nobody I knew was ever good enough. Talk libraries if you know anything about them. She's librarian for Stafinglas."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The more Amy talked about her mother the less he wanted to meet the woman. He had encountered dragons before. They rolled right over him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're here." Amy stopped at a door, reluctant to take the last step.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Biting her lower lip, Amy knocked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Four hours later they excused themselves to go out for lunch. Neither spoke till they had drawn their meal trays. As he settled at a table, Moyshe said, "Jesus, do I have a headache."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Headache? Not here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tension headache. Not migraine." It had been bad. Much worse than he had expected. The woman was a classic. He glanced at Amy. Want to know what a woman will be like in twenty-five years? Have a good, long look at her mother.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Moyshe. I... I can't even make excuses for her. There isn't any excuse for that kind of behavior."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uhm. Maybe I'd better get used to it. Maybe she was just saying what a lot of people think. Me and Mouse and the others may have to live with that the rest of our lives."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You should have fought back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Would that have changed anything? No. It would've kept her going that much longer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe was still numb. As an Old Earther he had been fighting prejudice since entering the Navy. He had thought he possessed a thick hide. But never had he encountered anyone as virulent as Amy's mother. Outworlders went through the forms of equality, keeping their prejudices subtle and silent. Amy's mother was open and vicious and adamantine about hers. Neither suasion nor force would alter her thinking in the least.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She had disowned Amy before it was over.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You want to try again?" Amy asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was startled. "What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She <em class="calibre9">is</em> my mother, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He reached across the table, took her hand for a second. "I know." She was doing her brave act to conceal her pain. "I know. I've got one too. And she isn't that much different."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They want the best for you. And they think they're the ones to decide what's best." Amy gulped several mouthfuls. "Mother never was good at expressing feelings positively. Maybe that's why I'm a little weird. I spent a lot of time with her while I was growing up. She never qualified for fleet duty. That was the big disappointment of her life. Till we gave her something else to feel sorry for herself about."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy almost never mentioned her father. All Moyshe ever learned was his name and the fact that he had been killed in an accident here in the nebula. Apparently, despite protestations to the contrary, Amy's mother had found the accident convenient.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'd better not go back, Moyshe," Amy decided. "Not today. Let's give her a chance to calm down and get used to the idea."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had to kill four hours before a shuttle became available. Moyshe thought Amy would use the time to visit old friends. She did not. She said all her real friends were aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> She became defensive. She did not want to face any more disapproval. The stay-at-home Seiners were, apparently, less cosmopolitan than the people of the harvestfleets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Going back, Amy suggested, "If you want, tomorrow we can sneak over and see those alien ships. The research center isn't that far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe perked up a little. "All right. That's a good idea. I've been looking forward to it. What do we do about our work assignments?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll take care of everything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy took sleeping pills as soon as they reached their cabin. Despite a long, long day, Moyshe was not in the mood for bed. He strolled down the passageway and awakened Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How'd the get-together go?" Mouse asked. And, without awaiting an answer, "That bad, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a whole different world, Mouse. I thought I knew how to handle prejudice... I never saw anything like it. Her mother was the worst, but there was plenty everywhere else we went, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. Grace took me for a little tour this morning."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You guys got out of bed long enough?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, you got to do something the other twenty-three hours of the day."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So tell me. And where's the board? I've been here three minutes and I still haven't seen a chess board."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry." Mouse grinned. BenRabi had accused him of being unable to relate with the human male unless a chess board was interposed. "Guess I'm preoccupied."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She show you anything interesting?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not sure. You can't break the habits of trade-craft. So you look and you listen. But you don't find anything that gives you a handle on these people."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where'd you go?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"To some kind of office complex first. Like a government and trade headquarters. We hunked around there for five hours. They had everything out in the open... You know, like no confidential files or anything, and nobody getting excited because you pick up a paper and read it. You take white. But there wasn't anything there. I mean, nothing anybody back home would give a damn about. I didn't see a damned thing worth remembering."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell kind of weird move is that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse smiled. "Some Seiner pulled that on me the other day."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And lost."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. But I was better than him. Hey. You know what they're doing? They're getting ready to go back to Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That isn't any secret."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. But they're so damned serious. I mean, Grace and I went to this one asteroid they were making into a dry-dock. After we left the other place. I got to talking to this engineer. Her husband is on the team that's adapting a shuttle to piggyback the Stars' End weapons to orbit."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi raised his attention from the board. "Curious. Everywhere you go... They're so damned sure of themselves, aren't they?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Awfully. Maybe we're too sure they can't do it. Maybe they have an angle." Mouse's attention had left the board too. He seemed to have a question he was afraid to ask. Moyshe felt the intensity of it, boiling there behind his friend's eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've got a hunch that they do. Through the starfish, somehow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse returned to the game. His unorthodox opening got him into trouble early. BenRabi had him on the ropes, but let him wriggle loose by making a too-eager move. It cost him a knight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You always did get too excited," Mouse observed. "How has your head been?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I had a headache today. Just tension, though. Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just asking." A move later, "What I meant was that disorientation stuff you had because of the Psych program. Any trouble?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not much. Not like it was, I have my moments. You know. Blanking out for a second, then coming back wondering where I am and who I am. They don't amount to anything. They don't last long enough for anybody to notice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good. I was scared when you were doing that Contact stuff. Thought you might get mixed up while you were in, and come back somebody else permanently."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You didn't, by chance, have anything to do with getting me transferred, did you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I would have if I'd thought I had the drag. For your own good. But I didn't." Mouse rose, indicated that Moyshe should follow him. He stepped into the passageway, tapping his ear.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't want them to know I know this. The orders came from up top. Way up top. I know this woman who works in Communications. She told me a couple things she thought I already knew. Naturally, I played along."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Naturally. If it's female, you'll go along with anything."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned. "One of these days I'll tell you about the Admiral sending me to pimp school. Whoring isn't the oldest profession. Pimping is. You'd be knocked on your ass if you saw what a really good pimp can do with women."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He sent you to school?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Hell, Moyshe, it's the oldest trick in the spy business. You teach a guy how to make a woman fall for him, then turn him loose on the women who work for the organization you want to penetrate."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought it worked the other way around. Women seducing men."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's done. It doesn't work as well. Men don't respond the same to emotional blackmail."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What did your friend have to say? We can't stay out here too long."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Buddy, we're headed for the top. Somebody upstairs has decided we're the medicine Seiner foreign relations needs. This auction project is a test. If we come through, they'll give us a shot at setting up our own secret service."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had had a few hints. He had formed a few suspicions. Still, he was not ready for the truth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A real fleetwide secret service. Inside and out. Intelligence and counter-intelligence. The works. For all the Starfishers. The way it sounds, they'll give us anything we want and turn us loose. They've got friends landside who try to keep them informed. The friends have fed them enough, the last couple of years, to get them worried about what's going on in Luna Command."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah. I begin to smell the rat. We've got connections. We could turn a few of our old buddies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've got it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How do you feel about it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was about to ask you, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"After you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. It would be a challenge. We'd be going head to head with the Old Man. It would be a hell of a match-up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi was not pleased. "I take it you're excited."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Damned right I am. Not meaning to brag, but if we'd gone back, I'd have had Beckhart's job eventually. He said so himself. And you'd have become my Chief of Operations. He thought we had what it takes, Moyshe. You see what I'm driving at?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think so." BenRabi was disappointed for a moment. There was not a shred of loyalty in Mouse. His attitude was wholly mercenary... What the hell am I crying about? he wondered. I started this side-changing stuff.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He cast Mouse a sharp glance. More and more, he suspected his partner had stayed here only because <em class="calibre9">he</em> had, not out of conviction. What did that mean when taken with this sudden enthusiasm for directing an organization targeted against their former employer? What had become of his obsession with destroying the Sangaree?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So what I think you should maybe be thinking about," Mouse said, "is how we could set it up. Who we should use, where we should keep our eyes open, like that. And structure, too. You're more of a theorist than I am."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Communications would be the big problem, Mouse." He tried not to take Mouse's chatter seriously. The obstacles to creating an effective Seiner secret service were insurmountable. "How do you run an S or K net without communications? See what I mean? We're out here and the targets are the hell and gone somewhere else. You and I were always where we could use a public comm if we had to. Or we could use the Navy nets. Say we got somebody into Luna Command. He finds out something we should know right now. What does he do? Run outside and yell real loud?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll figure it out, Moyshe. Don't worry about the details that way. Don't be so negative all the time. Instead of saying, ‘It's impossible,' say, ‘How can we do it?' Figure a way, then organize to fit it. Let's get back in there before they get too suspicious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They exchanged a couple of moves. Moyshe said, "I yield. I would've had you this time except for that one stupid move."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was a bad opening. I deserved to get stomped. Another game?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just one. Then I'd better turn in. Amy's sneaking me out for a look at their xeno-archaeological project tomorrow."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wish I could go. But Jarl will have fits enough about you."</div>
  

  <div class="paragraph">The main research station was awesome.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What they did," Amy explained, "was take over one of the drydock asteroids. So they could study the ships inside."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The planetoid was smaller than the one that had engulfed <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>, but still was vast. At least a hundred ships floated in its interior. Some were so alien their lines almost hurt the eye.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Around the inner face of the asteroid lay an office and laboratory level. It was roofed by a layer of glassteel. The researchers and their staffs could look up at the ships floating overhead. People in the bay could see what was going on in the offices and labs. The asteroid had been given spin along its longitudinal axis instead of using artificial gravity generators, which would have been in continuous imbalance by facing inward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe and Amy entered through a lock in the asteroid's end, and observed briefly from a lookout there. Moyshe was impressed. The line of ships marched on till it vanished in the distance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They bring them in this end," Amy said. "They look them over, study them, and the ones that aren't useful they move up the line." She indicated a remote vessel. Tugs were guiding it away. "The far end is industrialized. The ships the scientists don't want they break up for raw materials or refit for us to use. Let's see if we can find a scooter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An hour later Amy introduced him to a woman named Consuela el-Sanga. "Consuela is an old friend, Moyshe. Consuela, Moyshe might be able to give you an idea or two."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela el-Sanga was a small, dusky woman in her early fifties. She bore the stamp of the preoccupied researcher, of a person who had devoted a lifetime to her curiosity. Moyshe liked her immediately, and as quickly felt a kinship. She was a shy, diffident individual in matters outside her expertise.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you a xeno-archaeologist, Mister benRabi?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Amy's exaggerating. I'm not even a gifted amateur. My only claim is that I followed the Lunar digs close till a year ago. I had a friend on the project."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Darkness hit him. It had the impact of a physical blow. A woman's face floated before him. He had not seen that face in years. Alyce. Academy love. The girl who had worked at the Lunar digs...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe!" Amy sounded frightened. "What's the matter? Are you all right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He held up a hand, patted at the air. "Okay. Okay. I'm okay." He shook his head violently. "Just a delayed reaction to the spin here," he lied. "I've never been in centrifugal gravity."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Inside, panic. What the hell was this? It had not happened for months. He realized he was talking, and talking fast. "I was at the digs a year and a half ago. They'd just opened a new chamber, in almost perfect condition. They thought some of the machinery might still work."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy and Consuela watched him carefully. "You sure you're all right?" Amy asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure. Sure. Miss el-Sanga, what could I do to help?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I really don't know. We could walk you through one of the ships we think relates to the Lunar base, for a layman's opinion. We're sure there was a connection, but, because of politics, we can't work with the people there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a pity, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come along. We'll start with artifacts recovered from the ships. So you're married now, Amy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi caught an odd note in what could have been either statement or question. He gave the women a closer look. There was a slight tenseness between them, as if there had been more to their relationship than friendship and shared interests. He filed it in the back of his mind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Took me long enough, didn't it?" Amy tried to sound light. She failed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The moment of disorientation had turned something on inside Moyshe. His mind went to work agent-wise. The cameras rolled. The cross-reference computer clicked. His surroundings took on more depth, more meaning. They became brighter and more interesting. His movements became quicker and more assured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is what we laughingly call the museum," Consuela el-Sanga said, pausing before opening a door. "It's not, really. It's just a storage room. Whoever those people were, they didn't leave much behind. Mostly just trash. But that's all archaeologists ever have to work with. Broken points, potsherds, and whatever else the ancients threw out behind their huts."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe moved up and down rows of metal shelves. They contained hundreds of items, each tagged with a date, ship number, inventory number, and brief guess as to what the object might be. Some were referenced to other inventory numbers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Twice he paused, reexamined an item, said, "I saw something like this at the Lunar digs. I'd say there's a definite connection."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The second time, Consuela el-Sanga responded, "Not necessarily. Parallel function. Say a comb. Any creature with hair would invent a comb. Wouldn't you say? So the existence of a comb wouldn't prove anything but a common physical trait." And when Moyshe finished with the racks and shelves, she said, "Now into my office. I'll show you our two real treasures."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe and Amy followed her through another door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You haven't seen these either, Amy. We found them while you were out. They were both part of the same find."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela El-Sanga took two plastic cases from her desk. She handled them with loving care.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe accepted one, Amy the other. The item benRabi held was a piece of paper that had been torn into small fragments. A very few faded marks were visible.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is it a photograph?" Amy asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good guess," Consuela said. "We had a hell of a time with them." Moyshe traded with Amy. The second object <em class="calibre9">was</em> an extremely faded, flat, two-dimensional photo. It had been torn in two.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela continued, "First we pieced all the tears together. Then we did scans with low-intensity lasers and computer enhancements. We came up with these." The woman glowed with pride as she handed over reproductions of the items.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The photo, in color, was of a creature very similar to the Lunar dig reconstructions. BenRabi said as much. The other object appeared to be a hand-written letter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Any luck interpreting this?" Moyshe asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. We haven't even determined which direction it's supposed to be read."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You haven't found any technical manuals or anything?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not a speck. Just a few characters on nameplates, stuff like you'd find around instrumentation and doors on any ship. Any time there's more than three characters, they're arranged in matrices like these."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they had a holographic system for reading."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Doesn't go with a two-d photo. We don't think."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very interesting," Moyshe said, studying the picture again. "A Dear John letter? And the guy, or gal, gets mad and tears up the lover's letter and picture, but then can't bear to part with the pieces?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's one of our hypotheses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe scanned the letter. "Thirty-four different characters here. Some punctuation?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't try to figure it out in your head. Even the computers can't get a handle on it. Just think how hard it would be to break our language without a starting clue. Big letters, little letters, script, punctuation, spelling variations by dialect, different type faces, all the stylized lettering and special symbols we use for technical stuff... You see? We'd need a whole ship full of old letters, novels, and newspapers to break it. Not just a few plaques on an instrument panel."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry, Consuela," Amy said. "We'll be into Stars' End soon. You'll find your answers there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If I'm lucky enough to go. They haven't picked the science team yet. I'm worried."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll go. You're the best."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi looked at the woman and slowly shook his head. That Stars' End insanity again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know what I'd do if they turned me down, Amy. It's my whole life. I'm not getting any younger. And they might use my age to keep me home."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't worry. You know they can't leave you behind. There's nobody better than you. And they know how much it means to you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How soon, Amy? Do you know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It hasn't been decided yet. But it won't be long. A month or two."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela brightened. "You're sure they'll send me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course. Don't be silly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what I am, you know. A silly old woman."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy enfolded her in gentle arms. "No you're not. No you're not. Come on, now. Show us one of those ships."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela el-Sanga led them to a little four-place air scooter, flew them out to a vessel. BenRabi felt lightheaded in the lack of gravity. "I feel like I could fall all the way to the end," he said, staring down the length of the hollow.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ship was one of the least alien of those in the lineup. "Form follows function," Moyshe muttered, remembering the Luna Command constructs, which had very much resembled small human beings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ship's lock was open. Consuela made fast, led them inside. She was small, but even she had to stoop in the passageways.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe wandered around for an hour. He finally summed up his impressions by observing, "It's not that strange. Just kind of dollhouse. Like it was built for children. You can figure out what half the stuff is. It's just parked places we consider weird."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You said it yourself, form follows function," Consuela replied. "We've done comparative studies between these, Sangaree, Ulantonid, and our own ships. The physical requirements of bipeds appear to be universal. Scales seem to be the most noticeable difference."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That ship two ahead of this one. What built it? A giant slug?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We don't know. It's funny. There's something almost repulsive about it. You have to work yourself up to it if it's your turn to study it. It's like the alienness oozes out of the metal. It's more of a mystery than the other ships. It's almost contemporary, if our dating technique is valid. It shows battle damage. It's the only one of its kind we've ever located. It was as clean as these others. One of my colleagues believes the crew were forced to abandon ship after an accidental encounter during some crisis period, like the Ulantonid War, when everyone was shooting at anybody who didn't yell friend fast enough. Curiously, though, it was surrounded by a whole squadron of our little friends here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enemies?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela shrugged. "Or purely chance. The ships aren't contemporary with one another. What were they doing together? There aren't enough books to write down all the questions, Mister benRabi. It gets frustrating sometimes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can imagine. Could the crew have been studying the old ships when they were attacked by a third party?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's a possibility we hadn't considered. I'll bring it up... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Consuela?" someone shouted into the vessel. "Is that you in there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Robert. What is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody's looking for those people who came to see you. A man named Kindervoort. He sounded pretty excited."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh-oh," Amy said. "I'm in trouble now. I thought he wouldn't notice. Consuela, I'd better call him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She placed the call from Consuela's office. Jarl foamed at the mouth and ordered them to return to <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Now. He snarled at benRabi, "Moyshe, I don't care if you cut those nitwit citizenship classes. They're a waste of time anyway. But you're not ducking out on the training schedule. Now come back here and get your men ready. You've got the rest of your life to look at old ships. The auction is now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy was quiet throughout the return passage. Once she whispered, "He's really going to give it to me," and clutched Moyshe's hand. She was shaking.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's an amateur," benRabi told her. "You haven't been chewed out till you've taken it from Admiral Beckhart." A moment later he grinned and added, "But if it's private, he lets you yell back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Soon after they returned they heard that another of the great harvestfleets was entering the nebula. The news generated a fresh air of excitement aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">One by one, the harvestfleets came in. Scores of fresh, eager young faces appeared aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> as graduates of Seiner technical schools filled the billets of people lost at Stars' End. The howl and hammer of repairs went on around the clock. The excitement and tension continued to mount.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were going back. This time in full strength, and to stay. A prideful, nationalistic, bellicose mood gripped the fleets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe benRabi and Masato Storm pursued their instruction of the teams they would direct on The Broken Wings. Their days were long and exhausting. Moyshe often tumbled into bed without enough energy left for a good-night kiss.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began to feel the pressure. It started to intrude into his sleeping hours. He began to dream of the girl he had left behind, so long ago. He suffered more momentary lapses of attention while he was awake.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began to grow frightened of what might be going on back in the nether reaches of his mind.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36355978" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Eleven: Christmas 3049 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tension gripped the bridge of the attack cruiser <em class="calibre9">Lepanto.</em> "One minute to drop," the astrogation officer announced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jupp von Drachau scanned his people. They were poised like runners in the blocks, awaiting the crack of the starter's pistol. They would have to grab an enormous fund of data in a few brief minutes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> was coming up to an enemy star. There was no way of guessing what might be waiting. Detection gear would not work from hyper unless initial detection had been made in norm. The cruiser was going in blind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No one knew the capabilities of the Sangaree detection systems. Operating from norm, they would not have the same handicap. A force might be moving toward the drop zone now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thirty seconds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stand by, Weapons," von Drachau ordered. "Button up, people." He sealed the faceplate of his own helmet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One quick drop to get his bearings, then a short arc in to the fringes of the Sangaree sun...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Five seconds. Four. Three."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The figures on the bridge hunched forward a centimeter more.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One. Drop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Screens up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Commander, heavy vessels bearing... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Display active."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Three ships bearing... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Range to star one point three two a.u... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We have a local inherent velocity of... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Attack missiles bearing... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bridge. Weapons. Launching two salvos."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The vessel shuddered and rocked. Von Drachau stared at the display tank. Six red blips had come to life there. They sped along projected curves which would bring them within spitting distance of <em class="calibre9">Lepanto.</em> Tiny ruby pinpoints raced ahead, toward the cruiser.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... time to intercept forty-seven seconds... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The hyper alarm commenced its hooted warning to the crew. "Time to hyper one minute," a voice boomed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Someone said, "Commander, we've located the planet."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bring me up a visual."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aye, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau's command screen came to life. For an instant it displayed a computer graphic of the local solar system. The schematic yielded to a visual from an external camera. It showed a white third-crescent. The amplification rose quickly, revealing a world heavy with clouds and seas. "Looks a lot like Old Earth," von Drachau murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Are you taping?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're getting everything we can, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Twenty seconds to hyper."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau glanced at the display tank. The missile salvos were driving closer. Weapons Department was not bothering with anything but defensive fire. Considering the nature of the mission, engaging a handful of raidships was pointless. "Anything near that sun?" he asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No sir. We have a lot of activity near and on the planet."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That made sense. The Sangaree would be scrambling everything in fear that <em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> might be the spearhead of a thrust against their Homeworld. That was the doom they had dreaded for centuries.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hyper in five seconds. Four."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau did not think these picket ships would jump with him. They should await the rest of a suspected battle fleet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One. Taking."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The universe shifted. Screens went blank. The display tank, cued in norm, remained active. Von Drachau stared, willing the Sangaree raidships to remain where they were.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One minute to drop." Astrogation had programed a very short, slow arc.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau reached back into his soul, searching for any wisp of feeling that might bear on the orders he had to give. He did not want to do this thing. Every cell of him protested. And yet... And yet he knew too much. He knew the critical importance of obtaining results. And he had his own orders.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Special Weapons Party, stand by."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His orders would be a formality. The pre-launch program had begun an hour ago. The only significant command he could give now would be the abort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He checked the tank again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Damn!" They were coming. Their detection gear was good. They knew no one else was coming in right away. "Looks like we knocked over a beehive," he said. The six raidships from the drop zone were being joined by a horde quartering in from the planet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Twenty seconds till drop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It would be a narrow squeak, making the launch and getting clear in time. And some of them would chase him all the way home... "Astrogation, program your next jump for Carson's." He did not want to lead the pursuit too close to the action on The Broken Wings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Pull the cassette and reprogram." An attack squadron would be on station near Carson's. He could scoot in and cling to its protective skirts.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Special Weapons Party, launch when ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There. It was too late to take it back. Too late to keep from having to live with it the rest of his life.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Special Weapons launch in three minutes, twelve seconds," launch party captain replied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the holdup? We've got Sangaree crawling up our backs."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, sir. A coupling jammed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Long range hunter missiles bearing... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Visuals, please," von Drachau said. His screen came to life. "Show me the star."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In a second he was staring at an endless plain of fire. Broad continental reaches of darkness lay upon it. The star appeared to be passing through a period of heavy sunspotting. But, as he remembered it, the Sangaree home star was supposed to be highly active, with exceptionally intense solar winds.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Two minutes to special launch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau checked the display tank. The Sangaree were coming on in a mob. They were not organized, but there were too many of them. <em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> wouldn't have a prayer in a heads-up fight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Astrogation, how's your program coming?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Five minutes, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We don't have five minutes. Make it a basal arc that'll drop us in the neighborhood. Do your fine calculation during the fly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... to intercept fifty-two seconds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau glared at the tank. They would have missiles in their pockets by launch time. Power weapons would be pounding <em class="calibre9">Lepanto's</em> energy screens. "Damn!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It looked bad.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Time to launch one minute."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bridge watch took on that hunchbacked look of people anticipating the kiss of the whip. Sixty lousy seconds. That could make a damned short life. Mayflies lasted longer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"... to intercept fourteen seconds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That was close. And the next salvo would be closer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Astrogation. One millisecond free hyper straight linear," von Drachau snapped.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do it!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The alarm hooted as the ship lurched.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Ship's Commander's screen returned to life. The Sangaree sun had moved. He could see a horizon line. It had no curvature.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Weapons Department howled. They had to reprogram.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So do those boys over there. Special Weapons. Time to launch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thirty-two seconds, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Missiles bearing two five-niner relative, one two degrees nadir. Time to intercept two six seconds."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau sighed. That was right on the line. "Gentlemen, we're going to make it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The bridge watch did not relax. They knew his remark was half prayer. The tank proclaimed that in its totally unambiguous display. A saturation barrage was hurtling toward them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And it was a long, long run back to friendly space.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ten seconds to launch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And there was the problem of the weapon safely reaching target. If the Sangaree sniped it, <em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> would have to try again. A second pass could get hairy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> shuddered and lurched. Someone yelled, "That was too goddamned close!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Two. One. Launch. Weapon away."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The warship lurched again. "One tenth second free hyper straight linear!" von Drachau ordered. "Detection, lock on that weapon. I want to know if it makes it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The cruiser dodged. Von Drachau shifted attention between display tank and screen, following the weapon into the sun.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Sangaree missiles had no chance to catch it. Scores of laser and graser weapons probed for it, caressed it with their deadly tongues.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Telemetry. How are its screens holding?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Perfectly, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> rocked. Time was running out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She's in, sir. They can't stop her now. Her sun screens are stable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Astrogation, get us out of here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You still want an observation pass, sir?" R &amp; D had asked them to hang around and study the results.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The hell with that noise! Get out of here before they barbecue us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The hyper alarm hooted. The ship twisted away into an alternate dimension. Von Drachau turned to the display tank.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Some of them are good," he murmured. "Very good."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Four vessels had caught the trail already, and were coming hard.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drive. Run your influence factor to the red line."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You heard me. You'll take it over if you have to. Stand by for it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau glanced at the sun shape dwindling in the display tank. The weapon would be sinking toward its heart. The killing process would begin in a few hours. He turned into himself again, looking for his feelings. All he found was a big vacancy, an arid desert of the soul.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not think much of Jupp von Drachau just then.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36356426" class="calibre10"></div>

  

<div class="calibre5"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre6"><a id="TOC_id36356428" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36356430" class="calibre8"></a>Book Two <br class="calibre7"/></h1>


  <div class="paragraph">THE BROKEN WINGS</div>
  
  <div class="paragraph">Twelve: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Lemuel Beckhart felt totally vulnerable while walking the streets of Angel City. The berg was domed, of course, but the glassteel arced too far overhead. He had been born in Luna Command and had spent most of his life there and in warships. He needed overheads, decks, and bulkheads close at hand before he felt comfortable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Worlds with open skies were pure hell for him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shoved his hands into the pockets of the civilian trousers he wore. It was coming together. The timing looked good. The leaks had the commentators howling for blood.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Funny how they became raving patriots when it looked like their asses were going to go in the can too... Those people in Public Information knew their trade. They were keeping a fine balance. They were generating alarm without causing panic. They were stampeding legislative sessions hither and yon, herding them like unsuspecting cattle, getting everything Luna Command wanted. Confederation Senate was passing appropriations measures like the gold seam had no end.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The real victory was a stream of confederacy applications from outworlds that had remained stubbornly independent for generations. Well-tempered fear. That was the lever. Let them know Confederation would defend its own, and ignore the others when the hammer fell... Those cunning politicians. They were using the crisis too. Everybody was scoring on this one. Would the maneuvering and manipulation settle out in time? It was human nature to go on wasting energy on internal bickering when doom was closing in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those PI people... They were something. They still had not released anything concrete. The propaganda machine in high gear was a wonder to behold.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart was bemused by his own pleasure at observing a high level of professional competence in a department not under his own command.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His mood soured when he reflected on the latest news from his colleagues in Ulantonid intelligence. That centerward race... They seemed to draw some special, wholly inexplicable pleasure from killing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The latest Ulantonid package had included tape taken on a world with a Bronze Age technology. It showed small, suited bipeds, built like a cross between orangutans and kangaroos, armed principally with small arms, systematically eradicating the natives. There was ample footage of shattered cities, burning villages, and murdered babies. Not to mention clips of cadavers of virtually every other mobile lifeform the planet boasted.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If it moved, the hopping, long-armed creatures shot it. If it did not, they dug it out of hiding and killed it anyway.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There had been no sky full of ships for this primitive world, just a stream of transports sending in troops, munitions, small flyers, and the equipment used to hunt down the wilder creatures of mountain and forest. The Ulantonid experts estimated a troop input approaching ten billion "soldiers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart could not grasp that number. Ten billions. For one primitive world... Confederation and Ulant together had not had that many people under arms during the most savage years of their conflict.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They've got to be crazy," he muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He paused near the building where Thomas McClennon, now Moyshe benRabi, had kept the Sangaree woman distracted while Storm had torn the guts out of her Angel City operation. Christ, but hadn't those boys pulled a coup? And now they had come through again, giving him the Sangaree Homeworld.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had to bring them out. Somehow. He refused to write men off while they lived.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was determined. There had to be a way to apply enough leverage to force their release... If it came to that alone, and he could prise no better yield from the coming encounter, he would be satisfied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The thing looked made to order for another coup. "Down, boy," he muttered. "First things first. You're here to get your boys back. Anything else comes second."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Still, it was coming together. The word was, the Sangaree wanted revenge. It was a good bet the Seiners would have another go at Stars' End. The rumors and leaks from Luna Command had everybody excited about an ambergris shortage. A lot of eyes would be staring down gun barrels at this end of the Arm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was pleased. He had choreographed it perfectly. Only he and High Command would be thinking about von Drachau. If von Drachau succeeded, the news would hit like the proverbial ton of bricks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He strolled on to the warehouse that had headquartered the local Sangaree operation. It was a fire-blackened pile of rubble. The authorities had not cleared it yet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes, Lemuel, you're not a very nice person," he murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was repelled by some of the things he did. But he was sincere in his belief that they were necessary.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was terrified of that centerward race. The hungry bunnies, he called them, for no truly good reason.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ten billions for one world. Tens of thousands of ships.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">How could they be stopped?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Why the hell were they so determined to kill? There was no logic to it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was there anything more he could do? Anything he had overlooked?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He lay awake nights trying to think of something. He suspected that everyone in High Command slept poorly of late, running the same perilous race courses in hopes of finding the key to escape from the nightmare.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His beeper squeaked. He raised it to his ear. "Hand delivery only, urgent, for Blackstone," a remote voice told him. He returned the beeper to his belt and walked briskly toward his headquarters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The courier was a full Commander. He wore a side-arm, and carried the message in a tamperproof case that would destruct should anyone but Lemuel Beckhart attempt to open it. The case bore a High Command seal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sit, Commander. What's the news from Luna Command?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Commander was a taciturn man. "We seem to be in for some excitement, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's a fact. You came in with the squadrons taking station?" Three heavy squadrons had taken orbit around The Broken Wings. They were there at his request.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. Aboard <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Popanokulos still Ship's Commander?" Beckhart placed his thumbs at the proper points on the case. Something whirred. He prised it open with a fingernail.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How is he? He was one of my students, years ago." He was reluctant to open the plain white envelope lying within the case.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's in excellent health, sir. He asked me to extend his best regards."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Extend mine in return, Commander." He initialed a pink slip for the second time, indicating that the contents of the case had been received. He would have to do so twice more, indicating message read, then message destroyed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Commander moved slightly in his chair. He appeared impatient to return to <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em> Beckhart opened the envelope, removed what appeared to be a sheet of plain white paper. He pressed his thumbs against the bottom corners. Invisible microcircuitry read his prints. A handwritten message slowly took form, appearing at the rate it had been written.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">L: All-time screw-up at R&amp;D research facility. Cause unclear. System destroyed. Total loss. VD away with 2 apples. Public disclosure disaster unavoidable. M.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart laid the sheet on his desk, covered his face with the palms of his hands.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There went a key hope. Without telling his Ulantonid opposite number why, he had asked for additional deep probes toward galaxy center, hoping to locate home-worlds that could be shattered with the new weapon. He had hoped the grandeur and viciousness of the thing could be used to intimidate the centerward race into abandoning their insane crusade.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A total loss. All the info, both on the weapon itself and what had gone wrong. Damn it to hell, anyway!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He initialed the pink slip, burned the message, and initialed the slip again. "Thank you, Commander." He handed slip and case over. "There won't be a reply."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very well, sir. Have a nice day."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart wore a puzzled smile as the officer pushed out the door. A nice day? Not likely. He keyed a switch on his desk communicator. "I need Major Damon."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A few days later his comm whined at him. "Yes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Communications, sir." The commtech sounded choked. "Signals from <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em>, sir. The Starfishers are here. Just detected."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart felt a stir of excitement. He asked, "What's the problem?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir, I... Let me feed you the <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em> data, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart touched a button. The tiny screen on his comm crackled to life. A series of computer data began flashing across it. Then came a schematic of a ship.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He read the size figures three times before murmuring, "Holy shit." He leaned back, said, "Communications, keep running that till I say stop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He watched the report three times through before he was satisfied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">So those were harvestships... They were self-contained worlds. If Navy could lay hands on a few of those, and arm them with Empire Class weaponry... "Communications, page Major Damon. Tell him to come to my office."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The commander of the Marine Military Police battalion reported only minutes later.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Major, there'll be an adjustment in our plans. Watch this." Beckhart ran the report from <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em> Damon was suitably impressed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Major, sit. We're going to do some brain-storming."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The session lasted the day and the night and into the next day. It ended when Communications interrupted. "Admiral, signals from <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em> Sir, they've intercepted signals between the Seiner ships. They thought you'd be interested."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course I am. Give it to me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The relay was not long. And it was both baffling and exciting. The Starfishers were going to put his own boys in charge of their auction security effort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had it run twice. Satisfied, he said, "Major, go get yourself eight hours. Then get back here and we'll pick up where we left off. This changes things again. We work it right, now, and we're in the chips."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After the Major departed, he had <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em> open an instel link with Luna Command. He spent an hour in conference. He broke off smiling a weak smile. This auction might be more than serendipitous.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He dragged himself to his cot, hoping to catch a few hours, but could not fall asleep.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His conscience kept nagging him. Once again he would have to use men cruelly for the sake of the Services and Confederation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was so weary of that...</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36356773" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Thirteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Payne's Fleet dropped hyper a Sol System radius from The Broken Wings. <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> formed the point of the arrowhead of ships flashing toward the planet. Accompanying the harvestships were a hundred service ships borrowed from other fleets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Seiners wanted to make an impression. They believed this show of strength would rivet all eyes on The Broken Wings.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">While the credit from the auction was important to them, distracting attention from Stars' End meant even more.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Almost all Seinerdom had taken hyper for the fortress world. The harvestfleets had gathered. A hundred harvestships, a thousand service ships, and untold millions of people would be involved in the effort to recover the citadel world's weapons. That gargantuan armada, bearing the hope of a nation, was avoiding traffic lanes, flying easy, awaiting word of the success of the auction diversion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A confrontation with Confederation had to be avoided. The Seiner leadership understood the swift doom inherent in a two-front war.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A one-front war was a terrible enough hazard.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've got trouble," Jarl Kindervoort told his staff. "We've just received a scout report from Stars' End. The Sangaree have moved in there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse made a sound suspiciously like a purr. "Won't hurt my feelings if they get crunched again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody's going to get crunched. The report says there're hundreds of raidships there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm and benRabi became more attentive. Mouse asked, "Hundreds? That would take... Hell, the Families would all have to be working together. They don't do that."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort replied, "They seem to have their hearts set on grabbing Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They aren't the only ones," benRabi muttered. He snorted in disgust, shook his head. "Who's fault is that, Jarl?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean, Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Consider our last run-in. Consider one Maria Elana Gonzales, technician, alias Marya Strehltsweiter, Sangaree agent. Remember her? The lady who tried to kill <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>? I shot her and stopped her. And you nice people politely patched her up and sent her home with the other returning landsmen. Bet you she ran straight to her bosses and set this up. Nice doesn't pay, Jarl."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse shifted his chair so he could stare at benRabi. He said nothing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Once upon a time, on a faraway world called The Broken Wings, a partner of Mouse's, wearing the work-name Dr. Gundaker Niven, had stopped him from killing a Sangaree agent named Marya Strehltsweiter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe reddened.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let's not cry about what we should have done," Kindervoort said. "We're here now. Let me have those situation reports, Amy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy pushed a sheaf of flimsies across the tabletop. "Navy is damned interested in this end of the universe, too. Three heavy squadrons off The Broken Wings. Squadrons <em class="calibre9">Hapsburg, Prussian</em>, and <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Empire Class?" Mouse asked. "All of them? They mean business, don't they?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There're battle squadrons at Carson's and Sierra, too. Our friends the Freehaulers couldn't get close enough to identify them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And no telling what's in the bushes," benRabi mused.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're playing poker, Jarl. They've shown us a couple of aces face up. What you have to worry about is their hole cards. What have they got cruising around a couple of light years away ready to jump in?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think they'll try a power play?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Not like that. But it might behoove us to spend a little brain power figuring what they're up to. Navy doesn't put that much power together unless they're scared they'll have to use it. You hardly ever see a patrol of more than two ships."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know Service thinking better than me. Why're they so excited?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The dispositions look defensive," Moyshe said. "And that leads us to our lack of landside intelligence. What's the Planetary Defense Forces alert level in the Transverse? Have they activated any reserves? If so, which units? We could extrapolate their fears from that kind of information."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We have the liaison team report." Kindervoort shuffled flimsies.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse and benRabi had insisted on sending a few men ahead, weeks ago.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've seen it," Moyshe said. "They've given The Broken Whigs the usual temporary free planet status. They've pledged an open auction. The city authorities are so nervous they've called up their police reserves and asked Marine MPs to help. They expect trouble. Nobody is saying why."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The coded reports said there were three hundred privately owned ships orbiting The Broken Wings. Each had brought a negotiating team hoping to carry off a supply of ambergris. Most of the vessels appeared to be armed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">All known space was, apparently, in the grip of an undirected war fervor. No one was behaving normally. The auction had a potential for becoming a wild brawl.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse, Moyshe," Kindervoort said, "I don't mind telling you, this thing has me scared. It's too big, and it looks like it could get bigger. Be very, very careful."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It could get too big for anybody," Mouse said. His voice was soft and thoughtful. "It could roll us all under." For two days <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> and her sisters drifted slowly toward The Broken Wings, watching and listening. They kept their presence secret longer than Moyshe expected. He and his compatriots obtained two days' worth of observations.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They provided no comfort. Angel City was hell incarnate. Armies of undercover people had materialized there. They were warring with one another with a fine disregard for reason and local tranquility.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The war scare had set off a chain reaction of insanity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As a landing team leader benRabi now rated his own office and a part-time assistant. His wife filled the assistant's role.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Till this is over, at least, I'm important, he thought. He put little stock in Mouse's theory that they were being groomed to master a Starfisher secret service. He had been able to make no independent corroboration of the claim.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi's intercom buzzed. "BenRabi here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl, Moyshe. I need you over here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right. Final meeting."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm on my way." He gathered his papers, donned fatalism like a cloak, and stalked toward Kindervoort's office. He met Mouse outside Kindervoort's door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Broomstick fly," Mouse said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No lie. Anybody with any sense would cancel the auction."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned. "Not the Seiners. You got to remember, this auction is part of their big picture."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think they'd go ahead even if it weren't."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on in," Kindervoort called. A moment later he began introducing them to the Ships' Commanders and Chiefs of Security of the other harvestships of Payne's Fleet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The gentlemen were present only as holo portrayals. Kindervoort, Storm, and benRabi would be aboard their vessels the same way. They and the holo equipment and technicians reduced Kindervoort's office to postage stamp size.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You bring your final reports?" Kindervoort asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi nodded. Mouse said, "Right here. But you're not going to like them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're reality-based. Meaning they recommend that you cancel or postpone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi added, "We can't handle security with what you've given us. Not under the conditions obtaining."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've been talking about that. How many more men would you need?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"About a brigade of MPs," Mouse growled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, you look surprised," Kindervoort said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just thinking that this isn't like working for the Bureau. You ask the Admiral for more than he gives you, he takes half away and tells you to make do. I'd say another hundred men. And two more months to train them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mr. Storm. Are those realistic figures?" one Ship's Commander asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Minimum realistic. My partner is one of your incurable optimists. But there is an alternative. Cancel this shore leave plan. Don't send anybody down but members of the auction team. We can set up a compound... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> Commander interrupted. "Sorry. No can do, Mister Storm. We promised our people liberty. Mister benRabi, we'll give you as many men as you want. But the thing has got to be done now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're going to lose people," benRabi protested. He was so irritated he stamped a foot. "Shore leave is stupid. The more people you let wander around down there, the fewer I'm going to be able to protect."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had lost this argument several times before. The brass had promised everybody a chance to see what life on a planet was like. They would not go back on their word despite having learned that the Angel City situation was more deadly than expected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe had begun to suspect that the complication was deliberate, and purely for the propaganda possibilities inherent in potential dead or injured tourists. If his guess was correct, then someone upstairs was as cold-blooded as his old boss, Admiral Beckhart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This's the way it's going to be, then," Moyshe said. "You'll have ten thousand tourists on the ground all the time. That's going to make the Angel City merchants happy and me miserable. I'll have half of a hundred fifty men if you give me the hundred I just asked for. That doesn't divide out too good, so the tourists will be on their own. If they get into trouble, tough. I'll cover auction people and VIPs. God can take care of the rest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He surveyed his audience. He did not see any sympathy there. "You pushed me into this job," he growled. "Why not let me do the damned thing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse backed him up. "The same goes for my shift, gents. That's the real world down there. The world of Confederation, espionage, and bad guys, I should say. Those people don't do things the Starfisher way. I've been led to believe that Moyshe and I were given our jobs because we know The Broken Wings and Confederation. And the intelligence viewpoint. I wish you'd accept our expertise. And quit trying to make other realities conform to your views about the way things ought to be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm winked at Moyshe. They had taken the offensive. They had gotten in their licks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort said, "Let's calm down. This's no time for tempers. The job has got be be done, like it or not." Kindervoort's comm buzzed. "Security."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"James, Radio, sir. Is the Ship's Commander there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Ship's Commander stepped to the comm. "What is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've noticed an increase in coded traffic, sir. It could mean that we've been detected."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Within minutes several other departments reported similar suspicions. The interruptions kept Mouse and benRabi from arguing their case. The Ship's Commander excused himself, as did his Executive Officer. The holographic visitors faded away. The holo technicians started packing their equipment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, damned me," Moyshe grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you think?" Kindervoort asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's hideous," Mouse snapped.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi spread his hands in a fatalistic gesture. "What the hell? Nobody listens to anything I say."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think there's any chance they could lay hands on somebody who knows something worth their while?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course there's a chance. You've seen the damned situation reports. They mean business down there. I'm trying to do a job. If nobody will let me... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, I'm not the Ship's Commander. Just between you and me, I think you're right. I argued your case harder than you think. The Ship's Commander just doesn't see the rest of the universe in anything but Seiner terms. He thinks Confederation is just like us, only working against us. He thinks this is some kind of competition between fleets. He's wrong, but he's in charge. If he wants shoreside liberty, that's what he gets. Do what you can, and grit your teeth if you lose a few. Just don't let them find out what's going on at Stars' End before we get hold of the weapons."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That will mean fighting the Sangaree again, Jarl. Which means we won't get any back-up here if this show blows up in our faces."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"True. We're on our own. So we stall. We go slow. We keep the auction piddling along. With luck, Gruber will finish before we've lost our distraction value."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's candy," Mouse grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"From hunger," benRabi agreed. They had begun to slip into landside idiom again. "You're all hyper bent."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The public address system came to life. The Ship's Commander asked for volunteers willing to join the auction security effort down in Angel City.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">People started showing up immediately. Amy was the first applicant.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're not going," Moyshe told her. "That's the final word."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She fought back. The argument became bitter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lieutenant," Moyshe said, "you will remain aboard ship. That's an order. Jarl, will you support my directives?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Damn you, Moyshe benRabi... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Honey, I'm not letting you get killed. Shut up and go back to work."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were thousands of volunteers. Everyone wanted an extended vacation landside. No one believed there was any danger. Previous auctions were reputed to have been long, wonderful parties.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You got your list?" Moyshe asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had interviewed the candidates who had survived an initial screening. Each had noted the most likely names. They had agreed to take the first hundred names that appeared on both their lists.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Orbiting in to The Broken Wings, Moyshe found the recent past beginning to feel vacationlike in retrospect. He and Mouse would not make overnight soldiers of their volunteers. Even the old hands were terribly weak. Seiner lives revolved around space and ships and harvesting. They would make perfect Navy people. Groundpounders, never.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The toughest hurdle was to make them understand, on a gut level, that someone they could see could be an enemy. A given of Seiner life was that those you could see were friends. Their enemies always existed only as blips in display tanks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a hard lesson for landsmen," Mouse said. "That's why Marines stay in Basic so long. Our culture doesn't produce the hunter-killer naturally. We ought to build us a time machine so we can go recruit in the Middle Ages."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe chuckled. "They wouldn't understand what the fighting was about, Mouse. They'd laugh themselves sick."</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion</em> and her sisters went into geosynchronous orbit well above Angel City's horizon. The message was not lost on anyone. If there was too much foolishness downstairs, the fire could fall.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe, in spacesuit, wrestling a load of armaments, joined Storm for the journey to their departure station.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wish we had real combat gear," Mouse said. "These suits won't stand much punishment."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Be nice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Get any sleep?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Couldn't. I kept watching the news from Angel City." Moyshe had been shaken by the reports.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Me too. Something big is happening. There're too many undercurrents. Be careful, Moyshe. Let's don't get bent with it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You ever feel like an extra cog?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Since the first day I worked for Beckhart. There was always something on that I couldn't figure out. Here we are. And Jarl looks excited."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort was overseeing the loading of the four lighters that would make the initial landings, in pairs at fifteen minute intervals. Storm and benRabi would command the teams aboard the lead pair.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're going overboard, Jarl," benRabi said as they approached Kindervoort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why? The more we impress them now, the less trouble we'll have later."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You won't impress them. Not when they have three squadrons here. Go take a look at what Operations has on those ships. Three Empire Class battlewagons, Jarl. The Second Coming wouldn't faze them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I smell Beckhart," Mouse said. "Something about the way things are going... He's back in the woods somewhere, poking holes in our plans before we know what they are ourselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort said, "Make sure that... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know! I know!" benRabi snapped. "We've been over everything fifty times. Just turn us loose, will you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go easy, Moyshe," Mouse said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You take it easy, Mouse," he replied, gently. Storm had begun shaking. He was thinking about the long fall to the planet's surface.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll be all right when things start rolling. I'll go AM if I have to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Things are rolling now," Kindervoort said. "Get moving. Take your musters."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Work helped settle Moyshe's nerves. He mustered his men, checked their suits, made sure their weapons were ready, and that they had the first phase of the operation clearly in mind. He rehearsed it for himself. The lighter sealed off from <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Moyshe joined the pilot. He wanted to remain near the ship's radio.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All go, Moyshe?" from Kindervoort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Landing party go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Pilot?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ship's go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stand by for release."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The pilot hit a switch. His visuals came up, presenting views of <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> hull, stars, and The Broken Wings in crescent. The planet was a huge, silvery scimitar. Its surface lay masked by perpetual cloud cover.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Broken Whigs was a very hot, very wet world, with a nasty atmosphere. Its handful of cities were all protected by huge glassteel domes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Dropping," Kindervoort said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The magnetic grappels released the lighter. The pilot eased her away from the harvestship. Radar showed Mouse's boat, almost lost in the return from <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>, doing the same a hundred meters away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They picked up their service ship escort and began the long plunge toward Angel City's spaceport.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort would lead the second wave. Behind him would come armed lighters from other harvestships, ready to provide close air support if that proved necessary.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The planet grew in the viewscreens. On infrared it looked rather like Old Earth. Moyshe told his pilot, "The first survey teams thought this would be a paradise."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The pilot glanced at the screen. "It's not?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a honey trap."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A greenhouse effect made it a permanently springtime world. It was a riot with a roughly Permian level of life. Its continents lay low. Much of the so-called land area was swamp. Methane made the air unbreathable. The planet was on the verge of a mountain-building age. Three hundred kilometers north of Angel City lay a region locally dubbed the Land of A Million Volcanoes. It added a lung-searing touch of hydrogen-sulfide to the air.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The first wisps of atmosphere caressed the lighters. The escort braked preparatory to pulling out. The landing teams would be on their own the last 100,000 meters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's boat screamed down less than a kilometer from benRabi's. Their pilots kept station almost as skillfully as Marine coxswains. They had handled atmosphere before, somewhere.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe became ever more tense, awaiting some sudden, unpleasant greeting from below. There was none. It was a picnic fly, except that it was a penetration run without thought to economy or comfort, just getting down with speed. Moyshe kept a close monitor on the radio chatter of the second wave, already in the slot and coming down.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The lighter rocked and shuddered, braking in. BenRabi staggered back to his men.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was barely time for him to hit his couch before, with a bone-jarring smack, the ship set down. Moyshe sprang up and turned to the opening hatch, lase-rifle in hand. Behind him came two men with grenade-launchers, then the rest of the team.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe jumped out, dodged aside. Two hundred meters away Mouse hit tarmac at virtually the same instant. His pathfinders spread out to place the target markers for vessels yet to arrive.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The thing became anticlimactic. No one was home. The field was naked of ships and people.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then a stiff-necked, thin old man in a bubble-top, The Broken Wings swamper's outsuit, stepped from a utility shed. "Beautiful landing, Thomas," he said on radio. "Ah. And Mouse, too. You've taught well, boys. But you had the best teachers yourselves."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart!" Mouse gasped.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You were expecting St. Nick, son?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You said you smelled him," benRabi snapped. "Mouse, raise <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Tell them to stand by on the main batteries. General alarm. Have Jarl come close circle with the air support."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, Thomas, what are you doing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The question is, what are <em class="calibre9">you</em> doing?" He covered Beckhart while Mouse handled the communications chores. Kindervoort came up on the suit frequency, chattering wildly. He wanted an explanation for the panic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I just came out to welcome you," Beckhart said. "I wanted to see my boys." All operatives were "son" or "my boys" to Beckhart. He treated them like family—when he was not trying to get them killed. BenRabi had strong love-hate feelings for the man.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stifled his emotions. For the moment Beckhart had to be considered the most dangerous enemy around. His presence altered everything.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is all this?" the Admiral demanded. "An invasion? This is a free planet, Thomas."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi foresaw a sorry, sad old man act. The act that so often won the Admiral his way. One means of beating it was to throw him a hard slider. What the hell was his first name? Using it would rattle him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We heard there was some dust getting kicked up here," Mouse said. "Nicolas! Will you get those men deployed? What the hell do you think this is?" The Seiners were standing around gawking, stricken motionless by the sheer hugeness of the planet. How could you be military the first time you saw open spaces and an infinite sky? "We don't take chances, Admiral."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart chuckled. "There was a spot of trouble. I've got it under control."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We heard something about martial law," benRabi said. "How does that fit with your standards of neutrality?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We pick on everyone separately but equally." Beckhart chuckled again. He glanced around at the Starfisher landing parties, then at the sky. "There's no violation in spirit, Thomas. I need what you're selling. You'll sell it in peace if I have to break every head on the planet. That's why I elected myself your welcoming committee. Now then, I think I've got everything ready for you. Why don't you ride in with me and tell me about your adventures?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse and benRabi exchanged glances. This was not what they had expected. It stank of Beckhart scheming. But... if the Old Man said things were under control, they were. He rarely lied, though he enjoyed razzle-dazzling you from the other room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right," Moyshe said, making a snap decision. "Nicolas. Kiski. Pack up your weapons and get over here. Admiral, what's the transportation picture?" The spaceport, like any built with an eye to safety, was well removed from the city it served.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excellent. It should be arriving... Ah. Here it is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A column of Marine personnel carriers rumbled onto the field.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Did you bring the Guinness?" Mouse asked. "We might as well be sociable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A shipload," Beckhart replied. "And with any luck von Drachau will show up and share a few before we close up shop."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jupp?" benRabi asked. "Really?" He looked forward to that. Jupp was still a friend, though he was on the other side now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He and Mouse shuffled their men into the first few carriers, advised Kindervoort of the altered situation, and left for Angel City as the second wave began rumbling down the sky.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36357554" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Fourteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart's word proved good. Angel City was quiet. Central Park, a recreational area at the city's heart, had been equipped with field tents, trailers, and miscellany the Admiral had borrowed from the Corps. Storm and benRabi set up for business before noon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse," benRabi said, "you get the feeling we're being rushed?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's not a feeling, Moyshe. It's a fact."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How do we stall?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Men with briefcases were lining up to obtain the little catalogs Moyshe's team had brought along. "Buy time," Jarl had said. It did not look like they would be given a chance. The various purchasing agents, impelled by the war scare, wanted the bidding to begin right away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Marines proved to be perfect policemen. They helped immeasurably. They showed favoritism only to Starfisher tourists. The Admiral seemed determined to avoid a significant incident, and to help the local shopkeepers relieve the Seiner sightseers of all their hard currency.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm lost his first tourist their second day on The Broken Wings. The man turned up again before Mouse learned that he had been taken. He was none the worse for wear. He was a mess cook from <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> who knew nothing anyone wanted to know.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's started," Mouse told benRabi when Moyshe relieved him. "Make sure everybody checks in before they wander off. Check their passes. The ones we have to watch have been given a red one."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You know who grabbed the man?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. I didn't try to find out. I just passed it to Beckhart. I figure we might as well let his people do it. We'll have more people to watch our criticals."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe lost several people on his shift. There was only one incident with anyone who mattered. His people handled it perfectly, and presented the would-be kidnapper to Beckhart's Marines.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The man turned out to be a frustrated newshawk trying to get around Seiner and Confederation censors. Beckhart booted him off planet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Days ground by, producing no insoluble problems. The auction bidding was wild. Prime ambergris nodes repeatedly brought record prices. There were rumors that Confederation meant to get a stranglehold on the trade. Outsiders and private industry wanted to grab while the grabbing was good.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That rumor made Moyshe nervous. The way the Admiral shrugged it off, he suspected the Bureau had an angle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The war scare, if not genuine, was convincing. Confederation and Ulantonid forces were marshaling on the boundaries of the March of Ulant. People were getting scared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Did they mean to fight one another? Or some third party? The news people were wondering too. Luna Command had been leaking one line of news one week, another the next.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">News snoops became Moyshe's biggest problem. They used every trick to capitalize on an opportunity to approach real Seiners. Moyshe did three interviews himself. Someone had tipped the media that he was a former Bureau agent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He refused interviews after someone discovered that he and Mouse had been responsible for Jupp von Drachau's famous raid in the Hell Stars.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then Seiners ceased to be newsworthy. The sword-rattling on the frontier faded away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Luna Command had admitted that a secret research station and its entire solar system had been destroyed. The hitherto hypothetical nova bomb had been developed there, and proven in unfortunate circumstances.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Maybe there is a God, Moyshe thought. A loving God willing to turn an insane weapon on its creators.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a tape of the disaster. Navy claimed it had been shot by a supply vessel entering the system by happenstance. It got hours of air play.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was awesome, but there was something odd about it. Moyshe could not shake the feeling that it had been faked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart seemed to be amused by the whole thing. That was not his style. Not in the face of a genuine disaster.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe was using a free minute to try digesting sixteen months of back news when Amy walked into his trailer-office. "What the hell are you doing here?" he demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's some greeting from a husband." She pouted. "I thought you'd be glad to see me." She pulled his rolling chair from behind his desk, spun him, and plopped into his lap.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not. It's too damned dangerous."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You must've found yourself a girlfriend. Yeah. I know all about you Navy men."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The danger... All right. I give up." He hugged her. "Let me knosh on your neck, woman."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a knock. "Up, girl. Enter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A harassed and apologetic youth bustled in. "Messages and mail," he said. "Looks like some real excitement starting."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How so?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Read. Read." The messenger folded his receipt and left.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The top flimsy was a copy of a terse communique from Gruber. He had sent a strong probing force toward Stars' End. It had been driven away by a combined force of Sangaree and McGraw pirates. "Amy! Read that."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She did. "What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"An alliance between the Sangaree and pirates?" He initialed the copy, flipped it into Mouse's In box.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The next flimsy was intriguing. Freehauler merchantmen off Carson's and Sierra reported that the Navy squadrons there had taken hyper. He passed the copy to Amy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All Naval personnel here have had their liberties cancelled. Two of the squadrons up top have been told to make ready to space. What do you think?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The war thing about the break?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shrugged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The only other item was a magazine, <em class="calibre9">Literati</em>, with attached envelope hand-addressed to a Thomas McClennon, Captain, CN.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It baffled Moyshe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I see you've been promoted," Amy said. Suspicion edged her voice. He glanced at her, surprised. Anger and fear colored her face in turn.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell?" He set the envelope aside and turned to the magazine's contents page. Halfway down he encountered the title, "All Who Were Before Me In Jerusalem," followed by the promoted name. "No," murmured, and, "I don't understand this."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it?" Amy looked over his shoulder. "Am I supposed to congratulate you? I don't understand what's happening."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't either, love. Believe me, I don't." He slipped one arm around her waist, turned to the story.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was the version he had written aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>, before deciding to become a Seiner. How had the magazine obtained it?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He threw his thought train into reverse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had not packed the manuscript in any of the bags he had lost when his gear had gone back to Confederation without him. Though he had not seen the manuscript since then, he was sure it was in his cabin. He had not moved it. He was absolutely certain he had not.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy, remember my story? The one you never could understand? You know what happened to the manuscript?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. I figured you trashed it. I didn't ask because I thought you'd get mad. I never gave you any time to write, and I know you wanted to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He made a call to Security aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Fifteen minutes later he knew. The manuscript was not in his cabin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thinking it safely stowed away, he had not worried about it before. He worried now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Everything he and Mouse had learned about the Starfishers had been in that manuscript, penned between the lines and on the backs of sheets in invisible ink. If that had reached the Bureau...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy, that business with the Sangaree failsafer... Come on. We've got to talk to Jarl." He grabbed her wrist and dragged her. He snatched the flimsies from Mouse's In tray.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What are you mad about?" she asked. "Slow down, Moyshe. You're hurting me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hurry up. This's important."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They found Kindervoort at a place called Pagliacci's. It was a dusky, scenty, park-facing restaurant where both Seiner and Confederation luminaries dined and amused themselves by pumping one another over pasta and wine. BenRabi pushed past the carabinier doorman, overran a spiffy maître de, stalked across a darkly decorated main dining room, through garlicy smells, to a small, private room in the rear. Admiral Beckhart held court there these days.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He and Kindervoort were playing a game of fence-with-words. Kindervoort was losing. He was relieved by Moyshe's appearance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe slapped the papers down in front of Kindervoort. "We've been had."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort scanned the top flimsy. "Where're your ships headed?" he asked Beckhart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral chuckled. "I don't ask you questions like that. But not to worry, my friends. It doesn't involve your people. Not directly." He chuckled again, like an old man remembering some prank of his youth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort read the second flimsy, then thumbed through the magazine. "I suppose you want me to congratulate you, Moyshe. So congratulations."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl, I didn't finish that story till a couple days before the landsmen went home. And I came into this mess graded Commander. Someone had to put the story on the ship to Carson's."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It wasn't me that did. I left it out of my stuff because it carried the notes I'd kept for <em class="calibre9">him.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah. I see." Kindervoort considered Beckhart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral smiled, asked, "This lovely lady your bride, Thomas?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy favored him with an uncertain smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Watch him, honey. He's another Mouse. He can charm a cobra."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort stared and thought. Finally, he asked, "Did they get anything critical?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't remember. I think it was mostly social observations. Like that. Impressions. Guesswork."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sit down, Thomas," Beckhart said. "Mrs. McClennon. Drinks? Something to eat?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's benRabi now. Moyshe benRabi," benRabi grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm used to McClennon, you know. Surely you can't expect an old dog to learn new tricks." He rang for service. "Mrs. McClennon, you've caught yourself a pretty special man. I consider my men my boys. Like sons, so to speak. And Thomas and Mouse are two of my favorites." BenRabi frowned. What was the man up to? "So, though he defected and it hurts, I try to understand. I'm glad he finally found someone. He needs you, Missy, so be good to him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy began to relax. Beckhart charmed her into giving him a genuine smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There we go. There we go. I recommend the spaghetti, children. Astonishingly good for this far from nowhere." Jarl coughed, a none too subtle reminder that there was business to be discussed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right," Beckhart said, turning to Kindervoort. "I'm exercising an old man's prerogative. I'm changing my mind. I'm going to spill the facts before there's a bad misunderstanding."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, do," benRabi snapped.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, Thomas, don't be so damned hostile all the time." He sipped some wine. "First, let's swing back to the Ulantonid War. To their rationale for attacking Confederation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Our blue friends are obsessed with the long run. Us apes, the best we manage is a ten-year fleet modernization program, or a twenty-year colonial development project. They figure technological and sociological effects in terms of centuries. We'd save ourselves a lot of trouble if we'd take a page from their book. Thomas, sip your wine and be patient. I'm politely getting to the point.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What I want you to understand is they roam pretty far afield in order to figure out what's coming up the day after next year."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's that got to do with whatever you're up to now?" Kindervoort asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm getting there. I'm getting there. See. This right here is what's wrong with our species. We're always in such a damned hurry. We never look ahead. My point? Ulant does. When the war hates settled down and we let them build ships again, they resumed their deep probes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So?" Moyshe said. He was trying to fly easy, but for some reason he had a chill crawling his spine.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let an old man have his way, Thomas. It isn't every day I spout cosmic secrets in an Italian restaurant. Here it is, then. About thirty years ago Ulant made an alien contact. This was a long way in along The Arm. They eventually brought it to our attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"People, this race makes our friends the Sangaree look angelic. I've seen them in action myself. Really, words can't express it. What I mean to say is, I hope I don't have to see them again, here in our space. They're bad, people. Really bad. When they get done with a world there's nothing left bigger than a cockroach."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral paused for effect. His audience did not respond. He looked from face to face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's a bit much to swallow," Moyshe said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It is. Of course. It took us a while to bite when the Blues brought it to us. By us I mean Luna Command. They knew better than to go to that dungheap called a Diet. For a good many years now, with the Minister the only civilian in the know, we've been working with Ulant to get ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi recalled his visit to Luna Command before drawing the Starfisher assignment. The place had gone completely weird. The tunnels had been filled with rumors of war, and crowded with military folk from a variety of races and scores of human planets beyond Confederation's pale. Even then there had been the smell of something big in the air.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then this confrontation with Ulant is a smoke screen? A light show cooked up with Prime Defender so she and you people could con bigger appropriations? Admiral, the first lesson pounded into me at Academy was that the Services don't make policy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yep. And it's the first lesson an officer unlearns, Thomas. One of my staff boys quoted me a Roman soldier a while back. ‘We are the Empire.' Thomas, the Services <em class="calibre9">are</em> Confederation. Those of us who have gotten old in our jobs take that to heart. We make policy. Me, I shape the whole Confederation outlook. I'm doing it right now, by talking about this. It's no big thing, though. The news is starting to break. So many people are in the know now, truth can't hide. In three months every citizen will have seen tapes documenting the murder of the world I visited... I can run that tape for you if you want. Just come over to headquarters sometime. Then you won't think I'm blowing smoke."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't think it, I know it." But Moyshe was not sure. He had known the Admiral for a decade. He never had seen the man more excited, or more intense. He had assumed an aura, the way Mouse did when he talked about Sangaree. "You talk like a man who's found religion."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart nodded. "You're right. I'm getting carried away. But I've seen it. It doesn't make any sense, and that's why it's so damned scary. They hop from world to world, like galactic exterminators... I'm doing it again. Sorry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why are you telling us now?" Kindervoort demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Trying to shed some light on what we're doing. We're going to make our first spoiling strike before the end of the year. We have just a couple of things left to straighten out before we move."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had a sudden, intense feeling of danger. Startled, he glanced over his shoulder. There was no one behind him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart's explanation, mad as it sounded, did tie the Bureau's frantic behavior into a neat ball. "What's still on your job list?" Moyshe asked. He glared at Beckhart, daring him to say something about Starfishers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The original assignment now made military sense. Communications were the backbone of the fleet. Every ambergris node obtained would improve Navy's combat efficiency.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart surprised him again. "Sangaree, Thomas. The worms that gnaw from within."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe's mental alarms jangled. "You don't expect the Sangaree to be a long-term problem?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Thanks to Mouse."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?" Kindervoort and benRabi spoke together.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why were you sent to the Starfishers, Thomas?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"To locate you a starfish herd. To get Navy a source of ambergris it wouldn't have to share."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So you thought. So you thought. Actually, incorporation was a political goal, not military. It hasn't been important to Luna Command. We've known how to find Payne's Fleet for years. That's right, Captain Kindervoort. Starfishers can be recruited. I have agents aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> Thomas suspected as much when he charged in here with his magazine. But there was no pressing need to incorporate you. Grabbing a fleet might have started a fatal uproar. Nowadays... If I was a Starfisher who hoped for a future in my business, I'd polish up on my Confederation studies."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort smiled a thin, wicked smile. "I don't think we need to worry, Admiral."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart winked at Moyshe, jerked his head to indicate Kindervoort. "Doesn't know me, does he? Thomas, the mission was aimed at the Sangaree. You should have known. That's all Mouse works. Don't interrupt your elders, boy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi had intended to ask why he had been sent along.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought the Starfishers, because they deal with the Freehaulers and McGraws, might have a line on Homeworld too. My guess was wrong, but my intuition was right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">You're lying, Moyshe thought. You're editing the past to fit the needs of the present. You knew, and controlled, more than you'll ever tell.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart said, "Mouse found what I needed. He got it out of the astrogational computer of a mindburned raidship captured at Stars' End. He extracted the data and sent it out. Von Drachau was given the attack mission. Judging from the fleet alert, he pulled it off. He's probably on his way home now, likely with a mob chasing him. The pressure should ease for you at Stars' End, Jarl. You might not have to fight your way in after all. You might say we've done you a favor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart leaned back in his chair, grinning at Kindervoort's consternation. "You can't kid a kidder, boy. We guessed what you were up to before you got here. Our agents confirmed what we suspected."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you knew that," Moyshe said, "why haven't you given us any trouble? I'd think you'd jump on Stars' End like... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort kicked him under the table.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Several reasons, Thomas. We're spread too thin already, guarding against their raidships if they get too excited. We've got no feud with you. And you can't do anything but get yourselves killed out there anyway. So why get excited?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi studied the old man. Beckhart <em class="calibre9">was</em> excited. What else was up his sleeve? The theft of the Stars' End weaponry after the Seiners opened the planet?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Had Mouse reported their suspicion that the Seiners could manage it?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Why was the Admiral here, now, instead of in Luna Command? Stars' End would be a damned good reason.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It came down to Mouse. Had Mouse simply yielded to his hatreds and passed on the information about the Sangaree? Or was he still reporting?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort asked, "If you're spread so thin, how could you mount a raid on Homeworld?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It wasn't a raid. It was a wipeout. Let's say the nova bomb disaster wasn't as complete as the news people have been led to believe. Let's suppose a couple of the weapons were taken out before the blowup. Let's take it a little further and speculate that a certain Jupp von Drachau tumbled one into Homeworld's sun."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi snapped up out of his chair, breaking Amy's sudden iron grip on his arm. He stared over Beckhart's head, into cruel vistas of self-condemnation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A whole solar system destroyed!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're insane. You're all insane."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wish you could know how much soul-searching went into the decision, Thomas. I honestly do. And, despite the Four slash Six memo, I don't think the decision would have been made had it not been for the centerward race. Thomas? Come and see those tapes before you judge us. All right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi ignored him. He was back to that failsafer day again. How did Mouse get the manuscript out to Beckhart? Kindervoort had watched them every second. Beckhart's Seiner agents must have handled it while Mouse was holding everyone's attention.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He remembered a Seiner known as Grumpy George. Old George was a coin collector. He and Moyshe had done business several times. George had had a superb collection. He had claimed to have made an outstandingly lucky "blind" purchase during an auction held on The Big Rock Candy Mountain, years ago.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Any truly devoted collector was vulnerable. And George was an obsessive.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">This same George had come to Angel City with the first group of tourists. He had stopped by the office to ask about hobby shops. Moyshe had passed him on to Storm. Mouse had given him a list.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How many hobby shops does the Bureau run, Admiral?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart's eyebrows leapt upward. "Damn, ‘Thomas. But you always were intuitive. Just one these days. Oddly enough, it's right here in Angel City."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"In other words, the place has served its purpose."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart leaned toward Kindervoort. "You see why he made Captain so young?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Kindervoort simply looked baffled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An ulcer that had not bothered Moyshe for a year took a sudden bite from his gut.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Someone pounded on the door. "Mr. benRabi, are you there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come in. What's up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Someone just tried to kill Mister Storm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? How?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was a woman, sir. She just came up and started shooting."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is he all right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. He took off after her. She headed into Old Town."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Old Town was that part of Angel City which had lain under the first settlers' dome. Today it was largely a warehouse district. It was the base of the city's small underworld.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think it's the Sangaree woman?" Kindervoort asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Marya? A grudge like that is the only thing that would set Mouse off," benRabi replied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How could she be here?" Amy demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'd better go dig him out," Moyshe said. "If it's all right with you, Jarl?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's your shift. Do what you want."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy, stay with Jarl." Moyshe told the messenger, "Find me six off-duty volunteers. Tell them to meet me outside my office. Armed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe bent, kissed Amy. "In a little while, hon." He wished he could have been a more loving husband lately. Events had permitted them only the most brusque of relationships.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He caught Beckhart giving him an odd look. A baffled, questioning look.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What did that mean? Puzzled, he went to the door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He paused there, glanced back. Kindervoort and Amy were sipping their drinks, lost within themselves. Poor Jarl. The pressures here were too much for him. He was becoming less and less active, more and more a figurehead. Was it cultural shock?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He would survive. He would make a comeback in his own milieu. He did not worry Moyshe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His concern was the almost magical disappearance of the Admiral while his back was turned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He hated to admit it. He loved that old man like a father. Their relationship had that attraction-repulsion of father-son tension. But he could not trust the man. They were of different tribes now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had to hurry if he meant to stay ahead of Beckhart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was a block from the restaurant when he encountered the first poster. It clung crookedly to the flank of a Marine personnel carrier. He trotted past before it registered. He stopped, spun around. His eyes widened.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Yes. The face of a woman, a meter high, smiled at him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Alyce... " he croaked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Wham!</em> Darkness slammed home. He no longer knew where or who he was. He staggered past the carrier, went down on one knee.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His head cleared. He was in Angel City... He looked behind him. There was a man following him... No. That was last time. Or was it?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a moment he was not sure if he was Gundaker Niven or Moyshe benRabi. Somebody was trying to kill Gundaker Niven...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shook his head violently. The mists cleared. Which name he wore did not matter. Niven. McClennon. Perchevski. BenRabi. Any of the others. The enemy remained the same.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He returned to the personnel carrier. The poster was gone. He circled the quiet machine. He could find no evidence one had existed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell is happening to me?" he muttered. He resumed trotting toward his headquarters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He encountered the second poster fewer than fifty meters from his office trailer. It clung to the side of one of the tents his people used for quarters. He reacted just as he had before. He came out of it clinging to a tree, gasping like a man who had almost drowned. The poster was gone.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Had it ever existed? he wondered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The fragile stability he had constructed with Chub's help was fraying. Was he in for a bad fall?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He clambered into his trailer like a man carrying an extra fifty kilos, dropped into his swivel chair. His heart hammered. His ears pounded. He was scared. He closed his eyes and searched his mind for a clue to what was happening. He found nothing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It had to be this contact with his past. The benRabi personality was not really him. It could not withstand the strain of the milieu of Thomas McClennon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then he noticed the envelope lying on his desk. The envelope that had been attached to the magazine <em class="calibre9">Literati.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stared as if it were poisonous. He tried to back away. One hand stole forward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was from Greta Helsung, the girl he had sponsored in Academy. His pseudo-daughter. It was a grateful, anxious, friendly missive, seven pages of tight script reviewing her progress in Academy, and her continual fears for his safety. She knew that he had been captured by enemies of Confederation. His friends had promised they would rescue him. They would get her letter to him. And this, and that, and she loved him, and all his friends in Luna Command were well and happy and pulling for him, and she hoped she would see him soon. There were several photographs of an attractive young blond in Navy blacks. She looked happy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was also a note from an old girlfriend. Max expressed the same sentiments with more reserve.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What were they trying to do? Why couldn't yesterday let him be?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Greta had such a cute, winsome smile...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He sealed his eyes and fought to escape the conflicting emotions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began to feel very cold, then to shake. Then to be terribly afraid.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36358401" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Fifteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were fifty ships in the exploratory fleet. They had not seen a friend in two years. It was a big galaxy. They were 10,000 light-years from home, moving toward the galactic core, backtracking old destruction.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There had been eighty-one ships at the beginning. A few had been lost. Others had been left at regular intervals, to catch and relay instelled reports from the probe. Most of the ships were small and fast, equipped for survey and intelligence scanning.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The fleet was near its operational limit. Three months more, and the ships would have to swing around, the great questions still unanswered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The advance coreward had been slow and methodical. Still, space was vast and only a fragmentary vision of enemy territory had been assembled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The stars were densely packed here. The night around the fleet was jeweled far more heavily than farther out The Arm. The skies were alien and strange. The worlds were silent and barren.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Where were the centerward people building all their ships? Where did the killing hordes spring from?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Ulantonid explorers had detected convoys heading rimward. They had seen a parade of dead worlds. But they had located nothing resembling a base, occupied world, or industrial operation. They had learned only that the enemy came from still farther toward the galaxy's heart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then, too, there had been the tagged asteroids in the dead solar systems. Huge metallic bodies three to five hundred kilometers long, all similar in composition. Eleven such rocks, marked with transponders, had been located. The Ulantonid specialists had been unable to conjecture the meaning of the tagging.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The probe fleet had established five tracks along which enemy ships advanced out The Arm. Each was a river of charged particles, ions, and free radicals.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Contact was carefully avoided. The mission was one of observation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Remote surveillance of the charged paths showed not only the occasional outward passage of a fleet but the regular back and forth of courier vessels. That suggested the enemy had no instel capability. Which was an important deduction. The allies would obtain a tactical advantage by being able to coordinate their forces over far vaster distances.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The centerpiece of the Ulantonid fleet was its only true ship of war, a vessel which beggared the human Empire Class. It bore the name <em class="calibre9">Dance in Ruby Dawn.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">Humans named their warships for warriors, battles, cities, old provinces, lost empires, and fighting ships of the past. Ulant used the titles of poems and novels, symphonies and works of art. Each race found the other's naming system quaint.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Ruby Dawn</em> carried the liaison team provided by Confederation's Bureau of Naval Intelligence. Those people had been away from home even longer than their Ulantonid shipmates.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Theirs was a grueling task. They had to survey all incoming data and isolate those bits which justified transmission to Luna Command. They had to be diplomatic with their hosts. It was too much for twelve people eleven thousand light-years from the nearest of their own kind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An Ulantonid officer stepped into their working compartment. "Commander Russell? We're getting something that might interest you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell was a short black man built like a tombstone. He almost responded, "We'll get it in a while, won't we? Where's the damned hurry?" He did not. The Blues were so courteous it made him ashamed to think of giving them a hard time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Important?" he asked. The Blues were showing strain too, though they were more accustomed to extended missions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"<em class="calibre9">Song of Myrion</em> reported a strong neutrino source. It didn't look natural. On the other hand, it was two-thirds of a parsec from the nearest star. Control is moving probe ships in from several directions. It was felt that you would want to see the scans we're getting."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course. Of course. Doris, you can get in touch through Group Voice Nomahradine. Lead on, Group Voice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell did not expect anything. The Blues came up with something new twice a week. There was always a natural explanation. But someone always went along. It was part of the get-along policy. Never give the Blues offense. The squabbling and snarling had to be confined to liaison team quarters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A communications officer greeted them with, "We might have something this time, Group Voice." He gestured. Russell surveyed the elaborate and only slightly alien equipment. One huge display pinpointed the probeships involved in the current exercise. They had taken positions on an arc one Ulantonid light-year from the neutrino source. Lines and arrows of colored light flickered in and out of existence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell was astounded. The neutrino source was not a point. The lines indicated that it subtended a half second of arc, vertically and horizontally, from the point of view of each observer. He did some quick mental arithmetic. "Jesus," he murmured. "That's a globe... almost six times ten to the twelfth kilometers in diameter. That's five hundred tunes the diameter of the old Solar System."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Group Voice was equally impressed. "Commander, that's one hell of an artifact."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell scanned the displays. There was enough mass in the region to slightly distort space! The stars behind did not show through.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Could it be a dark nebula?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Too dense."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll take a closer look?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"When it's cleared up top."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whatever it is, it's moving. At a damned good clip."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's what makes us so interested, Commander."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell looked for a spare seat. There were none. The word was out. The place was filled with curious Blues. The Heart Of The Shield, or Fleet Admiral, made her entry. She spoke with her science officers, and included Russell as a courtesy. Russell simply listened. It was not his place to offer his thoughts.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took three days to design a probe mission. A swarm of instrument packages would be placed in the great globe's path, well ahead, passive, hidden on old spatial debris. Care would be exercised so the ships placing the instruments would remain undetected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took three weeks to do the seeding. Another month passed before the globe reached the instruments. During that period scores of couriers were recorded moving to and from the neutrino source. Two convoys swarmed out toward the remote frontier.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Intense examination of space behind the globular revealed it to be the focus of tremendous activity. Enemy ships swarmed through that trailing space. The globular had a cometary tail of vessels falling away and catching up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It looks like the warfleets are clearing the way for this outfit," Russell told his compatriots.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aren't they working a little far ahead? I mean, it'll be thirty or forty thousand years before they reach Confederation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe it's lag time in case the war fleets run into somebody stubborn."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stubborn? They could roll over anything. There're so many of them the numbers become meaningless."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Still, there seems to be a gap in weapons and communications technology between them and us. I'd guess around two centuries. That means we'll kill a lot more of them than they'll kill of us. The Blues think they're frozen into a technological stasis. Their real weapon is their numbers. If they ran into somebody very far ahead of us, they'd suffer. They'd win, but it might take them generations. I'd guess they've been through it before, which would be why the Globular is so far behind the front."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Probes into star systems behind the Globular had shown, for the first time, the enemy actually living on planets. Billions of the little kangaroo people seemed to have been dumped, apparently to rework the worlds to certain specifications. The Ulantonid experts thought they would be taken off after the terraforming was complete.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Yet another puzzle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">More of the little creatures were occupied mining the asteroidal and cometary belts of numerous systems. Operating in hordes, they stripped whole systems of spatial debris.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The significance of the marked bodies had become apparent. The little folk were using that type asteroid as a portable world. The big bodies were mined hollow, given drives, and turned into immense spaceships. Given spin, they achieved centrifugal gravity. Built up in tiers inside, they could provide more living space than any planet. They could grow with their populations.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They must breed like flies," someone suggested. "If they have to devour everything for living space."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Question," Russell said. "The Blues say they leave the planets after terraforming them. Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nothing about these things makes any sense," a woman replied. "I think we're wasting our time trying to figure them out. Let's concentrate on finding weaknesses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Russell suggested, "Knowing why they're doing what they're doing might clue us how to stop them. Anybody think we can do that now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Ruby Dawn</em> was a ship of despair. Hope had vanished. Its crew no longer believed their peoples would survive the coming onslaught.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We need deeper probes," Russell said. "We have to get this far again past the Globular if we really want to know what they're doing. From here it looks like a million-year project to remodel the galaxy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But we can't probe that deep."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, we can't. Unfortunately. So we'll never know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When the first remote instruments were activated by the Globular, everyone in the fleet made sure he or she could examine the incoming data.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Within hours the sight of lines of huge asteroid-ships, stacked tens of thousands high, wide, and deep, killed all interest.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What point to staring into the eyes of doom? Let the watching be done by machines that could not be intimidated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The probe fleet turned toward home, pursuing the sorry knowledge it had sped ahead.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36358684" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Sixteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Six of Moyshe's best men gathered outside his trailer. They had donned nighttime black. They were buttoning buttons and making sure their equipment was in order. Each bore weapons, carried a hand comm, gas mask, and any odd or end the individual thought might come in handy. To a man they were still trying to rub sleep from their eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi leaned against the frame of the door to his office. He was still shaky. "You guys willing to get into a fight to save my friend Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're on, Chief," someone muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's just an immigrant, you know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We wouldn't be here if we weren't ready, Jack."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Another said, "We're ready, sir. He's one of us now. I never liked him much myself. He stole my girl. But we got to protect our own."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A third said, "Klaus, you're just spoiling for a fight,"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So now I got an excuse, maybe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay, okay," benRabi said. "Keep it down. Here's the frosting for the cake. I think the Sangaree woman is involved."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah? Maybe this time we'll do the job right."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I tried before. I didn't get a lot of support."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Won't be nobody to feel sorry for her this time, Captain."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe started, looked the speaker in the eye. He saw no offense was meant. He and Mouse did have brevet-commissions as captains of police, with Kindervoort's regular captain's commission senior. Seiners seldom used their professional ranks and titles.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He grinned. "I think you're all fools," he said. "And I thank you for it. I'll be with you in a minute." He stepped back inside, scanned the current data on number of Seiners on-planet. The count was way down. People did not want to play tourist at night, when most everything was closed. He tapped out a red code to Traffic aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>, meaning something was up and no one else was to be allowed down till further word. He guessed that within four hours there would be no Seiners on The Broken Wings who were not part of the security effort. He stepped outside. "Let's go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They whooped like a bunch of rowdy boys.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They worried Moyshe. They thought this would be fun. He had to calm them down. They could get themselves hurt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He led them aboard a Marine personnel carrier, took the control seat himself. The engine hummed first try. He roared toward Old Town, gears crashing and tracks whining. He was so excited that, for a few minutes, he forgot to cut in the mufflers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Rumbling through empty night streets, he tried to anticipate Mouse. Where would Storm go? That would depend on his quarry. If Mouse lost her, the warehouse important to their first mission would seem to him a likely place to pick up the track again. The Sangaree, always nose-thumbingly bold, or stupid, might be using it again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The warren of tall, crowded old brick buildings pressed in as Moyshe plunged ever deeper into the inky silence of Old Town. The wareshouse district was a nerve-taunting area. The smell of poverty and old evil reeked from every alley and doorway. BenRabi became jittery. He put on more speed. "Almost there, men."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He swung into the street leading past the warehouse he wanted, brought the carrier to a violent, shuddering stop.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A bright actinic flash, that left ghosts dancing behind his eyes, proclaimed nasty business afoot a half block beyond his goal. The old site had not been renovated. The Sangaree obviously were not using it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stand by, men. Looks like we've found him." There was another flash. He eased the carrier over so it would not block the street. "Everybody out. Stand easy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He used a pencil to scratch a diagram on the pavement. He was amazed at how easily the Old Town layout came back. It had been years... "Nick, you and Clair come in this way. Klaus, take Mike and Will and come in from over here. Kraft and I will go straight up the street. Test your comms. Okay. Move out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Bright lase-weapons continued their ineffectual duel. BenRabi and Kraft stalked forward, clinging to shadow, till they spotted one of the duelists.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe studied the fire patterns.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Three gunmen were besieging a warehouse. One man was shooting back from inside. He had skill enough to keep the three pinned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They must have lost somebody already," Moyshe guessed. The besiegers seemed to be in the grip of a crisis of nerve.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they're keeping him pinned for somebody else."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The situation looked a little strange. The man in the warehouse was not behaving like Mouse. Mouse would not waste time sniping. He preferred the attack.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you see?" Moyshe asked. His man was looking around with infrared nighteyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's just three of them. Funny. They look like pirates."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Give me those." Moyshe took the glasses. Kraft was right. The besiegers wore McGraw jumpsuits. That made no sense. This was enemy territory for McGraws.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Could be Mouse inside, though—if they <em class="calibre9">were</em> pirates. They were working with the Sangaree now. Maybe Storm was hurt... Whispering to his handcomm, Moyshe moved teams into position behind each sniper. "Ready? Shoot on my mark. Shoot!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It did not go well. The Seiners did not have what it took to do a man first hand, in cold blood. They allowed a vicious exchange of fire before dropping two of the men. The third escaped only after taking wounds no cosmetic surgeon would ever repair.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And still Moyshe worried. It seemed too easy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was changing. He was hardening into the paranoid hunter Bureau had made of him. He did not recognize the shift right away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All clear, Mouse," he called.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Ozone stench and the smell of hot brick assailed his nostrils. Sudden steam surrounded him, rising from a puddle left by the programed rain of the dinner hour. A quick pair of lasebolts had missed him low and high. He scrambled for cover.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell is the matter with that bastard? Has he gone hyper-bent? Give me that stunner," he snapped at Kraft, who was too scared to move. "He must be hurt bad. Here. Take this." He shoved his own weapon into the Seiner's hands. "Come on. Get yourself together. You've got to help." To the other teams, via handcomm, he snarled, "Draw fire, you guys. And I mean give it to him. I'm going to stun him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A stunning would not please Mouse, but benRabi considered the alternatives even less pleasant.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beams on low setting tickled the ochre brick of the warehouse, bluing the night weirdly. The whole street crackled and flickered and came alive. Legions of shadows danced like spooks at midnight. The return fire became erratic and completely ineffective. Moyshe pinpointed the source, armed carefully, held his trigger stud down. "Get over there," he growled at Kraft.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The stunner's spine-tingling whine continued till several Seiners pushed through the warehouse's street door.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Minutes later, from the window, someone shouted, "You got her, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Her? What the hell do you mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a woman. You got her clean. Don't look like there's any nerve damage."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A stunner sometimes played hell with its victim's nervous system. Death or permanent damage could result. It did not happen often.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is it Strehltsweiter?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. Come on over. She's coming around."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What about Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ain't no sign of him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A woman, he thought as he started walking. What the hell? There were only two women involved in this business. Amy and Marya. The man would have screamed if this were either of them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Sangaree woman was on The Broken Wings, though. Of that he was convinced.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman was leaning out the window, up-chucking, when Moyshe entered the room whence she had been shooting. Her shoulders slumped with defeat. Moyshe watched her from the doorway. She seemed vaguely familiar from behind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chief's here, lady," one of his men said, his tone not unkind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman pushed herself off the sill, turned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Alyce!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The name came out a strangled toad croak.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hammers of darkness pounded his brain. Hands as light as the wings of moths tried to bear him up. A voice asked, "What's wrong, Moyshe?" from several light-years away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Despite the additional impact of seeing the woman in the flesh, the episode ended in seconds. Cold, shaking, benRabi fought for self-control.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She deposited her behind on the filthy window sill. Her breath came in shallow, difficult gasps. Her face remained curiously immobile despite its obvious effort to portray a variety of emotions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Shock? he wondered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He looked inside himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was shocked. Shivering, he tumbled into a dusty old chair, stared at this impossible ghost of a romance past. His thoughts swooped and whirled through a realm of chaos. His soul cried in torment as it had done so constantly during his ancient introduction to the Seiners. All the demons he had thought fettered with his starfish's help were now breaking their chains and howling up from their dungeons. The inexplicable mind-symbol he called the image of the gun flashed in and out of existence like some barbarous neon advertisement for mental disease.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not pass out again. Neither did he regain his emotional feet. He fought what was happening in his head, fending it while trying to analyze.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was something a little changed about all those old spooks. They were not quite identical with their predecessors. Had time eroded them? Helped them grow older and more mellow? What?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe? What the hell is wrong?" Klaus demanded. "Woman, what did you do to him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe heard. He did not respond. What could he do? What could he say? To Klaus or Alyce. He had not expected to see her again, ever, even in the tight social environment of Luna Command. Certainly not out here on the fringes of Confederation, a thousand lights from the scene of their passion and pain. It was too wildly implausible a coincidence... Yet there she sat, as agonizingly real as death itself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He ground the heels of his hands Into his temples, feeling the precursor pain of a savage headache. He gripped his stomach where his half-forgotten ulcer was coming to sudden, unpleasant life. His thoughts churned and sprayed like wild white water. His very brain seemed to be sliding on its foundations. Barriers came crashing down. Viewpoints shifted. If he did not grab <em class="calibre9">something</em> as he whipped past, his soul would be left a fanged wasteland as lovely and desolate as a bombed-out city.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He caught a glimmer of what was happening. He shied off like a whipped dog. He clamped down, shoving a hundred mental fingers into the sodden dikes. If he could just hold on till he found Mouse...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How are you?" Alyce asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her voice was different. It was older. Less musical. More hardened by life.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her question had no meaning. It was just noise meant to break a fearful silence. He did not immediately respond. His men watched him with wonder and uncertainty, uncomfortably aware that they were on the brink of seeing a soul laid bare.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm fine," Moyshe finally mumbled. "How're you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay, now." But she was not. She was shaking violently. It was a common reaction to stunner shock. She would be feeling as cold as he.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why were those men shooting at you?" he asked, trying to gain some stability by concentrating on business. "What're you doing here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was a girl, Thomas. With your hair and eyes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shut her up!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It began to twist and burn. Down deep inside, the dikes began to give. The demons howled and laughed. That insane image of the gun thing superimposed itself over Alyce's face. "Mike!" he gasped. "Take two men outside and keep an eye out for McGraws."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His second desperate attempt to achieve stability failed. The dikes were bulging inward. "Why're you here?" he squeaked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought it was all dead," she said. "I thought I'd forgotten it. But I can't, Thomas. Go away. Leave me alone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Leave her alone? Yes. Fine. But how did he get her to leave him alone?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Lady, the Chief asked a question," his man Nicolas growled. "Answer up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Easy, Nick. No rough stuff. This's personal, not business."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He spoke too late.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not business?" Snake-swift, the Seiner laid a hand alongside the woman's face. The blow hurled her to the floor. He caught her hair as she fell, yanked. She screamed, but her cry did not register with Moyshe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What did was her hair, face, and throat coming away in Nicolas's hand. The Seiner raised his trophy like the shrunken, wrinkled head of a Cyclops. The unmasked woman seemed vaguely familiar, but she was not benRabi's old haunt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, you done been set up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi could not stifle a squeaky little laugh. "I done been, Nick."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nicolas wheeled on the woman. "You start talking. What kind of game are you playing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't bother, Nick. We won't get anything. We don't have the equipment." There were no tears in the woman's eyes now. She showed nothing but apprehension. Moyshe added, "I don't know if it would be worth the trouble anyway."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not need equipment. Despite the chaotic state of his mind, a strong suspicion blossomed. Someone was working on him. He had a good idea who, and why.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Moyshe," another of the men called. "Mike says we got trouble. McGraws. A dozen or so. Out by the carrier."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was regaining his composure. "It was a trap. But it didn't go according to plan." He turned to the woman. "The pirates weren't in the script, were they?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">To his surprise, she responded. She shook her head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You tell the Old Man to get him a better makeup crew. Nick, we've got to get out of here. See if you can get Kindervoort on Tac Two. Tell him I need a pickup squad. We'll let the Corps worry about their carrier."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had cobbled together a false peace within him. He knew it would not last. He had to finish fast. He would begin crumbling again soon. The one straw too many had been thrown into the camel's back. From here on in each period of tranquility would be just one more frantic holding action doomed to eventual failure. The decay would accelerate whenever the survival pressure slackened.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had seen it all before, in fellow agents. He was entering the initial stages of a spontaneous, uncontrolled, unsupervised personality program debriefing. It could get rough. There were so many identities in his background that he could lose his anchor to any of them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What about the woman?" Nicolas asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Leave her. She's not the enemy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe," said another, "Jarl says to meet him by Jellyroll Jones. You know what he means?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. It's a statue in the old park. Pass the word to Mike. He knows the place. Nick, lead off. Keep close, guys." He turned to the woman. "Good-bye." He could not think of anything else to say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She shrugged, but seemed relieved.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They slid out the back way, ran through a block of shadows. BenRabi began to worry about the time. He had been away from his job too long. How much longer? But it looked easy...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There was a shot and a shout.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A second slug ricocheted off brick near benRabi. Cobblestones became arrowheads piercing his chest as he tried to get closer to the soil.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Shades of his last visit to The Broken Wings, he thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His men returned the fire, their lasebeams scoring the brick of the walls of the buildings flanking the alley where the ambusher crouched.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on!" benRabi snarled. "Shoot <em class="calibre9">at</em> him, dammit!" A fourth slug kicked chips of alley and lead into his face. He wiped at tiny pearls of blood, wondered why the assassin was concentrating on him. Was he Marya's man?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Where was Jarl? Where were Mike and his men?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Dammit, you guys, don't you know this ain't a goddamned game?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And where was Mouse, who had started this mess by disappearing? Emotion began to rage through him again, undirected and confused. He tried to control it, failed. His personality program resumed its dissolution. The only anchor left him was a hard, red hot anger.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A foot scraped cobblestone somewhere behind him. He rolled, shot, hit a leg. A man yelped, scrambled for cover.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The gunman with the antique firearm kept booming away. McClennon... benRabi took a second shot at his victim before he got out of sight.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Another shadow drifted into the shelter of a doorway.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe's program ceased its disintegration.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His perceptions reached a high usually stimulated only by drugs. He felt every point and angle of the cobblestones beneath him, seemed to become one with the dampness left by the programed rain. He saw the grey and brownness of stone, the expanding sparks and yellows of another muzzle flash, heard the thud as a bullet smacked brick behind him. He smelled damp and sulfurousness of swamp the atmosphere systems could never completely overcome. He could even taste, it seemed, something salty.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Whoa! That was blood from a chip wound, dribbling into the corner of his mouth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He edged sideways. Four meters and he would be in a position where the would-be assassin would have to expose himself to fire. He made it. The man shot. Moyshe shot back, heard a yelp. His men pursued him in his rush into that alley.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe kicked the revolver away from the would-be assassin. "This clown is as incompetent as you guys. Come on. Get your butts moving before I heat them up myself." He waved his stunner angrily.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were shouts from the alley they had abandoned. He spun, dropped, fired quickly, followed his men. The sting of his flesh wounds drove him like a hunted beast.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Who am I now? he wondered. This isn't like me. I'm not a fighter. Gundaker Niven? Niven was supposed to be a hardcase.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The adrenalin had him on the verge of another case of the shakes. He had been through this kind of thing before, for the Bureau, but never had been able to achieve Mouse's calmness under fire. He always got scared, shaky, and constantly had to battle the impulse to flee.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Maybe that was why he had outlived several Mouselike partners.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But they, too, had been programed to their roles.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was doing well this time, he thought. He was showing flashes of case-hardened calm, and shooting when it was time to shoot. He had not thought himself capable of that.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Where the hell was that idiot Mouse?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After a dozen twists and turns along his journey he slowed, started trying to look like a tourist headed for the Jones monument. His men stalked along behind him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The monument had not changed. It was the same tall bronze statue surrounded by the same small park, its boundary stockaded by imported pines and bushes. Between the trees and the statue there were a dozen lighted fountains where sea nymphs bathed in endlessly falling waters.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The park was the heart of an oasis in the desert of Old Town. Lining the streets facing it were several museums, the Opera, a library, and smart little shops which catered to the wealthy. Among them were homes belonging to some of Angel City's oldest families. The square was a tenacious place. It refused to admit that Old Town's glories had faded. Most decaying cities contained a few such pearls.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36359424" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Seventeen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jellyroll Jones, as great men went, was an accident. He never had been a hero. He came in near the foot of the list of space-age memorables. His most singular act had been that of arriving on The Broken Wings before anyone else. Native school children were taught to consider him a hero, in the mold of a space-faring Magellan, but his myths bore no relation to the truth. His discovery had been sheer happenstance, and against his will. His ship had crashed here because of damage the guns of a Palisarian Directorate police corvette had done his astrogational computer. He and his crew—the women represented by the fountain nymphs—had hidden here for a few months. Unable to take the heat, humidity, and stench any longer, they had radioed for help. The corvette had collected them. Old Jellyroll had died in prison.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe paused in a shadow. He studied the statue and the dancing tips of water columns visible above the trees.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl's on," his comm man told him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe took the hand radio. "Jarl? Where are you? We've got people after us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Be there in five minutes, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi heard strange sounds behind Kindervoort's voice. "What's going on, Jarl?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Roadblock. Trouble with the natives. We're talking them down."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't take too long. We're only a jump ahead."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nicolas, hand comm against his ear, shook his head. "Mike's three blocks from here. Says they might be pulling out. Maybe they read our signals."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jarl, we look okay for now. They're maybe running. We'll be waiting on the north side. You get anything on Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not yet, Moyshe. Out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Out." BenRabi returned the hand comm, studied the park through nighteyes. It seemed peaceful enough. He started toward Jellyroll.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Flash.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Shit. Not again." From the frying pan into the fire twice?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Maybe not. The shot had not been directed his way.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were more shots. Someone was fighting in there. Mouse? It looked like a baby battle, a duel, two men moving between shots. One was armed with a stunner only.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nick, hold on here. I'll check it out." Moyshe trotted toward Jellyroll.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The action seemed to be among the fountains beyond the statue. BenRabi pushed through the trees. He tried to spot the duelists, but they had stopped shooting. Was it over? He slipped toward the statue. Jellyroll would make a good, high observation point.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The firing broke out again. The stunner seemed to be among the far trees. The lasegun was among the fountains. The lasegunner, illuminated by the fountain lights, was moving very carefully.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe climbed three meters up Jellyroll's pedestal, slithered into a prone position between the old bandit's feet. It did make a nice vantage point, but would be hell to get away from fast. He edged forward, trying to spot the duelists.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Though the farther man was in darkness, Moyshe found him first. The nearer remained veiled by the flying jewelry flung up against the ever-shifting colors of the fountain lights. The water susurrated hypnotically as it tumbled back into the pools.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A lasebolt crackled through the branches of a pine. The gentle breeze brought smoky resin scents redolent of evergreen forests. The farther duelist snapped a shot in reply. His face was visible for an instant.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No doubt about it this time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm clutched his left arm as he dodged to a new position. What the hell? benRabi thought. What's the fool doing out here with nothing but a stunner?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's opponent shifted position.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ha!" benRabi gasped. "It is her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Sangaree woman had had cosmetic surgery, but her catlike, sensuous movements remained unchanged. She just could not hide that deadly animal grace.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He tried to draw a bead on her. "Welcome back, sweetheart," he murmured. He was not at all surprised to see her. This was another passage in her death-dance with Mouse and himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She did not know another dancer was about to cut in. He grinned. A fragment of an old personality returned. He became the hard half of Gundaker Niven again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ha!" She was hurt too. Her left side sported a wet, hasty bandage. Mouse had gotten close once, but had missed his kill. Surprising. That was not like him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It said something about how good the woman was.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi got a good bead. He had no trouble shooting. The woman yowled, jumped like a broken-backed cat, collapsed on the colored concrete. Her muscles jerked spastically, then she slowly stiffened into the almost-death typical of a solid stunner shot to the head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe looked down at his weapon. "Good shooting, cowboy. Mouse!" He shouted to make himself heard over the fountains. "She's out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe?" Storm called back. "Is that you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah." Mouse sounded weak. "You hurt bad?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll live."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm came into the open, stumbling toward the statue. He thrust his wounded arm into his jumper for support, carried his stunner like a revolver. He paused beside Marya, stared down. "Checkmate. Finally." His gaze flicked to the statue, back down.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">BenRabi shouted, "What the hell happened? I been running myself dead trying to find you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She sucked me in. Showed herself, took a shot, then ran. I lost my head. I ran right into it." He glanced up again, his expression odd. "But she made a bigger mistake, eh? Let her gut override her brain." Mouse smiled wickedly. His lips stretched in a ferocious duplicate of the woman's vampire grin. "You know the funny part, Moyshe? She was working with McGraws. That's scary when you think about it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse fell silent. He stared at the woman for a long time, as if loath to end the feud.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Though benRabi did not like it, time had proven the next move necessary. She had been given two chances. Twice she had come back for more. If Mouse did not end it here, they would have the hellsbitch on their trail again, all fangs and claws once more.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She and Mouse were two of a kind, Moyshe reflected. Only death would stop either of them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've got to be realistic, Thomas... Moyshe," benRabi mumbled to himself. "What's got to be has got to be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He waited. Mouse remained reluctant. Time stretched.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Personnel carriers rumbled in the street outside the park. Moyshe looked back, expecting to see Kindervoort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Wrong. Marines. But just as good.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Back to Mouse. Was he stalling because he did not have a lethal weapon? He could use hers. Or his hands.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then he understood. Mouse was thinking about his Holy Grail, the hatred that had driven him so long. He would not yet know about Homeworld, but killing Marya would be symbolic of the process he had initiated. Symbolic of attaining his lifelong goal. Jupp would be the weapon... Marya might be the last of the ancient enemy he would encounter.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The end of a road is always a disappointment, Moyshe reflected.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Poor Mouse. Down deep, where he lived, he knew that when Marya went there would be nothing left to hate. His Grail, for all its distant sparkle, was just another empty cup.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where do we go from here, Tommy?" he asked softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In the shadows between Jellyroll's legs, benRabi/McClennon could do nothing but shake his head. He did not know.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Moyshe/Thomas's mind was becoming pandemoniac. The outside pressure was off. There was nothing to hold the dissociation in check. He was this man for a moment, then that. Alyce crawled through his brain like a maggot through rotting flesh. Something within him kept shrieking <em class="calibre9">I want</em>, and not letting him know what. Sudden storms of emotion racked him, always without detectable cause. Anger. Hate. Love. Sorrow. Joy. Despair. A moment of each, whap! like the impact of a fist, then gone, as if some storehouse had been broken open and all the containers inside dumped at random.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wrapped his arms around his head and moaned softly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He croaked, "I don't know, Mouse," it seemed an hour after his partner asked his question. BenRabi wanted to say, "Stars' End, and back to the high rivers," but the other characters inside kept telling him he would never see a harvestship again, would never track another herd, would never again go into Contact, would never build that secret service for the Seiners.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That Alyce creature must have been a hypnotic key, he thought. She was supposed to unlock all the spooks hidden behind the barriers Chub had been unable to penetrate. But the key had not opened the lock all the way. No more than Mouse had back when, when he had tried before their scheduled return to Confederation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Something had shorted out. Something was trying to take him back not just to Thomas McClennon before this mission, but all the way back, to a day when he had not as yet undergone any personality programming.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He did not want to make that journey. He wanted what he had found in the high rivers between the stars. He fought. Deep inside, he howled and clawed like a wild thing tangled in a hunter's net.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were angry shouts in the street whence he had come. The Marines were disarming his men. Ordinary precaution, he supposed. His team had been operating outside its "reasonable jurisdiction."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse made his decision. It favored discretion. He stooped to recover Marya's weapon...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Don't!" The voice was soft enough not to be heard far, yet commanding. BenRabi/McClennon shrank into the shadows of Jellyroll's legs. His Amy Many-Names had appeared. She bore a nasty little pistol. Her features were as cold as Mouse's became when he went into assassin's mind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse looked at her, saw the absence of emotion, slowly straightened. He did not drop his stunner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where's Moyshe?" she snapped. "The grubs will be after him. I've got to find him first. He's suddenly the key to everything. You two never really crossed over, did you?" The words tumbled out of her mouth almost faster than her lips could shape them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse did not answer. He just stared into Amy's eyes, holding them. He clutched his weapon and waited for her coldness to thaw.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Or was he waiting for McClennon? Thomas was not sure. Mouse might be turning his own peril into some kind of test.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon was sure Amy's determination would not persist. She was not trained for it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where's Moyshe?" she demanded again. Her voice rose, squeaked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Here, Love." He eased from the shadows. "Don't move. Please?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her gaze darted his way, noted his stunner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse raised his weapon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No, Mouse. Not my wife, you don't."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stopped. McClennon's tone halted him. He swung his head for a cautious look at his partner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, why?" Amy asked plaintively. Her weapon did not waver a millimeter from dead center on Mouse's chest.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why what, honey?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This betrayal. We gave you everything... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What betrayal?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He could hear the <em class="calibre9">I</em> she was saying inside. She had opened her fortress unvanquishable to him, and now his promises appeared false. He had come to her bearing banners of love, false banners, and had raped and plundered her soul.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He could hear her pain, but hadn't any idea what had brought it on. "What betrayal?" he demanded. "What's happened?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Marines are arresting everybody. ‘Interning them,' they call it. Your Beckhart sent Gruber an ultimatum. We open Stars' End for Navy or he nova bombs the Yards."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">No, McClennon thought. There's something twisted here. Something not quite straight. Not that Beckhart would not make the threat. He would, and would follow through for the sake of the Stars' End weaponry. He was a man who believed in his mission. But the timing seemed askew.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Or was it? The Starfishers and Sangaree were inextricably entangled at Stars' End. Beckhart was free to move against the home ground of either. It was a remarkable opportunity. Earlier, he had gloated about having hit Homeworld's sun...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Damn! Damn! Damn! he thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The agent part of him, the old intuition, put together everything Beckhart had, and had not, said, and threw forth one incontrovertible answer. The Admiral had been after Stars' End from the beginning. From the moment he had summoned Cornelius Perchevski from his interlude with his quasi-daughter Greta...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As Moyshe benRabi it had been his mission to come up with leverage Beckhart could use to force the Seiners to open the fortress world to Luna Command.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had been doing the Admiral's work even when he had thought he was working against the man. Damn! Damn! Damn!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And he did have the lever the Admiral needed. Beckhart had given that away in threatening Gruber.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral needed the location of the Seiner Yards. Mouse must have told the Old Man his partner could clue him in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Gruber would yield to the threat. Not gracefully, but he would yield. No sane man would do otherwise once the fate of Homeworld became known.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Gruber would surrender. The single most commonly known fact about Beckhart was that he was a man of his word with a threat. He would use the bomb if refused. But McClennon was sure the Old Man was running one colossal bluff right now. He could not have the coordinates of the Yards. Three Sky was huge, even if he knew to look there. Insofar as Thomas knew, there were just three people on The Broken Wings who could tell Beckhart what he had to know. Jarl and Amy would not talk. He was in one hell of a tight place. The Starfishers did not call their nebula Three Sky among themselves. McClennon doubted that one in a thousand knew that landside name, and not one in a hundred of those the coordinates for the Yards themselves. Mouse did not know. McClennon had acquired the information entirely by accident, while arguing with Amy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Where's Jarl?" he asked. He wondered how effectively his orders had been carried out after he had alerted the fleet. Well, probably. Amy was carrying on like they were the only red pass people left.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tears rolled as she replied, "He's dead, Moyshe. He killed himself. Only about fifteen minutes ago. I got away while they were distracted."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"While who was distracted?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The military police."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">So. That roadblock had been a setup. And Jarl, intuiting Beckhart's thrust, had gone the only way he could to avoid checkmate.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And Amy intended eliminating another information source. Him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Where was the harvestfleet? Had Beckhart gotten his bluff in on Payne too?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then what would Amy do about herself? Put a lasebolt through her own brain? She was capable. She seemed a bit self-destructive.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What if Beckhart's claims about a centerward race were valid? That meant the whole human race, as well as several neighboring races, were threatened with extinction.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It seemed a lot more than Seiner freedom lay on the line.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The weight of the decision he had to make seemed as heavy as that Atlas had borne. Heavier. Hundreds of worlds might depend upon his choice... Ambergris and the Stars' End weapons. They might make all the difference.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">What to do?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He leaned against Jellyroll's leg and stared at the symbols of the sides of his conflict. Which should he betray? Which should he destroy?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was in his hands alone now, and there was no evading the decision. He could not let it ride in hopes it would sort itself out. No god from a machine would swing down on a wire to relieve him of his burden.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had always had a yearning to become a hero, even for the few shooting star moments Confederation culture allowed. He would become one to the trillions if he delivered Stars' End and its arsenal. He would stand beside Jupp von Drachau, destroyer of Sangaree... But that would make him Iscariot to millions of Starfishers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His fingertips sensually caressed his weapon. There lay all solutions. In the gun. The final argument. In the words of ancient Mao, "All power comes from the mouth of a gun." War and violence, he thought. A certain breed claimed they solved nothing. Those folks ignored the fact that dead men seldom argued.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He remembered a small Ulantonid nun, seen in passing in the Blake City spaceport on Carson's an eon ago, while he and Mouse had been waiting to join the Starfishers. She had served a dead man...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was vacillating. Avoiding decision. Riding a period of stability for all it was worth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One squeeze of a trigger would settle a trillion fates. His friend? Or Amy, his love?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Those symbols remained as motionless as the man between whose legs McClennon stood. They waited too, aware that, for the moment, he was possessed of godlike power.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse had, McClennon was sure, known the ramifications for some time. Perhaps since before the mission had begun. Mouse stared at Amy's weapon, half hypnotized by the death lying there. Death had never touched him...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had been immune for so long...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy was pale and growing paler. She had had time to think, to see some of the possibilities, and to grow scared. Her gun hand quivered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse began moving, almost imperceptibly bringing his stunner a little farther forward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait!" McClennon snapped. "This is silly. There's a way out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They looked at him, their faces grave and baffled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His finger danced on his stunner's trigger. Amy squeaked as she fell. Mouse looked infinitely surprised. Shaking, McClennon peered into the street beyond the trees behind him. The Marines seemed uninterested in the park. Good. If the men just kept their mouths shut...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He scrambled down, collected weapons, stunned Marya again. Her breathing indicated she was partially recovered, and probably gathering herself for something.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had to keep the three of them out of the way while he twisted the Admiral's tail. Maybe he could salvage something for everybody, though Beckhart would resent it all to hell.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But, dammit! It wasn't necessary to have big winners and losers. Everybody could lose a little and win a little and come out ahead in the end.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart would give in if he could not catch up fast enough. He had to have those coordinates soon, or see his whole intrigue blow up in his face.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon laughed. He was going to get the best of the Old Man, and that was as rare as roc's eggs. Still chuckling, he threw Amy over his shoulder and headed for the tight darkness of Old Town.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She would come out of this hating him, but by doing it this way he would give her more than he ever could with love.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He searched his mind for signs of instability. All the gears were in place and working smoothly. Some sort of balance had been achieved. Not a natural one, but one that looked good for a while. He was now a little of everyone he had ever been, and a little more, too.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He hoped it would last long enough.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36359995" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Eighteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell is going on, Damon?" Beckhart's voice had a saw-toothed edge. "Storm and the Sangaree woman were in that park. Storm called to say he was going in after her. McClennon's men admit he went in. You chased the Seiner woman in there. Four people. Where the hell are they now?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, sir," the Major confessed. "We went in as soon as we knew where to look. They weren't there anymore."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No shit? You're aware that three of those people are professionals, aren't you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. And two of them are ours, with no reason to run."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One of them. I'm not sure what McClennon thinks he is. It's not his fault, but he has his head on backwards and it's falling apart. He probably doesn't know who he is or who he's working for half the time. He's the one I'm worried about. He needs psychiatric attention fast."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart massaged his forehead. He was growing a bitch of a headache. Just when it looked like he had it nailed down... He had to snag Thomas or his woman before Gruber called his bluff. He had to show at the Yards before the harvestfleets extricated themselves from the standoff at Stars' End. He had to move before the Sangaree raidfleet learned about Homeworld.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why the hell did that idiot Kindervoort have to go and kill himself?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He evidently had strong feelings."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're a stiff-necked mob. I've never figured them out. That damned Payne is still up there making nasty talk. With three squadrons sitting on his back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just pride talking, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We screwed up, Damon. If we don't find those people, alive, we're had. <em class="calibre9">We.</em> Do I make myself clear?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Abundantly, Admiral. I've got all my men digging. The local police don't have any decent tracking gear, but it's still only a matter of time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The shorter the time, the better, Major. High Command is breathing down my neck. The CSN has a personal stake in what we're doing. He isn't very fond of me. So don't forget that water and horseshit both go downhill."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Message received, Admiral."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good. Get out there and find them. And don't forget that they're professionals."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Marines did not turn up a trace all night. Beckhart spent the time tossing, sharing his cot with a cruel dread.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was afraid the Sangaree woman had gotten the drop on Storm and McClennon and had spirited them out of the city. She had gotten out once before.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Time trudged along. The tension built. He began snapping at everyone around him. "Like a mad dog," he overheard one of his technical ratings say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That hit him like ice water. It made him count ten before speaking. He had an image of himself as a reasonable, fair, and fatherly superior. His pride demanded that he treat his subordinates well.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After thirty hours he locked himself in his tiny cubicle of an office. He drank coffee, gobbled aspirin, and wondered if he was too old to start praying.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Admiral!" an excited voice called through the closed door. "Comm call. Field channel three. It's McClennon, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart slapped his drab Navy comm unit, muffing the channel selection twice. "Come on, you bastard." A moment later, "Thomas? Where the hell are you, son? What's going on? Where's Mouse? You all right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're fine. Mouse is tied up at the moment." McClennon giggled. "All three of them are."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He's gone, Beckhart thought. Cracked completely. "Where are you, Thomas?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Around and about. Right now I'm here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"McClennon... Report to me immediately. In person."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Thomas, the whole damned thing is going down... " What was McClennon up to?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Give me one little thing, Admiral. That's all I'm asking. One thing, and I give you Stars' End on a platter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What the hell do you think you're doing? When did Commanders start bargaining with Admirals?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Captain."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That can be rectified. McClennon, I'm tired and I'm aggravated. Don't give me any shit. Tell me where you are so I can send somebody to pick you up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No sir. Not till I get what I want. I've got something you need. You give me something back. You want to talk about it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll listen, Thomas. That's all." That's all. Had anyone had sense enough to try for a fix on McClennon's transceiver? Probably not. Too much to expect of these people.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's simple, Admiral. I'll give you the coordinates for the Yards after you execute some instrument guaranteeing the Starfishers' independence. Recognize them as an independent political entity. Offer to exchange embassies. Offer mutual non-aggression pacts. All those kinds of things that will make it hard for Luna Command to subjugate them without a big public outcry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Holy shit. You're out of your mind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know it." Beckhart heard McClennon's pain and fear. The man was scared silly. He knew he was on the edge. "It's getting worse. I need help, Chief. But I've got to do this first."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, the answer is no. You know damned well that I couldn't agree to something like that even if I wanted. Which I don't, I don't have the power."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"High Command does. I'll listen on this channel. You let me know when the treaties are ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, you're committing suicide. You're throwing your career away."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Really? You mean you haven't used me up yet?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas... You can't hide from me forever."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can try, Admiral. I can sure as hell try."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, I'm going to have your balls for breakfast... Shit!" He was talking to himself. McClennon was gone.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He hurled a half-finished mug of coffee across his office. The brown liquid dribbled down the wall, onto a stack of memos that had accumulated while he worried.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Someone knocked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Enter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Major Damon stepped in. "We triangulated the call, sir. No luck. He wired a standard Navy comm into a public box and made the call from a public box somewhere else."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I told you we're dealing with professionals. But let's consider the bright side. It's a small city, and he has three prisoners to watch, feed, and keep clean. He'll make a mistake. Storm will jump him. Or we'll find him. Keep looking."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Damon left. Beckhart cleaned up his coffee mess, settled into his chair. He felt better. Almost relaxed. The worst possibilities were, for the moment, no more than ghosts of evil chance.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He made some elementary calculations. The lead time he had on the Seiners if he and they started for the Yards together. Stars' End was eight days rimward of The Broken Wings. The Yards were somewhere back toward the Inner Worlds. How long till a Sangaree courier reached Stars' End with the news about Homeworld?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Sangaree had no known shipboard instel capacity. They communicated by courier exclusively. So his agents told him. So he hoped. The scheme depended on a long news lag and Starfisher stubbornness.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He smiled. If the fastest ship known had left Homeworld immediately after von Drachau's attack... He should have fourteen more days.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, there's no way you can stay ahead of me for two weeks. Not in this burg."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Confidence soon yielded to doubt. High Command withdrew his Marines over his protest. The doubts grew stronger. On day seven the CSN personally called. Beckhart could conceal the truth no longer. He covered for McClennon by declining to name names.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was loyal to his men. Thomas was no turncoat. He was a victim of his occupation and faulty technical preparation. Sooner or later every agent encountered the crisis. McClennon had had the misfortune to hit his at an historically inopportune moment.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Heads were going to roll among the Psych crew! On day eleven Beckhart came to the conclusion that the first head lost would be his own. The CSN kept making sounds like a happy executioner sharpening his axe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come in, Major. I take it you're going to tell me the same old thing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Unfortunately, sir. He's just not leaving any tracks. We did find a cellar this morning that someone had been using, but they were long gone when we broke in. We've covered sixty percent of the city now. We're reasonably sure he hasn't slipped back into what we've covered."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Reasonably sure? Damon, I don't want reasonably sure. I want absodamnposilutely sure."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And instead of sixty local police reservists, I want my battalion of Marine MPs."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What could I do? They took them," he said into Beckhart's scowl. "I see it taking seven or eight days of searching with what we have, Major. We don't have that much time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The probability of contact is going up faster now, sir. He has less room to maneuver. The computers almost guarantee we'll find him within five days. The statistical profile is against him. I've had my people stop using the regular comm nets. He may have been monitoring our traffic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course he was. He's crazy, not stupid. All right. Carry on."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart leaned back, thought, Thomas, I've got to give you credit. You're good when you have to be. And, what the hell is wrong with Storm? He should have done something by now. He knows McClennon better than anybody else. He's the best man I've got.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Was the little bastard in on it? The possibility had not occurred before. Mouse was the perfect agent. You did not suspect his loyalty.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But Storm's loyalty was to his dream of exterminating the Sangaree, of avenging his family. He had no motive but habit for taking a Bureau line in this. And he and McClennon had become close friends. They had done too many missions together...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They might have cooked this whole thing up with that Seiner bitch.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Admiral. The CSN on instel, relay from <em class="calibre9">Assyrian.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh, Christ. Again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He sounds upset."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's always upset. Switch him through."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A moment later, "Good morning, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You found that man yet?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No sir. We're closing in. The computers say we'll have him any time now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've got computers too, Beckhart. And a lot more input resources. I have the Sangaree raidmaster at Stars' End getting the word sometime day after tomorrow. We don't know what those people will do. Maybe go crazy. I've ordered the attack squadrons back off courier intercept. That's hopeless. They'll return to Carson's and Sierra. <em class="calibre9">Hittite</em> is moving up to Blackworld. Two Conqueror Class reserve attack squadrons are moving into the Twenty-First Transverse in case they break through the Twenty-Third. What concerns me more than the Sangaree, though, is what Gruber is going to do when he's free to deploy. I'd guess he'd head for the Yards. From what I've been told, if he gets there ahead of you, we lose. There's supposedly no way we can root them out, and no way to get close enough to deliver the threatened nova bomb. This isn't news to you. I repeat it in case you've lost sight of the facts. Your loyalty to your people is laudable, but... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm aware of the problem, sir. It was my intention to calculate a most probable quadrant and send von Drachau to wait there while I rooted this man out. That would give us a few extra days, added to the lead time we have because of the additional distance from Stars' End to the Yards."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're dealing with a stubborn man, Beckhart. You haven't found him yet, let alone gotten him to talk. You apparently know him. How long can he hold out after you take him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, sir." Beckhart did not like admitting that. It was a question he had been trying to ignore. He had not come out equipped for mind probing. He had not begun to worry about possibly needing the equipment till lately.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why is he doing this?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You mean his motives? I don't know. Faulty Psych programming is what set him off. You might call it induced schizophrenia. Even he's not sure what he's doing, or why. Or even who he is a good part of the time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I suppose you still insist on protecting him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. I don't believe he's responsible for his own actions. I don't want him punished because of technical errors made by the people who prepared him for his mission."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay, Beckhart. This is the word from High Command. Prepare to meet his demands. If you haven't got him in hand by noon Tuesday, Luna Command time, you give him what he wants."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir!... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's the word. We'd rather have Stars' End <em class="calibre9">and</em> the Seiners if we can, but Stars' End is for sure. We won't risk our shot at that weapon technology."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's not subject to debate, Beckhart. It sounds spineless to me, too, and it's my idea. But that's the way it's going to be. If you get hold of him before deadline, we'll reevaluate our position. But only if you get hold of him."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart tried several arguments. None made any impression.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">High Command's position was understandable. The very existence of the race was on the line. But still...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Get me Major Damon," he ordered after the CSN secured. "Damon? Word from High Command. We find him by noon, Tuesday, their time. Or he gets what he wants. Do the best you can."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart leaned back, closed his eyes. He felt tired and old. He went over all the old ground. There must be a way of smoking Thomas out. He just had to look at it from the right angle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But, oh, was it an elusive angle.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36360427" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Nineteen: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse came around first. He saw McClennon sitting a meter away. Thomas wore a grave expression.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse groaned. "Christ! My head. What the hell happened?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I shot you. Stunner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why?" Storm tried to sit up. He could not. He was tied hand and foot.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Aw, shit, Tommy. What the hell? Come on, cut me loose."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's wrong with you, man? I spent four months fixing it so we could get out. I could've left you behind... We bought the mission off, Moyshe. Tommy. With ten thousand percent interest... Damned! My head. Get me some aspirin."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had them in his hand. A plastic cup sat on the dirt floor between himself and Mouse. "Open your mouth. I gave you a little too much. All of you. I had to shoot fast. I don't have your finesse."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon's face settled into tired lines. He had had no sleep. More water dribbled to the floor than passed Mouse's lips.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse swallowed, but too late to avoid the aspirin's sour-bitter taste. He spat. "You'd better explain."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I got backed into a corner, Mouse. I had to make a choice. You were on duty when the Old Man finally got around to laying the truth on the line."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart? Our own fearless leader, who was born without a mouth?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes," McClennon repeated Beckhart's story about the centerward peril word for word.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Did you believe him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He was convincing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's always convincing. That doesn't make him any less a liar. And he's the worst ever born."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon was surprised.. He had thought that Mouse shared his belief in the Admiral's basic honesty.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Still, that little fable would shed a lot of light on all the weird things that have been going on around Luna Command the last four or five years. I never did buy that crap about Ulant getting ready to hit us again. You sure he was telling the truth?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You should have seen his eyes when he described the Ulantonid intelligence tapes. But what really convinced me was when he said they're reactivating the Climbers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No lie?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's straight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wow, What do you know about that?" Mouse shook his head in amazement. It was a difficult task, lying on his side on that filthy floor. "You were going to explain why I'm lying here in this muck tied up so I can't even scratch my butt."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It came to a choice, Mouse." McClennon's voice grew plaintive. "Between betraying Navy or the Starfishers. When I heard Jarl was dead."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't follow you, Tommy. In fact, maybe you don't either. You don't look very stable. I think we'd better get you to a Psych center."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. I can see what's happening to me. Mouse, I can't stop it!" He closed his eyes momentarily. "But I'm holding it off. I have to. Because when Jarl killed himself, that only left two people who could tell Beckhart where the Yards are. And he's trying to bluff Gruber by telling him he's going to hit the Yards if the Seiners don't pony up Stars' End and the harvestfleets. Me and Amy, and maybe you, are the only ones who can give him the coordinates."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't, Tommy. That's one nobody let me in on. They didn't trust me the way they did you. They weren't supposed to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know for sure. I might've left you behind if I had. No. I couldn't have. You know too damned much about Angel City. You would've found me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me what the hell you're doing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to trade Stars' End for the Starfishers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to hide till he gets Luna Command to agree to let the Seiners be. In writing. In public. Then I'll tell him where the Yards are and he can hold them up for Stars' End. That way nobody loses but me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're out of your head, Tommy. You won't pull it off. He's got too much time to find you. And he'll roast you alive when he catches you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. He'll be damned nice to me. He's got to get me to talk. He doesn't have any psych probe gear with him, and he'll probably hold off getting physical for a while... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had made his decision in an instant. Every second since he had been trying to justify it and find ways to make it work. He guessed that he would have to stay missing for a week.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had decided he would not move during that time, except to do a few things that had to be done right away. No movement, no tracks for the hunters to pick up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I got to piss, Tommy. Bad." Mouse examined his surroundings. "Christ! This is the hole where the Sangaree used to hide the refined stardust."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And it wasn't in our reports. What are you going to do, Mouse? Try to jump me first chance you get? Or will you wait it out?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse just looked at him. He had donned his poker face. McClennon wore a half smile when he cut the cords binding Mouse's ankles. "Take your leak in the corner."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"With no hands?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They're tied in front. Or hadn't you noticed?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A tiny smile flickered across Mouse's lips. "You've been hanging around me too long. You're getting too cool."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go do your business."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This place is going to get ripe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't doubt it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was an earthen-floored cellar, already rank and humid.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stumbled as he walked. "Damned legs are numb." He unzipped, leaned against the wall, panted as he urinated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A stunner blast could leave a man debilitated for days.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse finished. He turned. "That's a load off my mind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon let Storm take three steps before stunning him across the thighs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ah, shit, Tommy. Why'd you have to go and do that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Had to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're getting hard, old friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's the company I keep." McClennon looked at the Sangaree woman. She was aware now, and watching with cold gunmetal eyes. He untied her ankles. "Your turn."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She rose and took care of it without a word. She did not complain or seem surprised when he stunned her too.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse demanded, "What the hell is she doing here, anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let's say I'm keeping a card up my sleeve." She and Mouse did not know that Homeworld had been hit. She could be told and released. Her response might make a spectacular diversion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy took forever recovering, and it was with her he had tried to be most gentle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was sorry as soon as she did come round.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her he had not tied. He had thought it unnecessary.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was playing chess with Mouse, using paper pieces on a board scratched into the earth. He did Mouse's moving for him. He was losing, as usual.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Behind you," Mouse whispered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Clothing rustled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He hurled himself aside, rolled, grabbed his stunner, fired. Amy moaned, fell. She dropped the length of pipe she had been about to swing. It scattered the chessmen.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon could barely tie her, so badly were his hands shaking. She remained conscious but refused to talk. Neither Mouse nor the Sangaree woman made any comment</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marya did smile a thin, hard smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The walls seemed to push in. For an instant he was not sure where he was or what he was doing. Then, for a moment, he relived part of his first visit to The Broken Whigs. His name was Gundaker Niven and he and the Sangaree woman were bedmates again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy?" Mouse said. "Tommy! Snap out of it!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That did it, for a few seconds. Long enough for him to see all three captives trying to gain their feet, and Mouse dead last in the race.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Cold calm washed over him. He shot all three. In the head. It was dangerous, for them, but a lot less dangerous for him if he was going into one of his episodes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He went. And became quietly crazy for a while.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was a Starfisher named Moyshe benRabi... A Navy Gunner named Cornelius Perchevski... A naval attaché named Walter Clark... A sociologist named Gundaker Niven... Hamon Clausson... Credence Pardee... Thomas Aquinas McClennon... A boy wandering the cluttered light canyons of a city on Old Earth and getting a stiff neck looking up longingly at the stars.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Exhaustion overcame him. He fell asleep.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wakened before his captives. His grasp on identity and reality had recovered, but all those other men were still there inside, clamoring to be released.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wondered if he would be able to hang on.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He needed Psych attention bad.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His stomach churned and growled. He was hungry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Food was the weak link in his plan. He had not yet obtained any. He would have to risk capture to do so.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He checked the time. Sixteen hours had elapsed since he had spirited the three out of the park. The Admiral would not have panicked yet, he reasoned. It would be awhile before the streets became too dangerous to risk.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stepped down the stunner's output and gave his prisoners' a few more hours worth of unconsciousness. Then he took Mouse's comm and went into the streets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He made his first stop at a used clothing store, a marginal charitable operation a few blocks from his hiding place. He purchased worn, unstylish workman's garb. He changed in an alleyway. He repeated the process in a more stylish shop, and farther away still deposited his Seiner jumpsuit in a collection box belonging to the charitable organization. He worked hard to keep the surly Gundaker Niven personality in the forefront of his mind. When he was most successful he hunched slightly, spoke crudely, and looked too tough to mess with.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He purchased a collection of small tools, then a large woman's wig which he trimmed to a style favored by Angel City thugs. He placed a small bandage on one cheek and a pebble in his shoe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He no longer looked or moved anything like any of the people the Marines were hunting.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mobile patrols were everywhere, astounding the citizenry with their busy-ness, but he was not stopped or questioned. They were seeking a Starfisher.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They would get organized soon, he knew. It would be difficult to evade them then.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Whenever he was safely out of sight, he used Mouse's hand comm to eavesdrop on their radio traffic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were confused. They had four people to find, but did not know which was doing what to whom. Their interest of the moment was to make sure no one sneaked out of the city. After the boltholes were sealed they would launch their systematic search.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wondered if he ought not to let Beckhart stew. The confusion would give him an edge. But no. The Admiral would need time to approach his superiors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He stole an Out of Order sign off a public comm booth and carried it several blocks to a functional booth. He hung it and began making like a repairman.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The gimmicking took longer than he expected. The comm was of local manufacture. He had to figure out the color-coding of the circuitry. Then it became a classroom exercise. He installed Mouse's comm and closed the housing in minutes. He noted the terminal number and departed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Finding groceries required imagination. Home cooking simply was not done. Rich and poor, Angel City's people ate out or had prepared meals delivered. Most food was artificial and recycled anyway. Only a few Terran tropical plants were adaptable to The Broken Wing's atmosphere and climate. No local was gourmet enough to have invested in the genetic engineering needed to adapt a wider range of food plants.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He ended up buying field rations from a swamp dredger's supply house. The saleswoman said he didn't look the type, but asked no questions. The underworld used the swamp for its own purposes. Curiosity could be harmful to a questioner's health.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had no local money left when he returned to the cellar. He had Seiner cash and Conmarks, both of which were negotiable, but did not want to draw attention by spending outside currency. Conmarks were never rare, but still... He searched his prisoners and confiscated their limited wealth. Most of that was Confederation's interworld currency.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They submitted sullenly. No one was talking. He did not try starting a conversation. He gave them another taste of the stunner and returned to the streets.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He found a public comm and called the booth he had jiggered. The handcomm there broadcast what he had to say.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral was not pleased with him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Finished, he patrolled around and rented two small apartments and an office, so he would have somewhere to run if the Marines closed in on his cellar. And, finally, he braved Central Park by night to steal an all-bands tactical transceiver/scanner from the inattentive MPs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He used an old crate for a seat and the cellar wall for a backrest. He closed his eyes and listened as the tactrans scanned the bands. He heard a movement after a while. He opened one eye. Mouse was trying to sit up.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy, you can't keep doing that. You're going to hurt somebody."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon turned the scanner down. "Sorry, Mouse. But I don't have a lot of choice." He leaned toward the transceiver. It was staying busy. His call had stirred Beckhart up good.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">How long would he have to stay lost?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Days passed. He lost track. One moment it seemed only a few had gone by, the next it seemed a lot. Every hour was an eon trudging wearily off into eternity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He thought he was doing well. He had kept three willful, angry prisoners hidden and controlled for days, Beckhart had not caught a trace of him. He had driven his mental problem into a straight jacket...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That jacket was not strong enough.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was somewhere in Luna Command. A beautiful blonde, not more than seventeen, clung to his left arm. She whispered something into his ear. She called him Commander Perchevski. He was supposed to know her. He did not. He wanted to attack her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Another woman took hold of his right arm. She insisted his name was Walter Clark. She wanted to take him away from the blonde morsel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The females released him and assaulted one another. They fought over his name. He kept trying to tell them they were both wrong, that he was really Credence Pardee. Or was it Hamon Clausson? Wasn't he Hamon Clausson that time on Shakedowns? He forgot the women while he tried to locate his ID badge. It had fallen off his tunic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There it was, beneath the edge of the carpet. He yanked it out. A kid with a somber, serious face stared off the card. The kid said, "Gundaker Niven," and grinned viciously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He screamed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were men all around him. Some were a little shorter or a little taller, a little heavier or lighter, but each one had stolen his face. They pummeled one another mercilessly. Whenever one broke free and charged him, the others piled on from behind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He jumped, closed his hands around the nearest throat. "I'll kill them," he gurgled. "I'll kill them all. Then they'll leave me alone."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He fought till he had no strength left. Weary, he fell to the floor. Darkness descended.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He wakened in a dank cellar on The Broken Wings. Three people watched with the cold, hungry eyes of vultures perched over a dying thing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced at his watch. He had been out ten hours. What? They had not jumped him? They were still here? He staggered to his feet, took a step, fell as vertigo hit him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He shook his head hard. The cobwebs broke up. They drifted away. He looked around again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse quietly proffered the stunner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their eyes met. McClennon took the weapon. Mouse did not say a word. He crossed his wrists and offered to be tied again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thomas said nothing either. Nothing needed saying. He retied his friend and sat down to wait.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The hours groaned on,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had not expected it to take so long. How long could the Old Man hold out? Why was he being so stubborn? Giving in would not cost him much. Confederation did not control the starfish herds anyway.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He supposed Beckhart was trying to save a political coup that would help overshadow the Homeworld abomination.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had to move only once to remain ahead of the search. Then the Admiral ran out of stall time.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Von Drachau returned from Homeworld. McClennon caught the news on his scanner. He guessed that it would not be long till the news reached Stars' End. That confrontation would dissolve. Gruber would rush to defend Three Sky.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That old traitor time had turned its coat again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was not surprised when his hand comm crackled and Beckhart came on. "Thomas, are you listening? This is Admiral Beckhart. Thomas, are you listening?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm here. Talk." That was all he said, for fear they would triangulate his position.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, you've got what you want. Personally guaranteed by the Chief of Staff Navy." He paused for McClermon's reply. Thomas did not speak. "Thomas, are you there?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm listening, I said."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You've got what you want. What're you going to do about it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had not thought beyond forcing their acquiescence. How could he get it nailed down, on paper, publicly, without them dragging him into some back room and running him through a psychological grist mill?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll call back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced at his prisoners. He had learned that he could not serve two masters and remain loved by the bondsmen of either. Amy's hatred tortured him mercilessly. And Mouse's anger... But Mouse was helping, if only by not doing anything when he had the chance. He had allowed friendship to obscure duty, had let it make him give the benefit of the doubt.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon would not have made it otherwise.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But Amy... . She refused to see what he was trying to do. She called him Judas.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marya's sullen displeasure he could bear. He had had plenty of practice. Her sultry Sangaree face became a mild, passive, resigned reflection of everything he saw in his wife.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">With Mouse he had no long-run worry. Mouse would get over his anger. He would forgive the treason. They were friends.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">So, he thought. Time to face the Old Man. His wolves will be at the door the second I tell him where...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Admiral? McClennon here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, I don't have much time. You're getting what you want. Can we speed things up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I want someone from the Judge Advocate's there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? You're not being arrested. You're not even being charged. I went to bat for you, son. Just give me the word. Where the hell are you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I want him to witness, not to represent me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Christ. Thomas, you've got my word. That's all I can give you. It would take a week to get one of those space lawyers here. Now, pretty please, will you get organized?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Okay, okay. Maybe Beckhart was right. He was wasting time. And the man <em class="calibre9">was</em> giving his word...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He told Beckhart where to pick him up.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36361061" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Twenty: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Four Angel City police officers came to the door, to escort McClennon to his commanding officer. He was puzzled, but did not ask why they were doing Corps work. He untied Mouse, Marya, and Amy, and said, "Let's go, gentlemen."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He had butterflies the size of owls. They were mating on the wing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The streets were barren. Angel City had become half a ghost town. "Where is everybody?" he asked. He had heard nothing on monitor that would explain this emptiness.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Drafted," one of the cops grumbled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Almost everybody old enough was in the Reserves. It was a good way to pick up a few extra marks. They got called up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This war thing must be getting grim."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Must be," the policeman admitted. "They called up everybody in the Transverse. Navy, Marines, Planetary Defense, whatever. Not only that, they took all the equipment that wasn't nailed down."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The officers were walking their charges to Beckhart's headquarters. McClennon saw very few vehicles. "What about the gang upstairs?" he asked, jerking a thumb skyward.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The heavies? Still there. Let's hope they hold those Sangaree. You and your buddy here, and your Admiral and his crew, are the only military people left here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Guess we do have to take it serious," Mouse said. "The Old Man plays games, but they're not this expensive."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon could not help being startled and disturbed. This general mobilization was a distressing indicator. It suggested that Confederation meant to hurl everything but the proverbial sink into the first passage of arms.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His thoughts strayed to his homeworld. Had Old Earth been stripped of men and equipment too? If so, he had to be glad he was in the Outworlds.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">That madhouse planet would descend into an age of barbarism if the policing divisions vanished. Confederation did not interfere much, but did keep the violence level depressed,</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A blowup had occurred during the Ulantonid War, and to a lesser degree several other times, when the Confederate presence was weak. After settling with Ulant, Luna Command had had to reconquer Earth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When the mailed fist vanished, the cults and movements beat swords from plowshares, eager to settle old scores.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse," he said, "it's a strange world I call home."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Storm read him at a glance. "It won't be as bad this time, Tommy. I've seen some of the standing Mobe plans. They'll do some creative drafting. Something like the ancient press gangs. They'll grab anybody loose and ship them out all over Confederation. They'll scatter them so they don't cause much trouble."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sounds good. Break the whole mess up if they take enough of them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It would tap a big manpower pool. Old Earth didn't contribute a thing during the war with Ulant."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy, Marya, and the policemen all watched curiously.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Even Mouse did not understand Old Earth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Earth was the land of the timid tailor, the world cramped with a people from whom all adventure had been bred. The pioneer genes had departed long ago. The stay-at-homes were, in the opinion of the rest of humanity, the culls of the species. Even McClennon willingly admitted that his fellow Old Earthers were determined to live up to their derelict image.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The average Old Earther would faint at the suggestion of going into space. And yet he could be astonishingly vicious with his fellows...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Savage decadence? That was the way McClennon saw his native culture.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"<em class="calibre9">Lo! thy dread empire, Chaos, is restored;</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Light dies before thy uncreating word... </em>" he muttered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?" Mouse asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"From a poem. By Pope."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned. "Welcome home, Tommy. You're acting like my old friend again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon grunted, grabbed his stomach.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His ulcer ripped at him with dragon's claws, like something trying to tear its way out. He nearly doubled over with the pain.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ulcer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We've got to get you to a doctor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A little while yet, A little while. I can hold out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What're you going to be like afterward?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've got to see it through." Only after he had fulfilled his self-appointed mission would he dare concern himself with tuckpointing the mortar of body and soul.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The weeks of waiting had brought the ulcer back to life. The anticipation had been terrible. He had defied Beckhart before, but never in anything this important.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was terrified. What would the man do? The Admiral was fair, but would not let fairness interfere with his carrying out his own orders.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon tried to banish worrying by studying his surroundings. The few Angelinos in the street seemed subdued. Their auction excitement had been replaced by trepidation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon noted one odd, common piece of behavior. Every Angelino occasionally paused to glance upward. He mentioned it to Mouse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they're worried about the raidfleet."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He, too, glanced upward at times, but not in search of an alien doom. He told himself he was taking last fond looks at a sun. The Cothen Zeven, the prison for military officers, lay almost a thousand kilometers below the surface of Old Earth's moon. Psychologically, it was as far removed from mainstream life as any medieval dungeon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The self-delusion did not take. He was looking for something he had lost, something now so far beyond the sky he would never see it again. Payne's Fleet had taken hyper during the week. His Starfisher surrogate homeland was gone forever.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"In here," said the officer in charge of the police group. He led them through the entrance of a second-rate hotel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart was tricked out full dress. He stood at a stiff parade rest as they entered. His face was corpse-like., Only an almost undetectable tightness of the eyes betrayed the anger pent within him. "Lock the women up," he said tonelessly, staring through McClennon.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy broke down. She exploded, mixing pleading, weeping, and outrage. Marya considered her with obvious disdain. Thomas wanted to hold her, to comfort her. He did not. Trying would only make things worse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A bit of the true Beckhart slipped through the glacial shell. He took Amy's hands. "Be calm, Mrs. McClennon. You'll be headed home in a few days. Unless you'd rather stay with Thomas."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stay?" She laughed hysterically. She got hold of herself, sniffled, "I'll go home." Embarrassed by her outburst, she stared at the raggedly carpeted floor.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Past her, to Marya, Beckhart added, "I think we'll release you, too, madam." He smiled. It was that killer smile Thomas had come to know with Mouse. He saw it only when Marya's people had been done some special injury.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">How we can be cruel, he thought. We're always willing to play petty torturers with our dull little knives.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse understood that smile too. Von Drachau had scored! He seemed to glow. He assumed the mantle of Torquemada. He laughed. The sound of it was a little mad.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He really did it? He broke through?" Storm spun toward Marya. "Let her live. By all means, let her live." He put on a big, cruel grin. Life for her would be crueler than death. She could look forward to nothing but flight and fear and utter lack of hope till a relentless, pitiless enemy finally ran her to ground.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse told her, "Jupp von Drachau, our old friend from our younger days here, visited your Homeworld, dear."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Marya understood. Mouse had taunted her with his chance discovery during their captivity. He had mentioned the nova bomb.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She did not break. She did not give him an instant of pleasure. She simply smiled that hard, gunmetal smile, and promised with her eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Nothing, ever, could more than lightly scar her outer defenses. Not after she had had to watch Mouse inject her children with the deadly drug that formed one of the foundation stones of Sangaree wealth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The police removed the women. There was a long silence. Mouse and McClennon faced their commander. Thomas felt Mouse drawing away, closing up, becoming a Bureau man once again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sit down, gentlemen," Beckhart said. "You'll have to bear with me. I'm a little edgy. The Broken Wings has been rough on me. Mouse, you go first. I want a detailed report."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon's eyebrows rose.. Beckhart was not going to press? What was he up to?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse talked. McClennon retreated into introspection. He wrestled all the doubts he had held at bay since making his decision. The unanswerable <em class="calibre9">want</em> began insinuating sinister tentacles into his soul. He became increasingly confused.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas!" It was the third or fourth time his name had been called.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Your report on the last two weeks. I have to develop a position. You'd better think about what you'll say in your written statement, too. I tried to cover, but I couldn't. Not all the way. You'll have to stand a Board of Inquiry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began with Pagliacci's, lingered over the encounters with the Alyce-faces. He tried to make Beckhart understand that that deception had instigated his determination to scuttle Navy's plans for the Seiners.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That was a mistake," Beckhart admitted. "I've made several classics during this operation. The intent wasn't malign, Thomas. I meant it as a hypnotic trigger. Way back when, before you were supposed to return to Carson's, Mouse showed you a Chinese coin. That was supposed to be your cue. You didn't respond."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That failsafer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He was ours. Yes. Another of my grand mistakes." Beckhart did not apologize for the murder attempt. They were professionals. They were supposed to understand. They were living chessmen playing a giant board. "Luckily, Mouse outguessed me on that one."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon wandered through his tale, trying and failing to elucidate his behavior.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Intellectually, I know what you're saying," Beckhart interjected. "Emotionally, I can't connect. Thomas, I'm one of those fools who actually believe in their work. It may be because that's all I have. Or maybe I never outgrew my idealism about Confederation. But that's neither here nor there. You haven't given me those coordinates."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I haven't seen any guarantees."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, I'll promise you anything. High Command has cleared it. They've published it. We'll make it stick. Even if it costs us a Senatorial Review. We can get around those. But that's something to worry about next month. Right now we need to get a hammerlock on Stars' End."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And then what?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You just lost me, son."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What happens to me?" Does it really matter? he wondered. Who cares?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Technically, you're under arrest till you receive a Board ruling. You put yourself in a spot. You could end up the hero or the goat of this mess. Which one probably depends on how the first battle goes. I'd just as soon forget the whole thing myself. But it's too late. They know about you back at Luna Command."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look on the bright side, Tommy," Mouse said. "They can't legally make you work while you're under arrest. You'll get a vacation in spite of the Bureau."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart flashed Storm a daggers look. "Can the space-lawyer crap, son. The arrest will be strictly a paper technicality, Thomas. In practice you'll be part of my staff till we sort out the Seiners and Stars' End. Mouse, you'll drag around with Thomas and me. As of now, you're his keeper."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon caught a faint taste of life as he had known it before joining the Starfishers. He looked forward to the change. It might keep him too preoccupied to whine about his losses.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Poor Amy...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"First order of business, those coordinates. Then we get Thomas to a Psych team... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A policeman came in. "<em class="calibre9">Marathon's</em> stabilized orbit, Admiral. Her shuttle will be down shortly."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thank you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"<em class="calibre9">Marathon?</em>" Mouse asked. "I thought she was in mothballs."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She was when you left. Nothing is anymore. They're crewing the older ships with Reserves. They're replacing regular Fleet patrols. The initial battle will involve every first line ship we have."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They sent one old cruiser to replace three heavy squadrons?" McClennon asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly, <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> is mine. Intelligence Admirals don't rate. Thomas, are you going to spill?" Beckhart turned to the policeman, who had remained near the door. "Officer, start moving our gear. Sergeant Bortle was supposed to scrounge up transport."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon's immediate concern was that he had not had a bath. Sixteen days of grime, and he had to board a Navy ship?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the program?" Mouse asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"First we bluff the Fishers. Then we move to Stars' End and ride herd on the scientists <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> brought out. They'll supervise the Seiner teams. When I'm satisfied with progress, we space for Luna Command. After debriefing, you loaf till Thomas' Board is over. I imagine Thomas will get hung with a desk. He might even move back to the Line."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How hard will they be on him?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Board will clear him. On psychological grounds. There's precedent. But they'll want him off operations. Which makes sense, I guess. He could be burned out. He might still do commercial or diplomatic work. That wouldn't waste his training. You I don't know about yet, Mouse."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon looked inside himself and could find no remorse over his potential loss of job. He did not like his profession much.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I might retire," Mouse mused. "Captain draws a good pension." Though he smiled, the coals of lost dreams lay banked behind his eyes. He had fulfilled his goals too early in life.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not till after the war, you won't," Beckhart said. "Nobody retires till then. Thomas? Are you going to give me what I need? Do I have to rub your nose in our intelligence tapes first?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. It's Three Sky Nebula. Inside the wedge and pointing toward galactic center, beginning about one a.u. inside. Give me a pen." He wrote a series of numbers on a memo sheet. "There're your jump-in coordinates. From there you go ahead in normspace. I can't give you the route through the junk. People who know it aren't allowed to leave."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Three Sky? Really? I thought it would be way outside our usual sphere." Beckhart's stiffness began to fade. He became the Admiral of old. Smiles and friendship. And willingness to spend a man's life. "The purloined letter thing. That's why ships disappear there." After a pause, "I have things to do before we leave. Meet me in the lobby in half an hour. Ready for space."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Ready for space?" McClennon asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That was a subtle hint, son. Get cleaned up. I'll have a man bring you a uniform. And try to make peace with your woman."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He set a record for bathing, shaving, and shifting to the clean uniform. He had ten minutes left when he finished.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One minute later he entered the room Beckhart was using as a brig. It was just a hotel room without windows, with two guards posted outside its only door. Amy and Marya sat against opposite walls, ignoring one another.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She refused to acknowledge his presence.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He grabbed her chin, forced her to face him. "Look at me, dammit!" For two weeks he had been trying to make her understand. She had refused. He wanted to beat it into her stubborn head. It took an effort to speak calmly. "We're leaving in a few minutes. If you want, you can come with us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She glared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll end up at Stars' End. I thought you might want to join your research team there. Instead of being sent straight home."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Still she glared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you go back with the internees, you'll end up at the Yards. With your mother. I thought maybe you'd want to go where you had a friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She would not say anything.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. Be stubborn." He turned to the door. "Officer? I'm ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe, wait. I... Yes. I'll go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He sighed. Finally. The first yielding. "I'll clear it with the Admiral." A wan smile teased his lips as he left the room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It would be a long journey. Maybe long enough for him to win his case.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart did not like his idea at first.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sir," McClennon explained, "she's best friends with one of the senior Fisher scientists. If we can tame her, she can help sell cooperation. You keep talking about Ulantonid intelligence tapes. Use them to persuade her. We don't really have to turn her, just to open her mind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas... I can see right through you. You don't give a shit about... All right. It's another trade-off. Bring her. But you're responsible for her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell the guards to turn her over to me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go get her, will you? You're wasting time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An hour later, they were aboard the shuttle to <em class="calibre9">Marathon.</em> Mouse was shaking. Beckhart was lost in dispatches that had come out aboard the cruiser. Amy had her eyes closed. She was pale and grim.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon stared at her and mentally roamed fields of might-have-beens and should-have-dones. He had gotten her to admit an intellectual understanding of his actions. And her inability to differentiate between personal and social allegiances.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She could not see his betrayal of her people as impersonal. She wanted his feelings for her to have been an agent's play-acting. Somehow, that would absolve her of complicity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was a self-torturer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Could he criticize her? Or anyone else? He lived his life in a self-inflicted Iron Maiden.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He and Amy had been doomed from the beginning. His program's instability had made him a natural victim for her inadequacies. They had been too much alike. And she too much like the Alyce creature programmed as one of his triggers. Maybe his ideal woman was a Marya, a cold, gunmetal woman armored at the pain points. A woman with whom it was unnecessary to exchange emotional hostages.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Had he changed during this mission? People did, but usually too slowly to notice. He did not trust the changes he saw. Too many might be artificial.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Psychs would sort him out. A small team had come out aboard <em class="calibre9">Marathon.</em> Maybe when they finished he would know who he really was. He was not sure he wanted to know.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36361659" class="calibre10"></div>

  

<div class="calibre5"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre6"><a id="TOC_id36361661" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36361663" class="calibre8"></a>Book Three <br class="calibre7"/></h1>


  <div class="paragraph">STARS' END</div>
  
  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-one: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The lights came on. McClennon, Mouse, and Amy sat in silence. The tapes had been grotesque. Storm finally squeaked, "Admiral... That's really what we're up against?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon peered at Amy. She met his gaze for an instant. "Moyshe," she whispered, "I think I'm going to be sick."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It is," Beckhart promised Mouse. "It's tough to swallow. Even when you're there yourself. All that ruthlessness, for no discernible purpose, only makes it more frightening"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon took Amy's hand. It was cool. She was shaking. "You need something?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll be all right. Just give me a minute."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon turned, "Admiral. I've seen that kind of ship before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What? Where? How?" Beckhart came toward McClennon like a tiger stalking game. He seemed to have caught a sudden fever. A haze appeared on his upper lip. "Where?" he breathed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Seiners have one at their xeno-archaeological research facility. You remember, Amy? I asked if it had been built by an intelligent slug? The one nobody wanted to work."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's right. You're right, Moyshe, It was exactly like the ships in the tape."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me about it," Beckhart said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There isn't much to tell," McClennon replied. "The Seiners found it in the Nebula. They considered it comparatively modern. They found it surrounded by ships left behind by the people they think built Stars' End. The same people who, I think, built the base Darkside. They assumed the ship had been attacked by accident during the Ulantonid War. I said its crew might have been studying the ships belonging to the Stars' End race. That's all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart became thoughtful. "That isn't all, Thomas. There's always more. You just don't know it. Is there a connection? Think about it. Stars' End might be more than just a handy arsenal."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart was talking to himself, not his audience, McClennon smiled. The Admiral was making the sort of random connections that, when they paid off, caused him to be so effective.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, I want you and Amy to talk to Doctor Chancellor's people. They came off the Lunar digs. There might be an angle."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They should get together with Amy's friend, Consuela el-Sanga. She's more knowledgeable than we are."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Fine. Fine. We'll arrange that. Meantime, get your brains boiling. Open them up to unexpected possibilities... Tell you what. We'll have another little get-together after dinner. With them included. <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> brought me some new material. I'll lay it out then."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon caught a bleak note. "Bad, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Worse than you've seen."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart used the evening session to present the report from the Ulantonid deep probe. Afterward, he asked, "Any speculations, people?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The science people were guarded. They wanted more data. McClennon asked, "Did Luna Command run that through the big brain?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. And it asked for more data too. I think it has a human bias built in. It wouldn't accept the numbers. It suggested that Commander Russell be replaced by somebody less inclined to exaggerate."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Looks to me like there's enough data to draw some first approximation inferences. Like, the Globular and war fleets represent an effort to destroy any present and potential sentience. It looks like an effort to eliminate competition and remodel the galaxy for the comfort of one race."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A scientist protested, "You can't draw those inferences. They're anthropocentric. It could just as well be a religious crusade."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?" Mouse snarled. "Don't be ridiculous."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Easy, Mouse," Beckhart said, "No idea is too bizarre right now. The truth is going to be something off the wall. Brainstorm, people. Come up with as many ideas as possible, then winnow them as we accumulate more data. We shouldn't use the facts to build something acceptable. The truth may not be."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The scientists were becoming restive. Beckhart continued, "One unpalatable fact that jumps right out is that they're going to try to destroy us. Add to that their incredible numbers. Add to that the fact that the Globular is forty thousand years away. People, I think we've found us a war that will last forever."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon could not handle the numbers. Forty thousand years? Eight times as long as recorded history? That was one long-term operation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The other side had been involved for the gods only knew how long already. Millions of years?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The oddities of the alien base on the moon's dark side, the abandoned ships in Three Sky, and Stars' End itself, seemed a little less strange when seen in that light. Presuming the mysterious builders had been enemies of the centerward race, their works might constitute a counter-operation of equally cosmic scale. He tried to tote up a picture based on known factors. It did not scan. There were too many questions. What was the role of the Sangaree? What had become of the builders?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse leaned his way. "This is a little much for me, Tommy. I'm just a simple-minded soldier."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon grinned. "I'll go along with the simple-minded." He had spent the afternoon with a Psych team. They had performed wonders. He felt content and optimistic.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse was out of sorts. He had come off The Broken Wings moody and uncommunicative. The definitive proof was that the science team boasted several attractive women. None had yet been honored by the swoop of the eagle. Amy had mentioned it in one of her friendlier moments. McClennon had not noticed it himself.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You going to be in the mood for a game after this?" McClennon asked. Mouse had not shown much interest in chess lately, either.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't think so. What's going on?" A petty officer was whispering to the Admiral.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart announced, "The Sangaree just left Stars' End. They left the McGraws to the Starfishers." He smiled. "Looks like the incidence of piracy may fall off."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What will they do?" McClennon asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We don't know. Let's hope they give it a good think. I left Strehltsweiter with a message for her bosses. Maybe Homeworld will make them listen."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What kind of message?" Mouse demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I told them to change their ways. I said I'm not interested in wiping them out, but I will if they don't shape up. I told them I could repeat the lesson at Osiris if they insist. I let her think we know where Osiris is, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Do you?" Thomas asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. I lie a lot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For the next week McClennon split his time between the Psych and scientific teams. The Psych sessions bled the pressure off his chaotic mind. Gradually one personality—McClennon—took hold. He suffered only one minor episode.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> dropped hyper off Three Sky. Signals from von Drachau's <em class="calibre9">Lepanto</em> indicated that she and her escort had penetrated the Yards. There had been a few skirmishes, but nothing serious. The Starfishers were talking, but stalling.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral observed, "Gruber is trying to fox us. He's sitting tight at Stars' End. Know what he's doing? Betting to an inside straight. He's thinking, if he can pull some of those weapons out quick enough, he can turn the tables on us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart thereupon demonstrated his proconsular power. He contacted the Seiner leadership, told them the time. He designated it as launch minus twenty-five hours. He ordered the channel kept open and the countdown broadcast at five-minute intervals. Incoming traffic was to be recorded and otherwise ignored. Requests for delays and further negotiations consequently fell on deaf ears.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At launch minus two hours twelve minutes the Seiners of Three Sky surrendered unconditionally. Fleet Marines began occupying key installations immediately.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart summoned McClennon. "Thomas, we've finished twisting their arms here. Find your lady and ask her if she's going or staying. We space for Stars' End in one hour."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. Sir, I just came through Communications. The Sangaree raidfleet is still headed for Homeworld."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Good. We'll be able to release a few squadrons, then." His eyes went glassy. "The big strike is getting closer. The Blues have picked their spot. We're waiting till the other side walks into it. Find your lady."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy was easily found. She would not leave her cabin unless dragged. He knocked. "It's McClennon," he said. "The Admiral sent me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She seldom talked to him unless under pretext of business.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What does he want?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're spacing for Stars' End. You want to stay here, or go along?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They gave up?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They didn't have much choice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She sighed. "Moyshe, I try hard to understand what's happening. But I can't. Do you think he'll keep his word?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I really don't. We'll find out the hard way. He'll leave people here to establish the new order. I wish I could find out what their instructions are. What are you going to do? You have to decide quick. We're ready to leave."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to Stars' End. Consuela is out there. They made her head of the whole team."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well, good for her." He did not depart immediately. She refused the opportunity he offered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It keeps right on hurting, he thought as he stalked along the passageway. She won't even try to understand.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After relaying Amy's decision, he went looking for his partner.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He found Mouse in the wardroom, staring mindlessly into a holovision cube. He sat, "What's the matter, old buddy? Want to talk?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Reluctantly, Mouse killed the holoshow. "Not yet, Tommy. I'm not ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. You noticed that little blonde Lieutenant from Weapons? Tanni Something."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"From B Missiles? Primo stuff. Looks like she'd turn a man every way but loose. There's something about the little ones... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They say she's a Scorpio."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse laughed. "You didn't fix me up, did you?" Mouse had been known to opine that Scorpio women were the hottest in the known universe. McClennon could not get him to elucidate the workings of a geocentric astrology transferred to Outworlds skies.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not exactly. I asked a few questions. I figured the answers might pique your interest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm interested. That little bomb is ready to go off. You can tell just by the way she moves. Blow in her ear and you're liable to start something five guys couldn't handle. But I'm also not interested. If you know what I mean."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. I don't. You've been celibate for a month. I thought I'd see entropy shift into reverse first."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I got things to work out, Tommy, Can we drop it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If you want. We're heading for Stars' End." As if to back him up, the ship's hyper alarm sounded</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I heard they finally gave in."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now all we've got to do is impress Gruber."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Old Man will find a way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He always does, doesn't he?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy, what do you think our chances are?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Our chances of coming through this thing with these centerward creatures."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We'll never know, Mouse. It's going to go on for a long time. Our great-grandchildren's great-grandchildren are going to be fighting this war. And it's a sad thing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sad? How so?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It may destroy us. As a race. I don't mean destroy like wipe us out. I mean put an end to what makes us what we are. I've been thinking about it a lot. You know how I get."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You think too much." Mouse smiled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The human race is crazy, see. No two of us are alike. And when we form up in mobs, no two mobs are alike. We're always flying off in a skillion different directions. Everybody doing their own thing. Every culture, too. And that's a survival trait, I think. There's almost a Darwinian thing with cultures. Some die out, and others come to life. There're always some on the way out and some on the way in. The thing is, there're always a lot of different ones around. When one goes down, there's always another there to take its place."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not following you," Mouse said in a slightly amused tone. "What's that got to do with anything?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look, this centerward race... To fight it we're going to have to pull together. Generation after generation. Like an anthill. We're going to turn into a warfare race. Our whole focus will be the struggle. Kids will be born to a system that will turn them into the best soldiers possible. If they're survivors, they'll work their way up and get old in harness. They'll have kids of their own, who will follow in their footsteps. After a few generations nobody will know there's any other way of life. And then, in a way, we'll be just like the things we're fighting. The diversity will be gone. And we'll be trapped in a dead end. Because every culture is a dead end eventually. I mean, what does a warfare society do after it polishes off its last enemy? Turn on itself?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse looked at him askance. "You do worry yourself about some strange things, my friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think it's a valid concern. I think we should start taking the long view now and try to retain all the diversity we can."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So write a report suggesting a study."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I think I will."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It won't matter much when they wipe us out, Tommy. And from where I sit, that looks inevitable. All we can do is delay it. That'll be like trying to keep the river from getting to the sea by bailing it with a teacup."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe. Maybe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The ship shuddered. It seemed to twist away around them. <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> was on her way to Stars' End, that legendary, inviolable, virgin goddess of a fortress world that had intrigued a half dozen races for countless centuries.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36362103" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-two: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> dropped hyper ten days after departing Three Sky. She cruised norm thirty hours before being joined by the heavy squadrons from The Broken Wings. Beckhart was afraid Gruber might still need convincing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There're a hundred harvestships there," Amy protested. "You know how big they are, Moyshe. Plus all the service ships. What makes anybody think a few dozen Navy ships could whip them? The whole Sangaree raidfleet couldn't."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I hope you don't have to find out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse explained, "These ships were built for that kind of thing, Amy. All they can do is destroy. Especially the Empire Class. Other ships. Orbital fortresses. Cities on the ground. They were built to chew them up. What you Starfishers have is a bunch of ships built to do other things. Their guns were hung on them as an afterthought. Your harvestships were put together in jumbles, just growing, never designed for any special purpose."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I still think you're all overconfident."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Both Thomas and Mouse shrugged. McClennon said, "You could be right. We're supposed to believe we're invincible." He glanced at Mouse. "Maybe that's why this centerward thing is so oppressive. It shakes our faith."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were in <em class="calibre9">Marathon's</em> wardroom. Most of the science team were there too. The countdown to hyper drop had declined past the ten-minute mark. People with no duty assignment had gathered to look at what McClennon called a thirty-first-century war god.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">An untouchable world. A dead metal machine voice that shrieked against the big night, threatening anyone who came near. Stars' End. The arsenal of yesterday, more securely defended than the virtue of any medieval virgin.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't need to worry," McClennon said. "If there were any chance of trouble, we wouldn't be sitting around here. We'd be on battle stations."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Weapons people aren't on alert," Mouse said. He was staring at a small blonde woman wearing Weapons insignia over her Lieutenant's stripes. "Watch how she moves, Tommy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon smiled. "I think he's coming around. The tomcat is coming through."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse reddened slightly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Jesus," McClennon said softly. "You? Embarrassed?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Tommy. It seems like I've changed a little. I don't understand myself."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"One minute to hyper drop," a remote voice announced. It drowned in the chatter of the wardroom.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart and the chiefs of the science team stalked in and took seats near the holo globe that had been set up at the compartment's center.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Looks smug, don't he?" McClennon said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The wardroom fell silent, <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> dropped hyper. In moments a featureless ball filled the holo globe. Surrounding details appeared as the ship's sensors picked them up. First came the escort vessels, then the harvestfleets, then vistas of lifeless wreckage left by the fighting with Sangaree and McGraws. The planet, though, showed no changes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had seen it before. He was not amazed. The builder race had removed any topography Stars' End may have had. It was a world machined smooth.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like a big-ass cue ball," Mouse murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It doesn't look so friendly when it opens up," Thomas said. He shuddered, remembering. "It gets what looks like a sudden case of acne... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Someone sat down beside him. At the same moment he saw a Communications messenger whisper to Beckhart and pass a flimsy. What was it? he wondered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Commander McClennon?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced to the side and found himself face to face with the little blonde Weapons officer. "Yes," he gulped, taken aback.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hi, I'm Tanni Lowenthal. Weapons." She wriggled her diminutive derriere a centimeter closer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse chuckled. Thomas turned. Storm's attention seemed inalterably fixed on the holo globe. As was Amy's, though color was climbing her throat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What can I do for you?" Thomas asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nothing. I just wanted to meet you. Someone said you were you, so I thought I would introduce myself. You're famous, you know." She laid a hand on his. It was small and hot and felt strong. He nearly jerked away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse made a small sound again.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's really strange, isn't it?" the woman asked. "Stars' End, I mean."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Very. Especially when it's in a bad mood."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. That's right. You were here before, weren't you? When you were with the Starfishers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The conversation lasted only a few minutes. The woman abruptly said, "That's my cue. Off to the salt mines. Bye." She squeezed his hand and looked him directly in the eye for a second.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Bye." Baffled, he looked around to see what had happened during his distraction.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart, apparently, had announced something. He had missed it. "What was that, Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Seiners have it open already. We can send our people down right away." Storm was fighting laughter. He nodded toward Tanni's departing figure. "That's what you get for asking questions, Tommy. The word gets back."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy glared into the globe. Her jaw was tight. Her face was red. Smoke seemed about to pour from her ears. "How did that half-witted sex machine ever earn a commission?" she demanded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Still grinning, Mouse said, "She's probably quite competent at what she does."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't doubt it a bit. She looks the type."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse made a little wave signal to tell McClennon to make himself scarce. Amy was ready for a scene. A scene she had no right to make, inasmuch as she had declared her relationship with McClennon void.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon rose and moved nearer the Admiral. When he had a chance, he asked, "Will I be able to go down? Just to poke around?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart looked thoughtful. "I suppose. It seems safe. They've been down for a week and nothing's happened. But wait till the science people are all down. Ask Amy to see me in my office later, will you? I think I've got a liaison job for her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir." He wandered back to Mouse and Amy. Storm had calmed her down. He was still grinning.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy, I think I'll take you up on that game you've been talking about. You see a table?" The new was wearing off. Ship's crew were drifting out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Over there, Amy, the boss wants you to come to his office when you get a chance."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He and Mouse pushed through the crowd and seized a pair of table seats. Mouse produced his portable chess set.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wish you'd wipe that smirk off your face. Makes you look like an idiot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I can't help it, Tommy. It's really funny, the way she zeroed in. Isn't she something?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No doubt about that. I'm wondering what."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I couldn't decide if you were going to attack her right there or have a stroke. You can find out what, you know. She told you who she was and where to find her. Now it's your move."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Science team people began descending to the planet next working day. The afternoon of the same day witnessed the arrival aboard of a company of stone-faced Seiner dignitaries. Mouse and McClennon were assigned to make them welcome. Amy turned out to help.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse asked, "What's that you're wearing?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My dress uniform."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What dress uniform?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"My police uniform. Your Admiral had it flown over during the night."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon observed, "I didn't know you had one. I've known you a year and a half and never saw you wear it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's where we went wrong, Moyshe. We spent all that time hiding."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He expected a difficult, delicate afternoon. He did not argue. "You may be right." He scanned a list on a clipboard. "How many of these people do you know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She scanned it too. "Only a few, by reputation. Gruber. Payne. They're all Fleet and Ship's Commanders."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Over a hundred names were on the list. "Mouse, we can't give them all honors." He glanced at the sideboys waiting to pipe the visitors aboard.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No shit. It'd be tomorrow before we finished."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy had seen enough of the back and forth of senior Navy officers to know what they were talking about. "Don't bother," she suggested. "We don't do that kind of thing. They wouldn't know what it was. Just be polite."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse went to talk it over with the chief petty officer in charge of the sideboys. McClennon stood with Amy, studying his list in order to avoid eye contact.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You look good in that uniform," she said softly. "All those medals... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Beckhart likes to hand them out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You'll get another for this business?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Probably."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe... Something I should tell you. When I said we were hiding from each other... I was hiding from you. And fooling myself. The reason I was so eager to throw a net on you... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He glanced at her. She was showing a lot of color. "Yes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's embarrassing. I don't like myself very much when I think about it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Well? I don't like the things I've done, either."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was the Ship's Commander's special agent. I was supposed to keep an eye on you and report to him. Because he wanted to make you into the head of a Starfisher secret service. That meant you were going to be important. I wasn't important. I wasn't ever going to be. The only way I could have gone any higher was if Jarl died or left <em class="calibre9">Danion</em>."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon saw what she was trying to say. "It's all right. I understand. And now I know why you did so many things I thought were strange."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Forget it. We've got pain enough. Don't drag up any old stuff."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A red light came on over the lock housing. The ship-wide address system announced the arrival of the visitors' shuttle. It admonished all hands to remain courteous and helpful in every circumstance. The lock cycled. A great burly bear of a man stepped inside. He looked around as if expecting to be assaulted by the legions of the damned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Gruber," Amy whispered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Get him, Mouse," Thomas said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Me?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You got more balls and more suave than me." Mouse introduced himself as Captain Storm of Admiral Beckhart's staff. He introduced Thomas and Amy, then asked the Fishers to follow them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sideboys stood at superb, perfectly matched attention while the Seiners disembarked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Marine sentries at the wardroom door were military perfectionists too. They snapped to present arms. Admiral Beckhart was waiting inside. He wasted little time introducing himself, or excusing himself for having assembled them virtually at gunpoint. He presented the Ulantonid tapes. While they ran, Mouse and McClennon passed out copies of the known data on the centerward threat. Amy distributed copies of the tapes. The lights came up. Beckhart said, "Gentlemen, you've just seen the reason for our unfriendly behavior. I'll now answer any questions. Doctor Chancellor, Captain McClennon, Captain Storm, and your own Lieutenant Coleridge will also speak with anyone who likes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon was amazed by the reserve of the Seiner leaders. Even the worst tape scenes cause no stir. They remained obstinately uncommunicative.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> Ship Commander isolated Amy. They fell into heated discussion. The others asked only a few questions while Amy's interrogator worked, then conferred with Payne and Gruber.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Fishers ignored Storm and McClennon completely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Replying to a Gruber query, Beckhart said, "We'll be completely open with the available data. In accordance with High Command directives, you've received copies of almost everything. The centerward race threatens all of us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon told Mouse, "Ever notice the Old Man's split personality? He's three different people, depending on who he's talking to."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse smiled. "We all are. More than three, usually. He's just obvious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think they're buying it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Payne's people are. Most of the others aren't, Gruber looks like he'll give us the benefit of the doubt." He picked lint off his dress black tunic. "We're victims of our reputation. They can't believe we're being straight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Gruber proved willing to listen. That willingness extended the session for hours. Stewards came in, set up tables, served a meal.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Gruber finally seemed satisfied. His sub-chieftains began filing out, following Mouse to the lock.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy walked with McClennon. Starting at the desk, she said, "I'm going back to <em class="calibre9">Danion</em> now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe... I'm sorry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I am too, Amy. About everything. I never wanted to hurt you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stay happy, Moyshe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She was the last Seiner into the lock. Mouse turned to McClennon. Thomas nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse ordered the lock cycled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Think it went over?" McClennon asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know, Tommy. I don't... Tommy? What's the matter? Chief, help me here. Stretcher. Somebody get a stretcher."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The episode was McClennon's worst yet. It took the Psych team three days to bring him out.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It had surprised him completely.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36362570" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-three: 3050 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't think you should go, Thomas," the Admiral said. "Let Mouse handle it. Suppose you had one of your attacks?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'll be all right. Look. Ask Lieutenant Corley. She says it'll take a week to reach another crisis point."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Somebody has to look over their shoulders, right? Otherwise we won't know if they're getting anywhere. That's just the way those people are. They're not going to say anything till they're sure nobody can shoot them down. Scientists would rather be dragged through the streets naked than be wrong. If Tommy goes, we'll have twice as many eyes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. Thomas, you know the woman who heads the Seiner team. Talk to her. Take a recorder. I want to hear what she says."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Twelve hours later McClennon and Storm, accompanied by a pair of Marine sergeants, entered the cold metal halls of Stars' End. The dock ring of their landing bay was a good twenty kilometers below the featureless planetary surface. The plunge down the long, dark shaft had been harrowing. Mouse had lost his supper.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Marines began horsing an electric truck off the shuttle.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse walked along a steel passageway, away from the dock ring. He peered into what had to have been Ground Control in an age gone by. "Tommy, come take a look in here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had to stoop beneath the passageway ceiling. He joined Storm. "What?" He saw nothing but a Marine sentry.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"By that console thing."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh. A skeleton."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The reports said bones could be found throughout the fortress. Thousands of skeletons had been encountered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We're ready, sir," one of the Marines said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon snapped a picture of the bones. "All right. Mouse, let's hit Research Central first."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right. We'll probably get everything there anyway."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Be charming. Consuela el-Sanga looks vulnerable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Am I ever anything else?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The little truck streaked through the endless halls, down ramps, around perilous turns, ever deeper into the metal world. The Marine driver fled on as if being pursued by the shades of the builders. He shuddered visibly each time they encountered one of the skeletons. They passed through one chamber where a score of the builder folk had died.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The bones that have touched and shaped our lives," Thomas said. "From afar, like virgin princesses."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You getting poetic again?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I do when I'm depressed." He glanced at the Marines. They stared forward impassively. "And this place is depressing." The soldiers seemed to have come out of a robot factory. They had shown no reaction to the Admiral's tapes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The driver's suicidal rush was the only evidence that either man was disturbed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The truck swooped into a level with ceilings vaulting a hundred meters high. Brobdingnagian machines crowded it, rising like the buildings of an alien city. There was life here, and light, but it was all machine.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wonder what they are."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Accumulators for the energy weapons," Mouse guessed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Some of them. Some of them must be doing something with the air."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Look!" Mouse squealed. "Sergeant, stop. Back up. Back up. A little more. Look up there, Tommy. On the fourth catwalk up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon spotted the androgynous little machine. It was busy working on the flank of one of the towering structures. "A maintenance robot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yeah. All right, Sergeant. Go ahead."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They descended more levels, some as high-ceilinged as that of the robot. They saw more of the mobile machines, built in a dozen different designs.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Obviously, only the builders had perished. Their fortress was very much alive and healthy. Storm and McClennon saw no evidence of breakdown.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's like walking through a graveyard," Mouse said, after their driver had had to wend his way across a vast, open floor where hundreds of skeletons lay in neat rows. "Chilling."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Know what, Mouse? I think this is really a pyramid. It's not a fortress at all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're not serious."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why not? Think about it. Can you think of any strategic reason for putting a world fort out here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sure."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Such as?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Right over there are the Magellanic Clouds. Sic somebody on me willing to spend a few hundred millennia conquering the galaxy and chasing me, and I'd build me an all-time fort across my line of retreat before I jump off for a friendlier star-swarm."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Now who's getting romantic?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Romantic, hell."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They could just go around it, Mouse."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That centerward mob don't go around anything. They'd just stay here till they cracked it open."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe you're right, but I'm going to stick to my theory."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They reached the research center a few minutes later. McClennon located Consuela el-Sanga almost immediately, and found her completely free of animosity. He was surprised.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why?" she asked. "I'm no Seiner. I'm just one of their captive scientists."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know." He introduced Mouse. He wondered if Consuela had heard from Amy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe... That wouldn't be right, would it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"McClennon. Thomas. But call me whatever's comfortable."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thomas, this is the most exciting time of my life. We can finally compare notes with your people... It's like opening up a whole new universe. Come on. Let me show you what we're doing." Her walk had a youthful bounce despite the higher than Seiner-normal gravity.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse's eyebrows rose questionably. McClennon shrugged. "Come on. Before she changes her mind."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A horde of people were at work in a nearby chamber, where hundreds of folding tables had been arrayed in long rows. Most were burdened with artifacts, papers, or the tools of the scientists and their helpers. To one side technicians were busy with communicators and a vast, waist-level computer interface.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela explained, "The people at the tables are examining and cataloging artifacts. We brought along several thousand laymen to help explore. Whenever they make a find, they notify comm center. We send an expert to examine the site. The confab over there is an ongoing exchange with your Lunar dig people. The people at the console are trying to reprogram Stars' End's master brain so it can deal directly with human input."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You found a key to the builder language?" Thomas asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. That will come after we can talk to the computer."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You just lost me. That sounds backwards."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It works like this: The starfish commune with the machine. They relay to our mindtechs. The mindtechs relay to our computer people. They build parallel test programs. Communications send them down. Our computer people here try to feed it back to the master brain. The starfish read the response and feed it to the mindtechs again. And round the circle. The idea is to help the computers develop a common language. So far we've only managed a pidgin level of communication. We think we're on the brink of breakthrough, though."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Math ought to be a snap," Mouse said. "It's got to be the same all over the universe. But I can see how you'd have trouble working toward more abstract concepts."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Unfortunately, we're using a non-mathematical interface," Consuela replied. "The starfish aren't mathematically minded. Their conscious concept of number is one-two-three-many."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thought you said they were smart, Tommy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Consuela said, "They are. But theirs is an intuitive rather than empirical intelligence. But we're making headway. When our computers can link... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Be careful," McClennon admonished. "Be very, very careful."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This is the boss machine, right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So the fish say."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Okay. That makes it big and powerful. It might be playing games with you. It's insane."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on," Mouse protested. "How can a machine go crazy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I do know I was in Contact during the first battle. I got a little direct touch. It was plain out of its micro-electronic mind. I'd be afraid it could use its capacity to seize control of my own command computers."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's right, Captain. Thomas, we know. It's a real problem. Most of the starfish are riding herd on its psyche. Only a few are helping communicate. It seems to have several psychological problems. Loneliness. A god complex. A deeply programed xenophobia and bellicosity... It is, after all, the directing intelligence of a weapons system."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A defensive weapon," McClennon suggested. "Mouse laughed at this. But think about it. Is Stars' End a pyramid?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't understand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm going to wander around," Mouse said. "Don't run off without me, Tommy,"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I won't. By pyramid I mean it serves the same function as Old Earth's Egyptian pyramids."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A tomb? I don't think so. The idea isn't new, but it's been mostly a metaphor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Assume the builders knew... You don't have all the data." He explained about the centerward race and his suspicion that the builder race had been fleeing it. "Okay. They come to the end of the road. There's nowhere to run, unless they jump off for the Magellanic Clouds. I think they gave up. I think they stopped, built themselves a pyramid, put their treasures inside, and died out."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Miss el-Sangra smiled. "A romantic theory that fits the known facts. And a few you've conjured up, I think. Ingenious, Thomas. I suppose we'll be able to answer you when we complete contact with the master control."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A boyhood incident came to mind. He had discovered—independently, so far as he could discern later—that A squared plus B squared equaled C squared. He had been excited till he had explained it to a friend. The friend had laughed and told him that Pythagoras had crossed the finish line thirty-five hundred years ahead of him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He felt the same deflation now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I hear you and Amy broke up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes. I didn't realize you knew."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She called yesterday. She was very depressed about it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She took something personal that wasn't."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That was the feeling I got. Her story was one-sided, but I got the impression you were trying to do what was right for everybody."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I tried. I don't know how successful I was."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You two shouldn't have gotten involved in the first place. Landsmen and Seiners don't speak the same language. I've been with them thirty-six years and I still have problems."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"We were both looking for something. We were too eager to grab it."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I've been through that, too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Help her, will you? I never meant to hurt her."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I will. And don't feel so guilty. She's more resilient than she pretends. She likes the attention."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you were friends."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"She was a lot more than a friend for a while, Captain. Till she met Heinrich Cortez."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey, Tommy!" Mouse bore down on them like a mini-juggernaut. "Come here." He about-turned and steamed a reverse course.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Excuse me, Consuela." He chased Mouse down. "What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stopped. "I just talked to a gal who's doing the same thing for the Fishers that we're doing for Beckhart. She was pissed. These clowns, some of them, have been here for ten days. The Fishers have eight thousand people down already. And they haven't even started looking at weapons systems. They don't even care. All they want to do is collect broken toothbrushes and sort old bones."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They'll get to it, Mouse. You've got to give them a chance to let the new wear off. And they've got to get a dialogue going with the master control. If they manage that, it'll save time. In the long run. The machine can redesign the weapons for us. That would save ripping the old ones out of here, orbiting them, then building ships around them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse calmed himself. "Okay. Maybe you're right. But I still don't like to see <em class="calibre9">everybody</em> doing something else when weapons are the reason we're all here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What if the weapons technology requires other preexisting technologies?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Go back a hundred years. Build me a pulse-graser with the technology available then. You couldn't do it. You'd have to create the technology to create the technology to construct the pulse accumulators. Right?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sometimes I don't like you a whole lot, Tommy." Mouse grinned. "I'll tell the Seiner lady to be patient."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If the Captains will excuse me?" The senior of their Marine custodians approached them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Sergeant?" Thomas asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Admiral's compliments, sirs, and he needs you back aboard ship immediately."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What is it?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He didn't say, sir. He said to tell you it's critical."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse looked puzzled. McClennon was very much so.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The news hit the busy chamber before they departed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The starfish had had a brief skirmish with sharks. Hordes of the predators had appeared. A continuous stream were still arriving.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Holy shit!" Thomas said. "I'd forgotten about them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They didn't forget us," Mouse grumbled. "Damnation!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">People swirled this way and that. The mood approached panic. Doctor Chancellor rushed over. "I heard you're going up. Take this to the Admiral, just in case." He shoved a folder into McClennon's hands. "Thank you." He dashed toward the team working at the computer. They were trying to prepare an instantaneous shutdown of the round-robin should the sharks attack.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They should tell the idiot box to scrub the problem for them," Mouse said as they pulled away. "What did he give you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"His notes. They look like a cross between a journal and regular scientific notation."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Give me some of those."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Their driver flew around worse than he had coming the other direction.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Here's an interesting one," Mouse said. "No furniture."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The exploration teams haven't found any furniture. There goes your pyramid theory."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's right. I didn't see anything but machinery. The bodies are all laid out on the floor."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe they're invaders too?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon shrugged. "Here's one that will grab you. How big do you think Stars' End is?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Uhm... Venus size?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Close. Earth minus two percent. But the planetary part is smaller than Mars. The rest is edifice."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"His word. I'll give you the question. Since most of the structural volume would be hollow, how come the place has so much gravity? It's a couple points over Earth normal."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse sneered. "Come on, Tommy. Maybe it's the machines."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nope. You're going to love it. According to this, the builders, before they started building, took a little planet and polished it smooth. Then they plated it with a layer of neutronium. The fortress structure floats around on the neutronium, which may be a cushion against tectonic activity."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Whoa!" Mouse clung to the truck as its driver made a violent turn. "How did they stabilize the neutronium?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Figure that out, and how they mined it in the first place, and you and me will get rich."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's the kicker?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He doesn't have one here. I think it's implied. I didn't see anything at the Lunar digs or Three Sky that would suggest that level of technology."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"So the little people <em class="calibre9">are</em> interlopers. Just like us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe." McClennon had an image of Bronze Age barbarians camped in the street of a space age city.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Keep talking. I don't want to think about the fly up."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A Navy Lieutenant awaited them at <em class="calibre9">Marathon's</em> ingress lock. "If you'll follow me, sirs?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral awaited them on the bridge. "Ah. Thomas. I was beginning to wonder."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Is it critical, sir? We haven't slept for ages."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's critical. But the Seiners say it doesn't look like it'll break right away. Rest up good before you go over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Over?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm sending you to <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> I want you to go into link and give <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em> and <em class="calibre9">Prussian</em> a fire control realtime."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You have got to be kidding."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why? My calculations show them capable of cleaning up that little mess out there. It's a chance to show Gruber what can happen if he gets tricky."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Point. Sir, you're over-optimistic. Sharks are super deadly. They throw anti-hydrogen when they get mad. Second point. Why me? A Seiner mindtech could do the job, and probably better. They're better trained."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I want you. I don't want some Seiner who'll adjust the data to make us look bad."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I have to go?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's an order."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Then make it another ship. I'm liable to get lynched aboard <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em>"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"<em class="calibre9">Danion</em> is Gruber's choice. That's the ship we know. He has secrets too."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks a lot. Sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stage-whispered, "The ship's Legal Officer would back you if you want to refuse. You don't have to work when you're under arrest."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I got troubles enough without getting the Old Man mad at me. Madder at me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart glared at Mouse. "You're going with him, son. Head bodyguard. Take your two Marines. Tommy, if it will make you more comfortable, stay with the Psych people till time to go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I will."</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Danion</em> had not changed—except there were no friendly faces aboard now. Amy met them at the ingress lock. A squad of grim-faced Security people accompanied her. She installed the party aboard a convoy of small vehicles.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">People spat and cursed as they passed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tell me something," Mouse said. "How come everybody knows we're here?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"This isn't Navy," Amy replied curtly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You keep on and I won't make love to you anymore." Mouse laughed when she turned to glare at him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Easy, boy," McClennon said. "We've got to get out of here alive."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Something thrown whipped over their heads.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Did you see that?" Mouse croaked. "That was Candy... She wanted to marry me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Amy, have you shown people those tapes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What tapes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The centerward... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse nudged him. "I smell a little political skulduggery, old friend. A little crafty censorship. Old Gruber is afraid he can't keep people cranked up if they find out what's really going on."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're not to discuss that," Amy said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned. "Oh! The Saints forfend! Never, my dear. What are you going to do about it if I do?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I saw Consuela yesterday," McClennon said, heading them off.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Amy softened. "How was she?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Twenty years younger. Happy as a kid loose in a candy store. She's hoping you'll come down."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You went?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yesterday. It's interesting. But I don't think we'll get as many answers as questions."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The convoy entered Operations Sector. A huge door closed behind them, isolating them from the rest of the ship. Mouse wondered aloud why. No one answered him. McClennon's former tech team, Hans and Clara, awaited him. Their faces were not friendly, but were less inimical than any he had seen outside Operations. Clara even managed a smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Welcome back, Moyshe. You even get your old couch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Clara, I want you to meet somebody before we start. You never got the chance. This is Amy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Clara extended a hand. "Amy. I heard so much about you when Moyshe was with us."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon removed his tunic, handed it to Mouse. The Marine sergeants considered the couch and its technical stations, posted themselves to either side, out of the way.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contact room had fallen silent. People stared. Obviously, no one had been warned that Contact expected visitors.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thomas settled onto the couch. "Clara, I'm not sure I can do this anymore."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You don't forget. Hans."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans said, "You let your hair grow, Moyshe. I'll have to gum it up good."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Haven't had time for a haircut since we hit The Broken Wings." He shuddered as Hans began rubbing greasy matter into his scalp, and again when the youth slipped the hairnet device into place. A moment later the helmet devoured his head.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"There's a fish waiting, Moyshe," Clara said. "Just go on out. And good luck."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">TSD took him. Then he was in the starfish universe.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Stars' End was a vast, milky globe surrounded by countless golden footballs and needles. The three Empire Class warships became creeping vortices of color. They were at full battle stations already, with their heaviest screens up. Golden dragons slid across the distance, orbiting well beyond the ships.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And beyond the dragons, against the galaxy... "My God!" he thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He saw great shoals and thunderheads of red obscuring the jeweled kirtle of the galaxy. The sharks were so numerous and excited that he could not discern individuals.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes, Moyshe man-friend. Will attack soon," a voice said inside his mind.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chub!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hello. Welcome home. I see by your mind many more adventures lived, Moyshe man-friend. I see doors opened where once shadows lay."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What in heaven... You've changed, Chub. You've become poetic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Windchime laughter tinkled through his mind. "Have been so lucky, Moyshe man-friend. First a spy linker who taught jokes, then a she linker filled with poetry."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon felt the starfish reaching deep within him, ferreting through the hidden places, examining all the secrets and fears it had not been able to reach before. "You remember fast, Moyshe man-friend."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">On cue, an outside voice said, "Linker, Communications. We have an open channel to <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em> and <em class="calibre9">Prussian</em> Fire Control. Please inform us when you're ready to begin."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Fear stalked through McClennon. The starfish reached in and calmed him. "I'm ready now," he replied.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He listened in as <em class="calibre9">Danion's</em> communications people closed their nets and linked with the dreadnoughts. He heard the chatter as the Navy and Seiner fleets went on battle alert. From his outside viewpoint he watched screens develop around the Navy ships. The two giant warships began creeping toward the shark storm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sharks sensed the attack before it arrived. Suddenly, they were flashing everywhere, trying to reach their attackers and the ships behind them.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon felt the flow from Chub go through his mind into <em class="calibre9">Danion.</em> He saw the response of <em class="calibre9">Assyrian</em> and <em class="calibre9">Prussian.</em> Their weapons ripped the very fabric of space. Sharks by the hundred died.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And by dozens and scores they slipped past and hurled themselves at the massed ships around Stars' End.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In ten minutes space was aglow from the energies being expended. And ten minutes later still McClennon began to feel bleak, to despair. When he recognized the mood's source, he asked, "Chub, what's the matter?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Too many sharks, Moyshe man-friend. Attacking was mistake. Even the great ships-that-kill of your people will not be able to endure."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon studied the situation. Space was scarlet, yes, but he saw no sure indicators of defeat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Still, starfish could intuit developments before even the swiftest human-created computer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began to see it fifteen minutes later. Whole packs of sharks were suiciding in the warships' screens, gradually overloading them. They were doing it to every ship. Near Stars' End at least a dozen vessels were aflame with the fire that could burn anywhere, as anti-matter gasses slowly annihilated the metal of their hulls.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It got worse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe?" Clara's voice seemed to come from half a galaxy away. "You've been in a long time. Want to come out?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. I'm doing fine."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're thrashing around a lot."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's all right. It's grim out here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A driblet of fear was getting past Chub's sentinel effort. The starfish himself was in a state of agitation. His kind were being slaughtered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It got worse.</div>
  <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre9">Prussian</em> was compelled to withdraw. The sharks redoubled their assault upon <em class="calibre9">Assyrian. Hapsburg</em> picked up the realtime link and replaced <em class="calibre9">Prussian.</em></div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Navy squadrons fared better than did the Starfisher harvestfleets. Their fire patterns were virtually impenetrable.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">From somewhere, a voice screamed, "Breakthrough! Breakthrough!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon did not understand till much later. At the moment he thought it meant the sharks had managed their victory. It was not till Chub began exulting that he realized the tide had turned.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sharks were turning on themselves, pairing off and fighting to the death in ponderous, savage duels. Winners searched for new victims. Here and there, a few began to flee.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Within half an hour the only red to be seen was that fading from fragments of dead shark. Space was aboil with the activity of the scavenger things that followed the sharks. Chub kept giggling like a teenager at a dirty joke. "We do it one more time, Moyshe man-friend. This time when impossible. And in grand style. Grandest style possible. Will make bet. Herd and harvestfleet will have no trouble from sharks again for age of man. So many died here... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe?" Clara said. "Still okay? I think we should bring you out. You've been under a long time."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A sadness came over McClennon. For an instant he could not identify its cause. Then he knew. Chub was sorry to see him go. The starfish knew that this time it would be forever.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know what to say, Chub. I already said goodbye once."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub tried a feeble joke. McClennon forced a charity laugh.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so good?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Not so good. Remember me, Chub."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Always. The spy man from the hard matter worlds will remain immortal in the memory of the herd. Stay happy, Moyshe man-friend. Remember, there is hope gainst the world-slayers too. The Old Ones tell me to tell you so. They are remembered from other galaxies. They have been stopped before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Other galaxies?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They come to all galaxies eventually, Moyshe man-friend. They are the tools of the First Race, the hard matter folk of the beginning. They do not grow old and die. They are not born as you, but in machine wombs from pieces of adults. They are created things. They do not reason as you. They know only their task."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon felt the starfish struggling with concepts alien to the starfish mind. There was an aura of the extremely ancient in what the creature was trying to tell him. Chub seemed to be translating very old mood lore into the relative precision of modern human thought.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They scourge the worlds that they might be prepared for the First Race, Moyshe man-friend. But the First Race is gone, and not there to take the worlds, nor to end the work of their tools. They were gone before the birth of your home star."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who built Stars' End? Do you know?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The little hard matter people, as you thought. Those whose bones you found. They were enemies of the First Race. They won that struggle, but still run from the tools of their foes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"But... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Chub knew his questions before he thought them. "They are old, too, Moyshe man-friend. They flee, and the killers-of-worlds pursue. This is not the first time they have passed through our galaxy. You do not know Stars' End. It is old, Moyshe man-friend. Older than the stones of Earth. The enemies of the world-slayers are but a ghost of what once was. They perish in flight, and decline, and always they leave their trail of traps for their foes. The herd knew them of old, Moyshe man-friend, in other ages, when the galaxies were young and closer together and our fathers swam the streams arching between them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You're getting poetic."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The moods mesh, Moyshe man-friend. The moods mesh."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Moyshe? You'd better not stay much longer." Clara's voice was more remote than ever. He began to feel her urgency.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Linker? Communications. We're breaking lock."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Linker, aye. Chub, I... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Coming to you, Moyshe man-friend. You will remember."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The starfish's message puzzled McClennon. He would remember what?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Something hit his mind. It was an overpowering wave. Panicking, he yanked upward on his escape switch. "Chub... My friend... " were his last screaming thoughts before the darkness took him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Pain!</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Overwhelming pain, worse than any migraine. His head was pulling itself apart.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He screamed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hold him!" someone yelled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He writhed against restraining arms. Something pierced his flesh. Warm relaxation radiated from that point: The pain began to lessen. Soon he could open his eyes and endure the light.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Get back!" Clara snapped at someone. "Moyshe, how do you feel?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Like death warmed over. Over."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Though she looked relieved, she growled, "I told you to come out. Why didn't you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chub was telling me about Stars' End, End. About who built it, and about the centerward race. Race. It was important. Important."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You pushed it too far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Give me another shot. Shot. I'll be all right. Right. How's the battle coming? Coming? What happened, anyway? Anyway?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Hans held his arm while Clara gave him the second injection. The pain receded. It became a slight irritation over his eyes, like a sinus infection.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They made the breakthrough with the Stars' End master control, Moyshe," Hans said. There wasn't the slightest animosity in the youth now. "You held them long enough. Once it found the key, it broke our language in seconds. It saw our problem. It did whatever it did about the sharks."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What did it do? Do?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stepped around where he could look into McClennon's eyes. "We were hoping you could tell us. You were out there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I didn't know what was happening. Happening. One minute we had no hope. Hope. The next minute the sharks sharks had been hit by a hurricane or something. Or something."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The Empires didn't do so hot, eh?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They did magnificently. Better than all of Payne's Fleet Payne's Fleet did during the first battle. Battle. I think Gruber Gruber will be properly impressed. Impressed. There was just more there there than anybody expected. Expected."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse frowned at him. He asked Clara, "Why is he doing that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I don't know. I've never seen it before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why am I doing what? What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Echoing yourself."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What do you mean? Mean?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How soon can we move him?" Mouse asked.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Any time," Clara told him. "But he should stay here. Our medical people know how to handle mindtech problems."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No. The Admiral wants him right back. Come on, Thomas. Feet on the floor. Let's see if you can stand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"No problem. Problem." He was weak, but he could get around. Why were they all looking at him that way?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He began to remember.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He told me I would remember. Remember."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Who told you?" Mouse asked as he guided McClennon toward the door and conveyances waiting outside.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chub. The starfish. Fish. I'm beginning to. To. Mouse, I've got to see the Admiral. Admiral. I'm remembering everything the fish know about the centerward race and their enemies. Enemies." He turned. "Clara. It was good to see you again. Again. Hans. Be a good fellow. Mind your grandmother. Mother." He reached with his right hand. Surprised, Hans shook it.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Of course, Moyshe. Good luck." He glanced at Clara.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman said, "Good luck, Moyshe. Maybe you'll surprise us again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon smiled weakly. "I hope not. Not. No more battles, anyway. Way. Mouse. Let's go. Go."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was driven by anxiety. He wanted to report what he had learned before the memories slipped away.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse stopped to talk to Amy before he boarded the shuttle. "Take care of yourself," he told her. "And be happy. What's happened wasn't your fault. You could say it was fate."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know, Mouse. But that doesn't make it hurt any less." She smiled wanly. "Greater destinies? It's probably for the best. Sorry I was such a bitch."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse shrugged. "No problem. Take care."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Take care of Moyshe." Mouse looked at her strangely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"He's your friend, but he's the husband I'm going to remember." She leaned close, whispered, "Promise not to tell him till he's past the worst part. We've got a baby on the way."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's a promise. He doesn't need that on his mind too." Storm backed through the hatchway, waved, turned, found a seat. For a time he was too amazed to be disturbed by the fly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon sat opposite him, beside one of the Marines, writing furiously.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36363812" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-four: 3051 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Contemporary Scene</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Defender Prime of Ulant gave the order. The Climbers left their mother ships. Pursuit destroyers moved to positions in reserve-and-chase, ready to pounce on any courier or fugitive fleeing the battle. The Empires and Conquerors and their Ulantonid, Toke, Khar'mehl, and aChyfNth equivalents began to move. The cruisers, frigates, and bombards formed their holding screen. A gnatlike swarm of singleships put on inherent velocity preparatory to a lightning pass through the enemy, spewing energy and torpedoes and collecting to-the-minute intelligence for the Defender's master battle computers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The centerward people were unsuspecting. Even the folk they were attacking had no idea that help had come.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Years of Ulantonid staff planning had gone into this action. It was their game. For the first time ever Confederation personnel were accepting orders from outside commanders. Even the Warriors of Toke set aside their pride and accepted direction from leaders more knowledgeable than they.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Twelve sovereign governments of five races were represented in the Allied fleet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Climbers materialized amid the enemy force. They expended their munitions stocks before their foes could react. They returned to their mothers to rearm.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Seconds later the singleships dropped hyper.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took a special breed to fight the one-man scout ships. Egoists, solipsists, men convinced of their own invulnerability. Men who could not be intimidated by the knowledge that they had virtually no defense but speed and violent maneuverability.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The singleships streaked through the centerward war-fleet, spewing their hunter missiles and flailing with their lone nose-mounted energy beams. For some speed proved a liability. There were so many enemy vessels, shifting in confusion, that there were collisions.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Data flowed to the computers of the Allied fleet. The size, disposition, orientation, vectors, and velocities of enemy units began to appear in the huge displays of the Defender's command and back-up command vessels. Ships and installations belonging to the race under attack were identified and tagged friendly. Enemy command ships were identified and targeted for special attention by the next Climber sortie.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The General Staff of Ulant had planned thoroughly and well. There were no unpleasant surprises.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The heavies closed and began pounding a technologically inferior enemy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The advantages were all to the Allies. All but one.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were outnumbered a hundred to one.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They were a single-minded folk, those centerward creatures. When unable to fight a ship any longer, they took to their shuttlecraft and tried to land on the planet. The handful who reached the surface looked for something to kill, and kept at it till something killed them. Aboard ship and on the ground they had only a limited concept of tactics.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tactics were unnecessary when the only strategy needed was the application of overwhelming numbers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They seemed unacquainted with fear, and constitutionally unable to retreat. They simply fought and died and let someone else take their place.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The only ships to leave the battle were couriers departing at ten-hour intervals.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The pursuit destroyers handled them, as well as couriers coming in.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">One by one, Allied warships were destroyed or injured beyond any capacity to continue fighting.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At hour forty of an action originally projected to endure about one hundred hours the Defender Prime instelled Ulant. She expressed her fear that her command was insufficient to fulfill its mission. Effective losses: twenty-four percent of commitment. Current estimated active ratios: 70-1 in the enemy's favor.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Her figures did not take into account displacements. Her ships were concentrating on the more important and dangerous enemy vessels. A significant percentage of the remaining ships were lightly armed troop transports.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The centerward people stubbornly insisted on devoting strength to their assault on the planet.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Defender's pessimism was not unwarranted. Her one-hundred-hour report showed the Allied fleet over fifty percent neutralized. All missile stores had been expended. Breakdowns were claiming the energy weapons. She had lost the use of the last of her Climbers. Her crews were drained by exhaustion.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She disengaged.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The enemy ignored her departure. They closed ranks and continued their disrupted planetary assault.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Defender received instructions to stand off and observe. Confederation was sending reinforcements. Convoys bearing munitions and repair spares were in space.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">In the end, after a month of brutal fighting, the last centerward warship was annihilated. The Allied fleet returned home, to lick its wounds and reflect on the savagery of the encounter. The Defender departed without contacting the planets she had saved. She wanted no replacement enemy fleet finding any information on the mysterious rescuers.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A great victory, by numbers. A huge slaughter. But a Pyrrhic affair. The carefully husbanded and prepared strength of the Allies had been decimated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At least four more warfleets were moving out The Arm. Nothing, really, had been won, except the knowledge that such a monster force could be overcome. The victory did not fill the several high commands with joy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It simply unleashed an even more grim foreboding of things to come.</div>
 

<div id="TOC_id36363964" class="calibre10"></div>

  <div class="paragraph">Twenty-five: 3050-3052 AD</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Main Sequence</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon had been relating his memories for months. "Christ, Mouse. I'm sick of it. Why can't people be satisfied with the deposition tapes?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse moved a pawn, trying to initiate a trade. "Because it's so damned fascinating. It's like meeting somebody who can wiggle his ears. You want to see him do his trick. I can't help it either. I wish I could get inside your head. Man, remembering what the galaxy looked like before Old Sol was formed... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon refused the trade. He moved a knight to support his own pawn, glanced at the time. "Four hours. I'm beginning to dread it. They'll do the whole debriefing routine. For two years of mission. And they'll stay on me about my starfish memories till they know the whole physical history of the universe."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse glanced at the clock too. <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> would be dropping hyper soon, preparatory to decelerating in to Luna Command. "Debriefing doesn't excite me either. On the other hand, we'll get to see a lot of people we haven't seen for a long time. They'll all be changed."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Maybe too much. Maybe we won't know them anymore." McClennon tried to focus on his friends in Luna Command. Max would be older. Greta would be a different animal. He might not recognize her now.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His thoughts kept fleeing to the memories. He found something new each time he checked them. They were intriguing, but he could not shed the disheartening parts.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There were not just five warfleets coming out The Arm. There were eighteen. And the galaxy was infested by not one, but four Globulars. He could not console himself with the starfish view that, in the long run, the enemy was never entirely successful. He did not care that this was their third scourging of the Milky Way, that life always survived, and that sometime between the grim passages, over the eons, new intelligence arose to contest the world-slayers' efforts. He could not be consoled by the knowledge that the enemy would not reach Confederation in his lifetime.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">If there was a God, He was cruel. To have allowed the creation of such all-powerful, enduring monstrousness...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Chub thought he was giving me a gift," McClennon said. "He knew I was curious about the past. And he knew his species had information we wanted. It was a gift of despair. It just showed us how hopeless the whole thing really is."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't say that. You're down too far."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Why do you say that?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You told me the fish said they can be stopped. That it had been done before. The Stars' End people were working on it when the plague got them."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They were working on us, Mouse. Trying to breed some kind of killer race of their own."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse shrugged. "Hi, Tanni."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon glanced up into laughing green eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse suggested, "Why don't you take my friend for a walk? He's down again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The woman laughed. "That's what I had in mind. Or would you rather play chess, Tom?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon grinned. "Let's flip a coin... Ouch! No fair pinching."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Come on, you. I've got to go on station in an hour." She undulated out of the wardroom.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Wait till Max gets a look at that," Mouse said.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Hey. She better not. Not ever. Hear? The fireworks would make the nova bomb look pitiful."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse laughed. "I'm looking forward to it, old buddy. I can't forgive you for snagging that before I did."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You can't win them all, Mouse." He hurried after Tanni Lowenthal, Stars' End, the mission, starfish, and centerward enemies forgotten.</div>
  

  <div class="paragraph">He spent a month in the bowels of Old Earth's moon. The mind-butchers demolished his soul and on its foundations rebuilt to saner specifications. The first three weeks were horror incarnate. He was forced to face himself by mind mechanics who showed no more compassion than a Marine motor pool man for a recalcitrant personnel carrier.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They did not accept excuses. They did not permit stalling. And even while he slept they continued debriefing him, tapping the incredible store of memories given him by Chub. They were merciless.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And they were effectve.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">His sojourn among the Seiners had mellowed his memories of the cold determination of his Navy compatriots. He had come in unprepared. He was less ready to fight the reconstruction.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It went more quickly than his doctors anticipated.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When he was past crisis they opened him up and repaired his ulcerated plumbing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He was permitted visitors on day twenty-nine.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Two at a time," his nurse protested. "Just two of you can go in."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Disappear," Mouse told her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes sir. Captain. Sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse was nearly trampled by two women. He dropped his portable chess set. Chessmen scattered across the floor. "Oh, damn!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Greta plopped her behind on the edge of the bed, flung herself forward, hugged McClennon. "I'm glad you're back. I've been calling every day since I heard. They wouldn't let me come before."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And Max, the old girlfriend, "Christ, Walter. What the hell did they do to you? You look like death on a stick."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"That's why I love you, Max. You've always got a pleasant word." He squeezed Greta's hand. "How are you, honey? How's Academy?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She started babbling. Max got on about some new stamps she had at her hobby shop. She had been saving them for him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse recovered his chessmen, deposited the set on the nightstand, took a chair. He crossed right leg over left, steepled his fingers before his mouth, and watched with a small smile.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon turned his head, trying to hide his eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Softly, Max said, "Walter. You're crying."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon hid behind his hand. "Max... It was a rough one. A long one and a rough one. I was lost for a long time. I forgot... I forgot I had friends. I was alone out there."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse was there, wasn't he?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse was there. Without him... He brought me through. Mouse. Come here." He took Storm's hand. "Thanks, Mouse. I mean it. Let's don't let it get away again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">For a moment Storm stopped hiding behind the masks and poses. He nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Greta resumed babbling. McClennon hugged her again. "I'm having trouble believing it. I thought you'd have forgotten me by now."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"How could I?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What am I? A sentimental fool who helped a pretty girl in trouble. We never knew each other."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">She hugged him a third time. She whispered, "I knew you. You cared. That's what matters. When you were gone, your friends were always there to help." She buried her head in his shoulder and blubbered.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon frowned a question at Max, who said, "Your Bureau took care of her like family. She's got to be the most pampered Midshipman in Academy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Max shrugged. "I did what I could." She seemed embarrassed. "Well, how else was I going to keep track of you? I don't have connections."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm glad you're going to be all right," Greta murmured. "Dad?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">More tears escaped McClennon's eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Did I do wrong? I didn't mean... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's all right, honey. It's all right. I wasn't ready for that." He squeezed the wind out of her.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Just get the hell out of my way, woman!" someone thundered in the passageway outside. Beckhart kicked the door open. "See if you can't find a bedpan over around Tycho Crater, eh? Go on. Get scarce."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The nurse beat her second retreat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The Admiral surveyed the room.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon stared at his professional paterfamilias.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Looks like everything's under control," Beckhart observed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Place is drawing a crowd," McClennon said. "Must be my animal magnetism."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart smiled with one side of his mouth. "That's one crime they won't convict you of, son. Lay out that board, Mouse. I'll beat you a game while we wait for the females."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The game had hardly started, and McClennon had hardly gotten Greta's eyes dried. The door swung inward again. The nurse watched with a look of despair.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tanni Lowenthal's face rippled with emotions. It selected an amused smile. "Tom. I thought I'd get here first. I guess you don't run as fast when you've got short legs." She crossed gazes with Max. The metallic <em class="calibre9">scrang</em> of ladies' rapiers meeting momentarily tortured the air. Then Max smiled and introduced herself. She and Tanni got past the rocky part in minutes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart checked his watch. "Damn it, they're late. I'm going to have somebody's... "</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The harried nurse stepped in. She carried a portable remote comm. "Call for you, Captain McClennon."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Let me have that," the Admiral said. He seized the comm. "Jones? You find her? Got her on the line? All right. Thomas, your mother." He handed the comm to McClennon and returned to his game.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon did not know what to do or say. He and his mother were estranged. She was Old Earther born and bred, and they had battled fiercely ever since his enlistment. Their last meeting, just before the Seiner mission, had ended bitterly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mother?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Tommy? Is it really you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I thought you'd been killed. When they came to the apartment... God. They say you were mixed up in this war business that's got the whole world turned upside down. The spikes are everywhere. They're grabbing people off the streets."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I was in it a little." She had not changed. He hardly had a chance to get in a word of his own.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"They said you got married. Is she a nice girl?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It didn't work out. But yes, she was. You would have liked her." He checked his audience. Only the Admiral seemed to know his mother's half of the conversation.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They did not talk long. There had been little to say since he had gone his separate way. It was enough that, for all their differences, they could show one another they still cared.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon handed the comm to the Admiral when he finished. "Thank you, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I owe you, Thomas. One mission and another, I put you through hell for four years. I won't apologize. You're the best. They demanded the best. But I can try to make it up a little now. I can try to show you that I didn't take it all away... " Beckhart seemed unable to say what he meant.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thank you, sir."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A baffled, resigned nurse opened the door. A youth in Midshipman blacks stepped in. "Uncle Tom?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Horst-Johann! Jesus, boy. I hardly recognize you. You're half a meter taller."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Jupp von Drachau's son joined the crowd. The boy had been closer to McClennon than his father since his parents had split. The boy was in his father's custody, and resented him for being absent so much. Thomas did not understand the reasoning behind the feeling. The boy saw Jupp more often than him... He thought of his mother and reflected that children applied a special logic to that species of adult called a parent.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He lay back on the bed and surveyed the gathering. Not a big circle, he thought, but all good friends. Surprisingly good friends, considering what he had been through the past few years... Friends whom, most of the time, he had not known he had.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He really had been way out there, lost in the wildernesses of his mind, hadn't he?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The universe now seemed bright and new, specially made for him. Even his starfish memories and his knowledge of the doom approaching from centerward could not take the gleam off.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Horst-Johann was first to leave, after a promise to visit again come the weekend. Then Mouse, who had to return to his own extended debriefing. Then Tanni, who had to get back for her watch aboard <em class="calibre9">Marathon.</em> She departed after a whispered promise that left him in no doubt that his masculinity had survived the hospital weeks.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Beckhart sat his chair silently and waited with the patience of a statue of Ramses.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A half hour after Tanni's departure, Max announced, "We have to leave, Walter. Greta has to get back for morning muster. You be good. And try not to collect any more little blondes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">McClennon grinned self-consciously. "You coming back?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"For sure. I'm keeping an eye on you. You're not sneaking off on me again... It's been a long time, Walter."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Greta blushed.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks for coming. And Greta. Thank you. Come here." He hugged her, whispered, "I'm there when you need me."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It's important to have somebody who needs you."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I know. I'll be back Saturday."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">After the women left, Beckhart sat in silence for several minutes. McClennon finally asked, "Aren't they going to miss you at the office?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I'm not as indispensable as I thought, Thomas. I come back after six months in the field and find them caught up and not a problem in sight."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What's on your mind?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"I really said it before, about as well as I can. That I'm sorry I had to do what I did."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Sorry, but you'd do it again."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"If something comes up. I don't think it will. Things are damned quiet now. The war has everybody's attention."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Will we be able to do anything with Stars' End? Or what I learned from the starfish?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"About the fish info I don't know. It does prove there's a hope. Stars' End... Our Seiner friends have gotten it straightened out. The place is almost a high-technology weapons museum. Some of the simpler systems will be available when next we engage."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"The gods are dead. Long live the gods," McClennon murmured.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Nothing. Nothing at all."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A long time ago, in another life, I promised you a vacation. I sent you to Payne's Fleet instead. This time I'm sending you home. I've already sent word to Refuge to get your house ready. Take Mouse along."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Mouse took care of you when it got tough. It's your turn. He's slipping. The Sangaree are gone. That hate kept him glued together since he was a kid."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"All right. I understand."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A mountain of paperwork was needed to close out the mission and put the Board of Inquiry into motion. The latter would be handled entirely by deposition. Thomas rolled through it. Nothing daunted him. The Psychs seemed to have rebuilt him better than original issue. He worked like a slave, and had energy left to flit from friend to friend evenings and weekends. He reminded himself of Mouse in days gone by, when Storm had been everywhere at once, pursuing a hundred interests and projects.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse was the opposite. He could not finish anything.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Then it was all done. <em class="calibre9">Marathon</em> took them aboard and spaced for the quiet Cygnian world called Refuge, which was home for millions of retired civil servants and senior Service personnel.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But for Tanni Lowenthal the journey might have been depressing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Going home. His showing for the mission some money, some stamps and coins for his collections, some new and old memories, and an armistice with himself. Somehow, it did not seem enough.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">But he had found his friends, the people he had thought missing so long. So why was he disappointed?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">There had been one soul-scar the Psychs had not been able to heal completely.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He could not forget Amy.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">They had never really finished. They had not said <em class="calibre9">the end.</em> They had just gone separate ways.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He liked things wrapped up neatly.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Time passed. Cygnian summer faded into autumn. Fall segued into winter. Mouse and McClennon played chess, and waited, growing closer, till Mouse revealed the whole story of his past, of the origins of his hatred for the Sangaree. Gently, McClennon kept his friend's spirit from sliding away completely. Gently, he began to bring Mouse back.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The report of the Board of Inquiry, delayed repeatedly, drew no closer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">From Cygnus it did not seem there <em class="calibre9">was</em> a war. Luna Command had expanded its forces six-fold, and had begun building new weapons and ships, but otherwise Confederation seemed to be going on as before.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Tanni visited occasionally. Max and Greta kept in touch.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And yet...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Some nights, when the dark winter skies were terribly clear, McClennon would put aside his stamp collection, coins, or the novel he had begun writing, and would go out on the terrace. Shivering, he would stare up at stars burning palely in unearthly constellations and picture huge ships like flying iron jungles. He would think of swarms of gold dragons, and a million-year-old beast he had taught to tell a joke.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He never loved her more than he did now that she was lost forever. Mouse had told him... She might use his name to frighten his own child. She would not hate him now. She would understand. But there would be appearances to be maintained, and social winds with which to sail...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Life never worked out the way you wanted. Everyone was victimized by social equivalents of the theories of that dirty old man, Heisenberg.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The comm buzzed. McClennon answered. A moment later, he called, "Mouse, Jupp's coming in to spend a few days." He returned to the terrace. The ship burned down the sky, toward where the city's lighted towers made fairy spires that soared above distant woods. McClennon pretended it was a shooting star. He made a wish. "Want to play a game while we're waiting?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Mouse grinned. "You're on."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Stop smirking. I'm going to whip you this time, old buddy."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And he did. He finally did.</div>
 



</div>

{% endraw %}

