---
layout: page
title: "Only You Can Save Mankind"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-only-you-can-save-mankind_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216935">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216898">1.</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218939">2.</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36289779">3</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36290616">4</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36291423">5</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36292032">6</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36293043">7</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36293929">8</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36294682">9</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36295326">10</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36296188">11</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36297354">12</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre6"/>
  Only You Can Save Mankind <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36217007" class="calibre7"></div>

<div class="paragraph">The Mighty ScreeWeeTM Empire is
poised to attack Earth!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Our battleships have been
destroyed in a sneak raid!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nothing can stand between Earth
and the terrible vengeance of the
ScreeWeeTM!</div>
<div class="paragraph">But there is one starship left...
end out of the mists of time comes
one warrior, one fighter who Is the
last Hope of Civilizatlon!</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">YOU!</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">YOU are the Savior of Civilization.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You are all that stands between</div>
<div class="paragraph">your world and Certain Oblivion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You are the Last Mope.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only You Can Save Mankind! TM</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">Action-Packed with New Features!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Just like the Real Thing! Full.Color</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sound and Slam.VectorTM Graphics!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sulteble for 1CM PC, Atari. Amiga. Pineapple,</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ametrad, Nintendo. Actual games shots taken from a</div>
<div class="paragraph">Version YOU haven't bought.</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">Copyright IEEE Qobi Software, 7234 W., Agharta
Drive, Shambaia, Tibet. All Rights Reserved. All
company names and product names are regletered
trademarks or trademarks of their respective
compeniee.</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">The names ScreeWee, Empire and Mankind are
trademarks of QobI Software 1992.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216898" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36216901" class="calibre8"></a>1. <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The Hero With A Thousand
Extra Lives</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny bit his lip, and concentrated.
Right. Come in quick, let a missile target itself- beep
beep beep beebeebeebeeb - on the first fighter, fire the
missile - thwutnp - empty the guns at the fighter -
fplatfplatfplatfplat - hit fighter No. 2 and take out its
shields with the laser - bwizzle - while the missile -
pwwosh - takes out fighter No. 1, dive, switch guns,
rake fighter No.3 as it turns fplatfplatfplat - pick up
fighter No. 2 in the sights again on the upcurve, let go
a missile - thwump - and rake it with -
Fwit fwit fwit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fighter No. 4! It always came in last, but if you went
after it first the others would have time to turn and
you'd end up in the sights of three of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd died six times already. And it was only five
o'clock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His hands flew over the keyboard. Stars roared past
as he accelerated out of the melee. It'd leave him short
of fuel, but by the time they caught up the shields
would be back and he'd be ready, and two of them
would already have taken damage, and ... here they
come ... missiles away, wow, lucky hit on the first
one, die die die!, red fireball - swsssh - take shield loss
while concentrating fire on the next one - swsssh - and</div>
<div class="paragraph">now the last one was running, but he could outrun it,
hit the accelerator - ggrrRRRSSHHH - and just keep
it in his sights while he poured shot after shot into -
swssh.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ah!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The huge bulk of their capital ship was in the corner
of the screen. Level 10, here we come ... careful,
careful... there were no more ships now, so all he had
to do was keep out of its range and then sweep in and
We wish to talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny blinked at the message on the screen.
We wish to talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ship roared by - eeey000wwwnn. He reached out
for the throttle key and slowed himself down, and then
turned and got the big red shape in his sights again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We wish to talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His finger hovered on the Fire button. Then, with-
out really looking, he moved it over to the keyboard.
and pressed Pause.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he read the manual.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only You Can Save Mankind, it said on the cover.
'Full Sound and Graphics. The Ultimate Game.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">A ScreeWee heavy cruiser, it said on page 17, could
be taken out with seventy-six laser shots. Once you'd
cleared the fighter escort and found a handy spot where
the ScreeWee's guns couldn't get you, it was just a
matter of time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We wish to talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Even with the Pause on, the message still flashed on
the screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was nothing in the manual about messages.
Johnny riffled through the pages. It must be one of the
New Features the game was Packed With.
He put down the book, put his hands on the
keys and cautiously tapped out: Die, alein scum!</div>
<div class="paragraph">No! We do not wish to die! We wish to talk!</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn't supposed to be like this, was it?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler Johnson, who'd given him the disc and
photocopied the manual on his dad's copier, had said
that once you'd completed level 10 you got given an
extra 10,000 points and the Scroll of Valour and moved
on to the Arcturus Sector, where there were different
ships and more of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny wanted the Scroll of Valour.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny fired the laser one more time. Swsssh. He
didn't really know why. It was just because you had the
joystick and there was the Fire button and that was
what it was for.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After all, there wasn't a Don't Fire button.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We Surrender! PLEASE!</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reached over and, very carefully, pressed the Save
Game button. The computer whined and clicked, and
then was silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't play again the whole evening. He did his
homework.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was Geography. You had to colour in Great
Britain and put a dot on the map of the world where
you thought it was.
The ScreeWee captain thumped her desk with one of
her forelegs.
'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The First Officer swallowed, and tried to keep her
tail held at a respectful angle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He just vanished again, ma'am,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But did he accept?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, ma'am.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain drummed the fingers of three hands on
the table. She looked slightly like a newt but mainly like
an alligator.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But we didn't fire on him!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, ma'am.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And you sent my message?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, ma am.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And every time we've killed him, he comes back...'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He caught up with Wobbler in Break.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler was the kind of boy who's always picked
last when you had to pick teams, although that was all
right at the moment as the PE teacher didn't believe in
teams because they encouraged competition.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wobbled. It was glandular, he said. He wobbled
especially when he ran. Bits of Wobbler headed in
various directions; it was only on average that he was
running in any particular direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he was good at games. They just weren't the
ones that people thought you ought to be good at.
If ever there was an Inter-Schools First-One-To-
Break-The-Unbreakable-Copy-Protection-on-Galactic-
Thrusters, Wobbler wouldn't just be in the team, he'd
be picking the team.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo, Wobbler,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's not cool to say Yo any more,' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is it rad to say cool?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Cool's always cool. And no-one says rad any more,
either.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler looked around conspiratorially and then
fished a package from his bag.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is cool. Have a go at this.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What is it?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I cracked Fighter Star Terafiomber,' said Wobbler.
'Only don't tell anyone, right? Just type FSB. It's not
much good, really. The space bar drops the bombs,
and ... well ... just press the keys, you'll see what
they do. .
'Listen.. . you know Only You Can Save Mankind?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Still playing that, are you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You didn't, you know, do anything to it, did you?
Um? Before you gave me a copy?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. It wasn't even protected. Didn't have to do
anything except copy the manual. Why?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You did play it, didn't you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A bit.' Wobbler only played games once. Wobbler
could watch a game for a couple of minutes, and then
pick up the joystick and get top score. And then never
play it again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nothing ... funny ... happened?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Like what?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Like ...' Johnny hesitated. He could tell Wobbler,
and then Wobbler would laugh, or not believe him, or
say it was just some bug or something, some kind of
trick. Or a virus. Wobbler had discs full of computer
viruses. He didn't do anything with them. He just col-
lected them, like stamps or something.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could tell Wobbler, and then somehow it
wouldn't be real.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know ... funny.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Like what?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Weird. Um. Lifelike, I suppose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's sposed to be. Just like the real thing, it says. I
hope you've read the manual properly. My dad spent a
whole coffee break copying that.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny gave a sickly grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. Right. Better read it, then. Thanks for Star
Fighter Pilot-'
'TeraBomber. My dad brought me back Alabama
Smith and the Jewels of Fate from the States. You can
have a copy if you give me the disc back.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Johnny.
'It's OK.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He never had the heart to tell Wobbler that he didn't
play half the games Wobbler passed on. You couldn't.
Not if you wanted time to sleep and eat meals. But that
was all right because Wobbler never asked. As far
as Wobbler was concerned, computer games weren't
there for playing. They were for breaking into, rewrit-
ing so that you got extra lives or whatever, and then
copying and giving away to everyone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Basically, there were two sides to the world. There
was the entire computer games software industry
engaged in a tremendous effort to stamp out piracy,
and there was Wobbler. Currently, Wobbler was in
front.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Did you do my History?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Here,' said Johnny. ' "What it was like to be a
peasant during the English Civil War." Three pages.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Thanks,' said Wobbler. 'That was quick.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, in Geog last term we had to do one about What
it's like being a peasant in Bolivig. I just got rid of the
llamas and put in stuff about kings having their heads
chopped off. You have to bung in that kind of stuff,
and then you just have to keep complaining about the
weather and the crops and you can't go wrong, in
peasant essays.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny lay on his bed reading Only You Can Save
Mankind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could just about remember the days when you
could still get games where the instructions consisted of
something that said, 'Press { for left and } for right
and Fire for fire.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">But now you had to read a whole little book which
was all about the game. It was really the manual, but
they called it 'The Novel'.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Partly it was an anti-Wobbler thing. Someone in
America or somewhere thought it was dead clever to
make the game ask you little questions, like 'What's the
first word on line 23 on page 19 of the manual?' and
then reset the machine if you didn't answer them right,
so they'd obviously never heard of Wobbler's dad's
office's photocopier.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So there was this book. The ScreeWee had turned up
out of nowhere and bombed some planets with humans
on them. Nearly all the starships had been blown up.
So there was only this one left, the experimental one.
It was all that stood against the ScreeWee hordes. And
only you ... that is to say John Maxwell, aged twelve,
in between the time you get home from school and get
something to eat and do your homework ... can save
mankind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nowhere did it say what you were supposed to do
if the ScreeWee hordes didn't want to fight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched on the computer, and pressed the Load
Game key.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the ship again, right in the middle of his
sights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He picked up the joystick thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was an immediate message on the screen.
Well, not exactly a message. More a picture. Half a
dozen little egg-shaped blobs, with tails. They didn't
move.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What kind of message is that? he thought</div>
<div class="paragraph">Perhaps there was a special message he ought to</div>
<div class="paragraph">send. 'Die, Creep' didn't seem to fit properly at the
moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: Whats hpaening?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Immediately a reply appeared on the screen, in yellow
letters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We surrender. Do not shoot See, we show you pictures of
our children.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: Is this a trick WObbler?</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took a little while before the reply came.
Am not trick wobbler. We give in. No more war.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny thought for a while, and then typed: Youre
not supoosed to give ni.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Want to go home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny typed: It says in the book you blue up a lot
of planets.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lies!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the screen. What he wanted to type
was: No, I mean, this cant happen, youre Aliens, you
cant not want to be shot at, no other game aliens have
ever stopped aliening across the screen, they never said
We DonT Want to Go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then he thought: they never had the chance.
They couldn't.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But games are a lot better now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They never made things like the old MegaZoids
seem real, with stories about them and Full-Colour
Graphics.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is probably that Virtual Reality they're always
talking about on the television.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: It is only a game, after all.
What is a game?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: Who ARE you?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen flickered. Something a bit like a newt but
more like an alligator looked back at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I am the Captain, said the yellow letters. Do not
shoot!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny typed: I shoot at you and you shoto at me.
That is the game.
But we die.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny typed: Sometimes I die. I die a lot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But YOU live again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the words for a moment. Then he
typed: Dont you?
No. How could this be? When we die, we die. For ever.
Johnny typed desperately: No, thats not right
because, in the first mission, theres three ships you have
to blow up before the first planet. I@ve played it lots
of times and there@s always three ships there-
Thfferent ships.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny thought for a while and then typed: What
happens if I switch of tthe machine?</div>
<div class="paragraph">We do not understand the question.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is daft, thought Johnny. It's just a very unusual
game. It's a special mission or something.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: Why should I trust you?</div>
<div class="paragraph">LOOK BEHIND YOU.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny sat bolt upright in his chair. Then he let him-
self swivel around, very cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Of course, there was no-one there. Why should there
be anyone there? It was a game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The newt face had disappeared from the screen, leav-
ing the familiar picture of the inside of the starfighter.
And there was the radar screen-
covered in yellow dots.
Yellow for the enemy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny picked up the joystick and turned the star-
fighter around. The entire ScreeWee fleet was there.
Ship after ship was hanging in space behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Little fighters, big cruisers, massive battleships.
If they all had him in their sights, and if they .......
He didn't want to die.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on, hang on. You don't die. You just play the
game again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This was nuts. It was time to stop it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: All right what happens now?
We want to go home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: All right no problem.
You give us safe conduct</div>
<div class="paragraph">He typed: OK yes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen went blank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And that was it? No music? No 'Congratulations,
You've Got the Highest Score'?
Just the little prompt, flashing on and off.
What did safe conduct mean, anyway?</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218939" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218941" class="calibre8"></a>2. <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Operate Controls To Play Game</div>
<div class="paragraph">You never said to your parents, 'Hey, I really need a
computer because that way I can play Megasteroids.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">No, you said, 'I really need a computer because of
school.'
It's educational.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anyway, there had to be a good side to the Trying
Times everyone was going through in this house. If you
hung around in your room and generally kept your
head down, stuff like computers sort of happened. It
made everyone feel better.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And it was quite useful for school sometimes. Johnny
had written 'What it felt like to be different sorts of
peasants' on it, and printed them out on the printer,
although he had to rewrite them in his handwriting
because although the school taught Keyboard Skills
and New Technology you got into trouble if you
used keyboard skills and new technology actually to do
anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Funnily enough, it wasn't much good for maths.
He'd always had trouble with algebra, because they
wouldn't let you get away with 'What it feels like to
be x2'. But he had an arrangement with Bigmac about
that, because Bigmac got the same feeling when he
looked at an essay project as Johnny did when he was
faced with a quadratic equation. Anyway, it didn't
matter that much. If you kept your head down,
they were generally so grateful that you were not,
e.g., causing policemen to come to the school, or
actually nailing a teacher to anything, that you got left
alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But mainly the computer was good for games. If you
turned the volume control up, you didn't have to hear
the shouting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee mother ship was in uproar. There was
still a haze of smoke in the air from the last bombard-
ment, and indistinct figures pattered back and forth,
trying to fix things up well enough to survive the
journey.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain sat back in her chair on the huge,
shadowy bridge. She was yellow under the eyes, a sure
sign of lack of sleep. So much to be done ... half the
fighters were damaged, and the main ships were in none
too good condition, and there was hardly any room and
certainly no food for all the survivors they were taking
on board.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked up. There was the Gunnery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is not a wise move,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It is the only one I have,' said the Captain wearily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No! We must fight on!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And then we die,' said the Captain. 'We fight, and
then we die. That's how it goes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then we die gloriously!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's an important word in that sentence,' said the
Captain. 'And it's not the word "gloriously".'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer went light green with rage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He's attacked hundreds of our ships!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And then he stopped.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'None of the others have,' said the Gunnery Officer.
'They're humans! You can't trust a human. They shoot
everything.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain rested her snout on one hand.
'He doesn't,' she said. 'He listened. He talked. None
of the others did. He may be the One.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer placed his upper two front
hands on the desk and glared at her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well,' he said, 'I've talked to the other officers. I
don't believe in legends. When the full enormity of
what you have done is understood, you will be relieved
of your command!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned tired eyes towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Good,' she said. 'But right now, I am Captain. I am
responsible. Do you understand? Have you got the
faintest idea of what that means? Now - . . go!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't like it, but he couldn't disobey. I can have
him shot, she thought. It'd be a good idea. Bound to
save trouble later on. It'll be No. 235 on the list of
Things to Do .</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned back to continue staring at the stars out-
side, on the huge screen that filled one wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The enemy ship still hung there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What kind of person is it? she thought. Despicable
though they are, there's so few of them. But they keep
coming back! What's their secret?</div>
<div class="paragraph">But you can be sure of one thing. They surely only
send their bravest and their best.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The advantage of the Trying Times was that helping
yourself from the fridge was OK. There didn't seem to
be any proper mealtimes any more in any case. Or any
real cooking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny made himself spaghetti and baked beans.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was no sound from the living-room, although
the TV was on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he watched a bit of television in his room. He'd
been given the old one when they got the new one. It
wasn't very big and you had to get up and walk over
to it every time you wanted to change channels or the
volume or whatever, but these were Trying Times.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a film on the News showing some missiles
streaking over some city. It was quite good.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he went to bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was not entirely surprised to wake up at the controls
of a starfighter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had been like that with Captain Zoom. You
couldn't get it out of your head. After an evening's
concentrated playing you were climbing ladders and
dodging laser-zap bolts all night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a pretty good dream, even so. He could fell
the seat under him. And the cabin smelled of hot oil and
overheated plastic and unwashed people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It looked pretty much like the one he saw on the
screen every evening, except that there was a thin
film of grease and dirt over everything. But there was
the radar screen, and the weapons console, and the
joystick</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hey, much better than the computer! The cabin was
full of noises - the click and whirr of fans, the hum and
buzz of instruments.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And better graphics. You get much better graphics
in your dreams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee fleet hung in the air, hung in space
in front of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wow!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Although dreams ought to be a bit more exciting.
You got chased in dreams. Things happened to you.
Sitting in the cockpit of a starfighter bristling with
weapons was fun, but things ought to happen</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wandered if he should launch a missile or
something... No, hang on, they'd surrendered. And
there was that thing about safe conduct.
His hands wandered over the switches in front of
him. They were a bit different from the computer
keyboard, but this one-
'Are you receiving me?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The face of the Captain appeared on the communications screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We are ready.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Ready?' said Johnny. 'What for?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Lead the way,' said the Captain. The voice came out
of a grille beside the screen. It must be being translated
by something, Johnny thought. I shouldn't think giant
newts speak English.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Where to?' he said. 'Where are we going?'
'To Earth.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Earth? Hang on! That's where I live! People can get
into serious trouble showing huge alien fleets where
they live!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The grille hummed and buzzed for a while. Then the
Captain said: 'Apology. That is a direct translation. We call
the planet that is our home, "Earth"' When I speak in
Sree Wee, your computer finds the word in your language
that means the same thing. The actual word in Scree Wee
sounds like ...' There was a noise like someone taking
their foot out of a wet cowpat. 'I will show our home to
you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">A red circle suddenly developed on the navigation
screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny knew about that. You just moved a green
circle over it, the computer went binleabinleabinlea, and
you'd set your course.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They've shown me where they live.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The thought sunk in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They trust me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As he moved his fighter forwards, the entire alien
fleet pulled in behind him. They eclipsed the stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The cabin hummed and buzzed quietly to itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, at least it didn't look too hard</div>
<div class="paragraph">A green dot appeared ahead of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He watched it get bigger, and recognized the shape
of a starflghter, just like his.
But it was a little hard to make it out.
This was because it was half-hidden by laser bolts.
It was firing at him as it came.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And it was travelling so fast it was very nearly catch-
ing up with its own fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny jerked the joystick and his ship rolled out of
the way as the ... the enemy starfighter roared past and
barrelled on towards the ScreeWee ships.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The whole sky full of ScreeWee ships.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which had surrendered to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But people out there were still playing the game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No! Listen to me! They're not fighting any more!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The starfighter turned in a wide curve and headed
diiectly for the command ship. Johnny saw it launch a
missile. Someone sitting at a keyboard somewhere had
launched a missile.
'Listen! You've got to stop!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It's not listening to me, he thought. You don't listen
to the enemy. The enemy's there to be shot at. That's
why it's the enemy. That's what the enemy's for.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He swung around to follow the starship, which had
slowed down. It was pouring shot after shot into the
command ship
which wasn't firing back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared in horror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ship rocked under the hail of fire. The Gunnery
Officer crawled across the shaking floor and pulled
himself up beside the Captain's chair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Fool! Fool! I told you this would happen! I demand
that we return fire!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain was watching the Chosen One's ship.
It hadn't moved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No,' she said. 'We have to give him a chance. We
must not fire on human ships.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A chance? How much of a chance do we have? I shall
give the order to-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain moved very fast. When her hand
stopped she was holding a gun very close to the Gun-
nery Officer's head. It was really only a ceremonial
weapon; normally ScreeWee fought only with their
claws. But its shape said very clearly that things came
out of the hole in the front end with the very definite
purpose of travelling fast through the air and then kill-
ing people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer's face went blue, a sure sign of
terror. But he had enough courage left to say: 'You
would not dare fire!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It's a game, thought Johnny. There's not a real person
in that ship. It's someone playing a game. It's all a
game. It's just things happening on a screen somewhere.
No.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I mean, yes.
But...
at the same time
it's all happening here</div>
<div class="paragraph">His own ship leapt forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was easy. It was so easy. Just line up circles on the
screen, binkabinkabinka, and then press the Fire button
until every weapon on the ship was empty. He'd done.
it many times before.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The invader hadn't even seen him. It launched some
missiles - and then blew up in an impressive display of
graphics.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That's all it is, Johnny told himself. Just things on a
screen. It's not real. There's no arms and feet spinning
away through the wreckage. It's all a game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The missiles arrived</div>
<div class="paragraph">The whole cockpit went blinding white.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was aware, just for a moment, of cold space
around him, with things in it</div>
<div class="paragraph">A bookcase. A chair. A bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was sitting in front of the computer. The screen
was blank. He was holding the joystick so hard that he
had to concentrate to let go of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The clock by his bed said 6:3=, because it was
broken. But it meant he'd have to get up in another
hour or so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat with his quilt around him watching the television
until the alarm went off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were some more pictures of missiles and bullets
streaking over a city. They looked pretty much the
same as the ones he'd seen last night, but were probably
back by popular demand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He felt sick.</div>
<h5 class="subtitle">* * *</h5>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less could help, Johnny decided.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He normally hung out with Wobbler and Bigmac on
the bit of wall behind thi school library. They weren't
exactly a gang. If you take a big bag of crisps and shake
them up, all the little bits end up in one corner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less was called Yo-less because he never said 'Yo'.
He'd given up objecting to the name by now. At least
it was better than Nearly Crucial, which was the last
nickname, and MC Spanner, which was the one before
that. Johnny was the official nickname generator.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less said he'd never said 'crucial', either. He
pointed out that Johnny was white and never said,
'YerWhat? YerWhat? YerWhat?' or 'Ars-nal! Ars-
nal!' and anyway, you shouldn't makejokes about racial
stereotyping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny didn't go into too much detail. He just talked
about the dream, and not about the messages on the
screen. Yo-less listened carefully. Yo-less listened to
everything carefully. It woried teachers, the way he
listened carefully to everything they said. They always
suspected he was trying to catch them out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He said, 'What you've got here is a projection of
a psychological conflict. That's all. Want a cheese
ring?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's that?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's just crunchy cheesy-flavoured-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I mean the other thing you said.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less passed the packet on to Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well.. . your mum and dad are splitting up. right?
Well-known fact.'
'Could be. It's a bit of a trying time,' said Johnny.
'O-kay. And there's nothing you can do about it.'
'Shouldn't think so,' said Johnny.
'And this definitely affects you,' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I suppose so,' said Johnny cautiously. 'I know I have
to do a lot of my own cooking.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right. So you project your.., um... suppressed~
emotions on to a computer game. Happens all the
time,' said Yo-less, whose mother was a nurse, and who,
wanted to be a doctor if he grew up. 'You can't solve
the real problems, so you turn them into problems you
can solve. Like ... if this was thirty years ago, you'd
probably dream about fighting dragons or something.
It's a projected fantasy.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Saving hundreds of intelligent newts doesn't sound
very easy to solve,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dunno,' said Bigmac, happily. 'Ratatatat-blam! No
more problem.' Bigmac wore large boots and camouflage
trousers all the time. You could spot him a mile
off by his camouflage trousers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The thing is,' said Yo-less, 'it's not real. Real's real.!
But stuff on a screen isn't.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I've cracked Stellar Smashers,' said Wobbler. 'You
can have that if you want. Everyone says it's a lot
better.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No-oo,' said Johnny, 'I think I'll stick with this one
for a while. See if I can get to level twenty-one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If you get to level twenty-one and blow up the
whole fleet you get a special number on the screen,
and if you write off to Gobi Software you get a five
pound token,' said Wobbler. 'It was in Computer
Weekly.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny thought about the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A whole five pounds?' he said. 'Gosh.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was Games in the afternoon. Bigmac was the only
one who played. He'd never been keen until they'd
introduced hockey. You got a club to hit people, he
said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less didn't do sport because of intellectual incom-
patibility. Wobbler didn't do sport because the sports
master had asked him not to. Johnny didn't do sport
because he had a permanent note, and no-one cared
much anyway, so he went home early and spent the
afternoon reading the manual.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't touch the computer before tea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was an extended News, which meant that
Cobbers was postponed. There were the same pictures
of missiles streaking across a city that he'd seen the
night before, except that now there were more jour-
nalists in sand-coloured shirts with lots of pockets
talking excitedly about them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He heard his mother downstairs complain about
Cobbers, and by the sound of the raised voices that
started Trying Times again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was some History homework about
Christopher Columbus. He looked him up in the
encyclopedia and copied out four hundred words,
which usually worked. He drew a picture of Columbus
as well, and coloured it in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while he realized that he was putting off swit-
ching the computer on. It came to something, he
thought, when you did school work rather than play
games.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wouldn't hurt to at least have a game of Pac-Man
or something. Trouble was, the ghosts would probably
stay in the middle of the screen and refuse to come out
and be eaten. He didn't think he could cope with that.
He'd got enough to worry about as it was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On top of it all, his father came upstairs to be
fatherly. This happened about once a fortnight. There
didn't seem to be any way of stopping it. You had to
put up with twenty minutes of being asked about how
you were getting on at school, and had you really
thought about what you wanted to be when you grew
up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The thing to do was not encourage things but as
politely as possible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His father sat on the edge of the bed and looked
around the room as though he'd never seen it before.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After the normal questions about teachers Johnny
hadn't had since the first year, his father stared at
nothing much for a while and then said, 'Things have
been a bit tricky lately. I expect you've noticed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's been a bit tricky at work. Not a good time to~
start a new business.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Everything all right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nothing you want to talk about?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. I don't think so.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">His father looked around the room again. Then he
said, 'Remember last year, when we all went down to
Falmouth for the week?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You enjoyed that, didn't you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd got sunburnt and twisted his ankle on some
rocks and he had to get up at 8.30 every morning, even
though it was supposed to be a holiday. And the only
TV in the hotel was in front of some old woman who
never let go of the remote-control.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We ought to go again.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">His father was staring at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Johnny. 'That would be nice.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How're you getting on with Space Invaders?'
'Sorry?'
'Space Invaders. On the computer.'
Johnny turned to look at the blank screen.
'What're Space Invaders?' he said.
'Isn't that what they're called any more? Space
Invaders? You used to get them in pubs and things, oh,
before you were born. Rows of spiky triangular green
aliens with six legs kept on coming down the screen and
we had to shoot them.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny gave this some thought. 'What happened
when you'd shot them all, then?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, you got some more.' His father stood up. 'I
expect it's all more complicated now, though.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Done your homework, have you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What was it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'History. Had to write about Christopher
Columbus.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hmm? You could put in that he didn't set out to
discover America. He was really looking far Asia and
found America by accident.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. It says that in the encyclopedia.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Glad to see you're using it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. It's very interesting.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Good. Right. Right, then. Well, I'm going to have
another look at those accounts.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If there's anything you want to talk about, you
know.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny waited until he heard the living-room door
shut again. He wondered if he ought to have asked
where the instruction manual for the dishwasher was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched on the computer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while, the screen for Only You Can Save
Mankind came on. He watched the introductory bit
moodily, and then picked up the joystick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There weren't any aliens.</div>
<div class="paragraph">For a little while he thought he'd done something'
wrong. He started the game again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were still no aliens. All there was, was the
blackness of space, sprinkled with a few twinkling
stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He flew around until he was out of fuel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No ScreeWee, no dots on the radar screen. No game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They'd gone.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36289779" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36289782" class="calibre8"></a>3 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Cereal Killers</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was more news these days than normal. Half the
time the TV was showing pictures of tanks and maps
of deserts with green and red arrows all over them,
while in the corner of the screen would be a photo of
a journalist with a phone to his ear, talking in a crackly
voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It crackled in the background while Johnny phoned
up Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'
'Can I speak to Wob ... to Stephen, please?'
Mutter, clonk, bump, scuffle.
'Yes?'
'It's me, Wobbler.'
'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Have you had a look at Only You Can Save Mankind
lately?'
'No. Hey, listen, I've found a way to'
'Could you have a go with it right now, please?'
Pause.
'You all right?'
'What?'
'You sound a bit weird.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, go and have a go with the game, will
you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was an hour before Wobbler phoned back. Johnny
waited on the stairs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can I speak?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's me.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's no aliens, right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Probably something built into the game. You can do
that, you know. A kind of time bomb thing. Maybe it's
programmed to make all the aliens vanish on a certain
date.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What for?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Make things more interesting, I expect. Probably
Gobi Software will be putting adverts in the computer
papers about it. You all right? Your voice sounds a bit
squeaky.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No problem.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You coming down to the mall tomorrow?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'See you, then. Chow.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the dead phone. Of course, there
were things like that on computers. There'd been some-
thing in the papers about it. A Friday the 13th virus,
or something. Something in the program kept an eye
on the date, and when it was Friday the 13th it was sup-
posed to do something nasty to computers all over the
country.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There had been stories about Evil Computer Hackers
Menacing Society, and Wobbler had come to school in
home-made dark glasses for a week.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny went back and watched the screen for a
while. Stars occasionally went past.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler had written an actual computer game like
this once. It was called Journey to Alpha Centauri. It was
a screen with some dots on it. Because, he said, it
happened in real time, which no-one had ever heard of
until computers. He'd seen on TV that it took three
thousand years to get to Alpha Centauri. He had writ-
ten it so that if anyone kept their computer on for three
thousand years, they'd be rewarded by a little dot
appearing in the middle of the screen, and then a
message saying. 'Welcome to Alpha Centauri. Now go
home.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny watched the screen for a bit longer. Once or
twice he nudged the joystick, to go on a different
course. It didn't make much difference. Space looked
the same from every direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hello? Anybody there?' he whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He watched some television before he went to bed.
There were some more missiles, and someone going on
about some other missiles which were supposed to
knock down the first type of missile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fleet travelled in the shape of a giant cone, hun-
dreds of miles long. The Captain looked back at
it. There were scores of mother ships, hundreds of
fighters. More and more kept joining them as news of
the surrender spread.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Chosen One's ship flew a little way ahead of the
fleet. It wasn't answering messages.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But no-one was shooting at them. There hadn't been
a human ship visible for hours. Perhaps, the Captain
thought, it's really working. We're leaving them
behind - - -</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny woke up in the game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was hard to sleep in the starship. The seat started
out as the most comfortable thing in the whole world,
but it was amazing how uncomfortable it became after
a few hours. And the lavatory was a complicated
arrangement of tubes and trapdoors and it wasn't, he
was beginning to notice, entirely smellproof.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That's what the computer games couldn't give you:
the smell of space. It had its own kind of smell, like a
machine's armpit. You didn't get dirty, because there
was no dirt, but there was a sort of grimy cleanliness
about everything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The radar went ping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while, he could see a dot ahead of him. It
wasn't moving much, and it certainly wasn't firing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He left the fleet and went to investigate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a huge ship. Or, at least, it had been once.
Quite a lot of it had been melted off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It drifted along, absolutely dead, tumbling very.
gently. It was green, and vaguely triangular, except for
six legs, or possibly arms. Three of them were broken
stubs. It looked like a cross between a spider and an,
octopus, designed by a computer and made out of hun-
dreds of cubes, bolted together.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As the giant hulk turned he could see huge gashes in
it, with melted edges. There was a suggestion of floors
inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched on the radio.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Captain?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can you see this thing here? 'What is it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We find them sometimes. We think they belonged to an
ancient race, now extinct. We don't know what they called
themselves, or where they came from. The ships are very
old.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The dead ship turned slowly. There was another long
burn down the other side.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think they were called Space Invaders,' said Johnny.
'The human name for them?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I thought so.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny was glad he couldn't see the Captain's face.
He thought: No-one knows where they came from,
or even what they called themselves. And now no-one
ever will.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The radar went ping again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a human ship heading towards the fleet,
at high speed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This time, he didn't hesitate</div>
<div class="paragraph">The point was, the ScreeWee weren't very good at
fighting. After the first few games it was quite easy
to beat them. They couldn't seem to get the hang
of it. They didn't know how to be sneaky, or when to
dodge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the same with all of them, come to think of
it. Johnny had played lots of games with words like
'Space' and 'Battle' and 'Cosmic' in the titles, and all the
aliens were the sort you could beat after a few weeks'
playing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This player didn't stand a chance against a real
human.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You got six missiles. Johnny had two streaking away
before the enemy was much larger than a dot. Then he
just kept his finger on the Fire button until there was
nothing left to fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A spreading cloud of wreckage, and that was it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn't as if anyone would die, after all. Whoever
had been in there would just have to start the game
again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It felt real, but that was just the dream . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Dreams always felt real.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned his attention to the thing by the control
chair. It had a nozzle which filled a paper cup with
something like thin vegetable soup, and a slot which
pushed out very large plastic bags containing very small
things like sandwiches. The bags had to be big to get
all the list of additives on. They contained absolutely
everything necessary to keep a star warrior healthy.
Not happy, but healthy</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd taken one mouthful when something slammed
into the ship. A red glare filled the cabin; alarms started
to blare.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up in time to see a ship curving away for
another run.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hadn't even glanced at the radar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd been eating his tea!</div>
<div class="paragraph">He spun the ship. The multi-vitamin sandwich flew
around into the wiring somewhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was coming back to get him. He prodded furiously
at the control panel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on ...</div>
<div class="paragraph">What was the worst that could happen to him?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could wake up in bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took his time. He dodged. He weaved. Another
missile hit the ship. As the attacker roared past, Johnny
fired, with everything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another cloud of wreckage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No problem.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But it must have fired a missile just before he got it.
There was another red flash. The lights went out. The
ship jumped. His head bounced off the seatback and
banged on to the control panel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He opened his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right. And you wake up back in your bedroom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A light winked at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something beeping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bound to be the alarm clock. That's how dreams
end</div>
<div class="paragraph">He lifted his head. The flashing light was oblong. He
tried to focus.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were shapes there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But they weren't saying 6:3=.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were spelling out 'AIR LEAK', and behind the
insistent beeping was a terrible hissing sound.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No, no, he thought. This doesn't happen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pushed himself up. There were lots of red lights.
He pressed some buttons hurriedly, but this had no
effect at all except to make some more lights go
red.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't know much about the controls of a star-
ship, other than fast, slow, left, right and fire, but there
were whole rows of flashing alarms which suggested
that a lot of things he didn't know about were going
wrong. He stared at some red letters which said
'SECONDARY PUMPS FAILURE'. He didn't know
what the secondary pumps were, either, but he wished,
he really wished, they hadn't failed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His head ached. He reached up, and there was real
blood on his hand. And he knew that he was going to
die. Really die.
No, he thought. Please! I'm John Maxwell. Please!
I'm twelve. I'm not dying in a spaceship
The beeping got louder.
He looked at the sign again.
It was flashing 6:3=
About time, he thought, as he passed out . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">And woke up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was at the computer again. It wasn't switched on,
and he was freezing cold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had a headache, but a tentative feel said there was
no blood. It was just a headache.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stared into the dark black screen, and wondered
what it felt like to be a ScreeWee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It felt like that, except that you didn't wake up. It
was always AIR LEAK, or *Alert*Alert*Alert* beep-
ing on and off, and then perhaps the freezing cold of
space, and then nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had breakfast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You got a free alien in every pack of sugar-glazed
Snappiflakes. It was a new thing. Or an old thing,
being tried again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The one that ended up in his bowl was orange and
had three eyes and four arms. And it was holding a ray
gun in each hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His father hadn't got up. His mother was watching
the little television in the kitchen, where a very large
man disguised as an entire desert was pointing to a lot
of red and blue arrows on a map.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went down to Neil Armstrong Mall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took the plastic alien with him. That'd be the way
to invade a planet. One alien in every box! Wait until
they were in every cupboard in the country, send out
the signal and bazaam!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cereal killers!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe on some other planet somewhere you got a
free human in every packet of ammonia-coated Snappi-
crystals. Hey, zorks! Collect the Whole Set! And
there'd be all these little plastic people. Holding guns,
of course. You just had to walk down the Street to see
that, of course, everyone had a gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked out of the bus window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was it, really. No-one would bother to put
plastic aliens inside the plastic cereal if they were just,
you know, doing everyday things. Holding the
Cosmiczippo RayTM hedge clippers! Getting on the
MegadeathTM bus! Hanging out at the Star Thruster
Mall!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The trouble with all the aliens he'd seen was that they
either wanted to eat you or play music at you until you
became better people. You never got the sort that just
wanted to do something ordinary like borrow the lawn
mower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler and Yo-less and Bigmac were trying to
hang out by the ornamental fountain, but really they
were just hanging around. Yo-less was wearing the
same grey trousers he wore to school. You couldn't
hang out in grey trousers. And Wobbler still wore his
sunglasses, except they weren't real sunglasses because
he had to wear ordinary glasses anyway; they were those
clip-on sunglasses for tourists. Also, they weren't the
same size as the glasses underneath, and had rubbed red
marks on his nose. And he wore an anorak. Wobbler
was probably the only person in the universe who still
wore an anorak. And Bigmac. in addition to his camou-
flage trousers and 'Terminator' T-shirt with 'Blackbury
Skins' on the back in biro, had got hold of a belt made
entirely of cartridge cases. He looked stupid.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo, duds,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We've been here ages,' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I went one stop past on the bus and had to walk
back,' said Johnny. 'Thinking about other things.
What's happening?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you mean what's happening, or sort of hey, my
man, what's happening?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's happening?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I want to go into J&amp;J Software,' said Wobbler.
'They might have got Cosmic Coffee Mats in. It got a
review in Bazzammm! and they said it's got an unbreak-
able copy protection.'
'Did they say it was any good?' said Bigmac.
'Who cares?'
'You'll get caught one day,' said Yo-less.
'Then you get given a job in Silicon Valley, designing
antipiracy software,' said Wobbler. Behind his two
thicknesses of glasses, his eyes lit up. Wobbler thought
that California was where good people went when they
died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, you don't. You just get in trouble and you get
sued,' said Yo-less. 'And the police take all your com-
puters away. There was something in the paper.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They wandered aimlessly towards the computer
shop.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I saw this film once, right, where there were these
computer games and if you were really good the aliens
came and got you and you had to fly a spaceship and
fight a whole bad alien fleet,' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Did you beat it? I mean, in the film, the alien fleet
got beaten?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac gave Johnny an odd look.
'Of course. Sure. There wouldn't be any point other-
wise, would there.'
'Only you can save mankind,' said Johnny.
'What?'
'It's the game,' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But it always says something like that on the boxes
you get games in,' said Johnny. Except if you get them
from Wobbler, he added to himself, when you just get
a disc.
'Well. Yeah. Something like that. Why not?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I mean they never say, "Only You are going to be
put inside a Billion Pounds Worth of Machine with
more Switches than you've Ever Seen and be Blown to
Bits by a Thousand Skilled Enemy Pilots because You
Don't Really Know how to Fly It."
They wandered past Mr Zippy's Ice Cream
Extravaganza.
'Can't see that catching on,' said Wobbler. 'Can't see
them ever selling a game called Get Shot to Pieces.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You still having trouble at home?' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's all gone quiet,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That can be worse than shouting.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's not that bad when your mum and dad split up,'
said Wobbler, 'although you get to see more museums
than is good for you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Still found no aliens?' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Not in the game.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Still dreaming about them?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Sort of.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone handing out leaflets about Big Savings on
Double Glazing gave one, in desperation, to Yo-less.
He took it gravely, thanked them, folded it in two and
put it in his pocket. Yo-less always filed this sort of
thing. You never knew when it might come in handy,
he said. One day he might want to doubleglaze his sur-
gery, and he'd be in a good position to compare offers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Anyone see the war on the box last night?' said
Bigmac. 'Way to go, eh?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Way to go where?' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We're really kicking some butt!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Some but what?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We'll give them the "Mother-in-law of All Battles",
eh?' said Bigmac, still trying to stir some patriotism.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nah. It's not like real fighting,' said Wobbler. 'It's
just TV fighting.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wish I was in the army,' said Bigmac, wistfully.
'Blam!' He shot the double-glazing lady, who didn't
notice. Bigmac had a habit of firing imaginary guns.
Other people played air guitar, he shot air rifles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Couple more years,' he said. 'That's all.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You ought to write to Stormin' Norman,' said
Wobbler. 'Ask him to keep the war going until you get
there.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He's done pretty well for someone called Norman,'
said Yo-less. 'I mean ... Norman? Not very macho,
is it? It's like Bruce, or Rodney.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He had to be Norman,' said Wobbler, 'otherwise he
couldn't be Stormin'. You couldn't have Stormin'
Bruce. Come on.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">J&amp;J Software was always packed on a Saturday morn-
ing. There were always a couple of computers running
games, and always a cluster of people gathered round
them. No-one knew who J&amp;J were, since the shop was
run by Mr Patel, who had eyes like a hawk. He always
watched Wobbler very carefully, on the fairly accurate
basis that Wobbler distributed more games than he did
and didn't even charge anyone for them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The four of them split up. Bigmac wasn't much
interested in games, and Yo-less went down to look at
the videos. Wobbler had found someone who knew
even more complicated stuff about computers than he
did himself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny mooched along the racks of games.
I wonder if the ScreeWee do this, he thought. Or
people on Jupiter or somewhere. Go down to a shop
and buy 'Shoot the Human' games. And have films
where there's a human running around the place ter-
rorizing a spaceship-
He became aware of a raised voice at the counter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You didn't often get girls in J&amp;J Software. Once,
quite a long time ago, during a bit of time she'd set aside
for parenting, Johnny's mother had tried playing a
game. It had been quite a simple one - you had to shoot
asteroids and flying saucers and things. It had been
embarrassing. It had been amazing that the flying
saucers had even bothered to shoot back. More likely
they should have parked and all the aliens could have
looked out of the windows and made rude noises.
Women didn't have a clue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A girl was complaining to Mr Patel about a game
she'd bought. Everyone knew you couldn't do that,
even if you'd opened the box and it was full of nothing
but mouse droppings. Mr Patel took the view that once
the transparent wrapper had come off, even the Pope
wouldn't be allowed to return a game, not even if he
got God to come in as well. This was because he'd met
people like Wobbler before.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boys watched in fascinated horror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She kept tapping the offending box with a finger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And who wants to see nothing but stars?' she said.
'I've seen stars before, actually. It says on the box that
you fight dozens of different kinds of alien ships. There
isn't even one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mr Patel muttered something. Johnny wasn't close
enough to hear. But the girl's voice had a kind of pene-
trating quality, like a corkscrew. When she spoke in
italics, you could hear them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, no. You can't say that. Because how can I tell
if it works without trying it? That comes under the Sale
of Goods Act (1983).'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The awed watchers were astonished to see a slightly
hunted look in Mr Patel's eyes. Up until now he'd never
met anyone who could pronounce brackets.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He muttered something else.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Copy it? Why should I copy it? I've bought it. It says
on the box you meet fascinating alien races. Well, all
I got was one ship and some stupid message on the
screen and then it ran away. I don't call that fascinating
alien races.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Message</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ran away</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny sidled closer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mr Patel muttered something else, and then turned
to one of the shelves. The shop watched in amazement.
There was a new game in his hand. He was actually
going to make an exchange. This was like Genghis
Khan deciding not to attack a city but stay at home and
watch the football instead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he held up his hand, nodded at the girl, and
stalked over to one of the shop's own computers, the
ones with so many fingermarks on the keys that you
couldn't read them any more.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Everyone watched in silence as he loaded up the copy
of the game that the girl had brought back. The music
came on. The title scrolled up the screen, like the one
in Star Wars. It was the usual stuff: 'The mighty
ScreeWee fleet have attacked the Federation,' whatever
that was, 'and only you...</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then there was space. It was computer space -
a sort of black, with the occasional star rolling past.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There ought to be six ships on the first mission,' said
someone behind Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mr Patel scowled at him. He pressed a key cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've just fired a torpedo at nothing, Mr Patel,'
said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally Mr Patel gave up. He waved his hands in the
air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How d'you find the things to shoot?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They find you,' said someone. 'You should be dead
by now.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'See?' said the girl. 'You get nothing but space. I left
it on for hours, and there was just space.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Maybe you're not persevering. You kids don't know
the meaning of the word persevere,' said Mr Patel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler looked over the shopkeeper's head to
Johnny and raised his eyebrows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's like persistently trying,' said Johnny helpfully.
'Oh. Right. Well, I persistently tried the other night
and I didn't find any, either.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mr Patel carefully unwrapped the new copy of the
game. The shop watched as he slotted the disc into the
computer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then let us see what the game looks like before
Mr Wobbler plays his little tricks,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the title screen. There was the story, such
as it was. And the instructions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Soon we shall see,' said Mr Patel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then more space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This one was only delivered yesterday.'
Lots more space. That was the thing about space.
Mr Patel picked up the box and looked at it carefully,
But they'd all seen him take off the polythene.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They've gone, thought Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Even on the new games.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They've all gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">People were laughing. But Wobbler and Yo-less
were staring at him.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36290616" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36290619" class="calibre8"></a>4 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">'No-one Really Dies'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I reckon,' said Bigmac, 'I reckon ...'
'Yes?' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I reckon ... Ronald McDonald is like Jesus Christ.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac did that kind of thing. Sometimes he came
out with the kind of big, slow statement that suggested
some sort of deep thinking had been going on for some
time. It was like mountains. Johnny knew they were
made by continents banging together, but no-one ever
saw it happening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?' said Yo-less, in a kind voice. 'And why do you
think this?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, look at all the advertising,' said Bigmac, wav-
ing a fry in the general direction of the rest of the burger
bar. 'There's this happy land you go to where there's
lakes of banana milkshake and - and trees covered in
fries. And ... and then there's the Hamburglar. He's
the Devil.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Mr Zippy's advertised by a giant talking ice cream,'
said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't like that,' said Yo-less. 'I wouldn't trust an
ice cream that's trying to get you to eat ice creams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Occasionally they talked like this for hours, when
there was something they didn't want to talk about.
But now they seemed to have run out of things to say.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They all looked silently at Johnny, who'd hardly
touched his burger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, I don't know what's happening,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Gobi Software're going to be really pissed off when
they find out what you've done,' said Wobbler,
grinning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I didn't do anything!' said Johnny. 'It's not my
fault!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Could be a virus,' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nah,' said Wobbler. 'I've got loads of viruses. They
just muck up the computer. They don't muck up your
head.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They could do,' said Yo-less. 'With flashing lights
and stuff. Kind of like hypnosis.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said before I was making it all up! You said I
was projecting fantasies!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That was before old Patel went through half a dozen
boxes. I'm glad I saw that. You know she actually got
another copy and her money back, actually?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny smiled uncomfortably.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler drummed his fingers on the table, or partly
on the table and partly in a pool of barbecue sauce.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, I still reckon it's just something Gobi Software
did to all the games. Cor, I like the virus idea, though,'
he said. 'Humans catching viruses off of computers?
Nice one.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's not like that,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They used to do this thing with films where they'd
put in just one frame of something, like an ice cream
or something, and it'd enter people's brains without
them knowing it and they'd all want ice cream,' said
Yo-less. 'Subliminal advertising, it was called. That'd
be quite easy to do on a computer.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny thought about the Captain showing him
pictures of her children. That didn't sound like hyp-
nosis. He didn't know what it did sound like, but it
didn't sound like hypnosis.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Perhaps they're real aliens and they're in control of
your computer,' said Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OOO eee OOO,' said Bigmac, waving his
hands in the air and speaking in a hollow voice. 'Johnny
Maxwell did not know it, but he had just strayed into</div>
<div class="paragraph">the Toilet Zone ... deedledeedle, deedledeedle,
deedledeedle . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'After all, you're supposed to be leading them to
Earth,' Yo-less went on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But that's just their own name for their own world,'
said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've only got their word for it. And they're
newts, too. You could be bringing them here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They all looked up, in case they could see through the
ceiling, T&amp;F Insurance Services and the roof to a huge
alien fleet in the sky above.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're just getting carried away,' said Wobbler.
'You can't invade a planet with a lot of aliens out of a
computer game. They live on a screen. They're not
real.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What're you going to do about it, anyway?' said
Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Just keep doing it, I suppose,' said Johnny. 'Who
was that girl in Patel's?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't know,' said Wobbler. 'Saw her in there once
before playing Cosmic Trek. Girls aren't much good at
computer games because they haven't got such a good
grasp of spatial . . - something or other like we have,'
he went on airily. 'You know. They can't think in
three dimensions, or something. They haven't got the
instincts for it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The Captain's a female,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's probably different for giant alligators,' said
Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac sucked a sachet of tomato ketchup.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you think IT might still be going when I'm old
enough to join the army?' he said, thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No,' said Yo-less. 'Stormin' Bruce'll get it all sorted
out. He'll kick some butt.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They chorused 'Some but what?' like tired monks.
They went to the cinema in the afternoon. Alabama
Smith and the Emperor's Crown was showing on Screen
5. Wobbler said it was racist, but Yo-less said he quite
enjoyed it. They discussed whether it could still be
racist if Yo-less enjoyed it. Johnny bought popcorn all
round. That was another thing about Trying Times -
pocket money was erratic, but you tended to get more
of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had spaghetti hoops when he got home, and
watched TV for a while. The pyramid-shaped man
disguised as a desert seemed to be on a lot now. He told
jokes sometimes. The journalists laughed a bit. Johnny
quite liked Stormin' Norman. He looked the sort of
man who could talk to the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then there was a programme about saving whales.
They thought it was a good idea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then you could win lots of money if you could put
up with the game show's host and not, for example,
choke him with a cuddly toy and run away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was the News. The walking desert again, and
pictures of bombs being dropped down enemy
chimneys with pin-point precision. And Sport.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">All right. Let's see.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yes. Space. And more space</div>
<div class="paragraph">No ScreeWee anywhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on, he thought. They're all in the big fleet,
aren't they. Following me. They followed me out of -
out of - out of game space. You must be able to get
there from here, if you keep going long enough. In the
right direction, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which way did I go?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Can I catch myself up?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Can anyone else catch me up?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He watched the screen for a while. It was even more
boring than the quiz show.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sooner or later he'd have to go to sleep. He'd thought
hard about this, while Alabama Smith was being chased
by bad guys through a native market-place</div>
<div class="paragraph">... Johnny had a theory about these market-places.
Every spy film and every adventure had a chase through
the native market-place, with lots of humorous
rickshaws crashing into stalls and tables being knocked
over and chickens squawking, and the theory was: it
was the same market-place every time. It always looked
the same. There was probably a stallholder somewhere
who was getting very fed up with it</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anyway...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd take his camera.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went to bed early with the camera strap wound
around his wrist. Cameras didn't dream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ship smelled human.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were no alarms, no hissing noises.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I'm back, thought Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And there was the ScreeWee fleet, spread out across
the sky behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And the camera, with its strap wrapped around his
arm. He untangled it quickly and took a photo of the
fleet. It whined out of the machine after a few seconds.
He held it under his armpit for a moment, and it
gradually faded up. Yep. The fleet. If he could get it
back, he'd have proof.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a red light flashing beside the screen on the
console. Someone wanted to talk to him. He flicked the
switch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We saw your ship explode,' came the voice of the Cap-
tain. The screen crackled for a moment, and then
showed her face. It looked concerned. 'And then it
returned again. You are alive?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Johnny, and then added, 'I think so.'
'Excuse me. I must ask. What happens to you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'When you ... go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny thought: What do I tell her? I stay awake
in school. I stay in my room a lot. I hang out with
Wobbler and the others. We hang around in the mall,
or in the park, or in one another's houses, although not
my house at the moment because of Trying Times, and
say things like 'I'm totally splanked' even though we're
not sure what they mean. Sometimes we go to the
cinema. We live in Blackbury, most excellent city of
cool.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I must have the most boring life in the entire
universe. I expect there's blobs living under rocks on
Neptune that have a more interesting life than me . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It'd be too hard to explain,' he said. 'I-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a ping from the radar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I have to go,' he said, feeling a bit relieved. Facing
someone else in mortal combat was better than trying
to tell a giant newt about Trying Times.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a ship coming in fast. It didn't seem to
notice him. Its screen must be full of ScreeWee ships.
It was in the middle of his targeting grid. Around
him, the starship hummed. He could feel the power
under his thumb. Press the button and a million volts
or amps or something of white-hot laser power would
crackle out and -
His thumb trembled.
It didn't seem to want to move.
But no-one dies! he told himself. There's just some-
one somewhere sitting in their room in front of a
computer! That's what it looks like to them! It's all
just something on a screen! No-one really dies!</div>
<div class="paragraph">I can fire right into his retro-tubes with pin-point
precision!</div>
<div class="paragraph">No-one really dies!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ship roared past him and onwards, towards the
fleet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the radar screen he saw two white dots, which
meant that it had fired a couple of missiles. They
streaked towards one of the smaller ScreeWee ships,
with the attacker close behind them, firing as he went.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee burst into flame. Johnny knew you
shouldn't be able to hear sound in space, but he did hear
it - a long, low rumble, washing across the stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The human ship turned in a long curve and came
back for another run.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's face appeared on the screen.
'We have surrendered! This must not be allowed!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry, I-'
'You must stop this now!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny let his own ship accelerate while he tried to
adjust the microphone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Game player! Game player! Stop now! Stop now
or -</div>
<div class="paragraph">Or what, he thought - or I'll shout 'stop' again?
He raised his thumb over the Fire button, took aim
at the intruder ...
'Please! I mean it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was plunging on towards another ship, taking no
notice of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right, then-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Blinding blue light flashed across his vision. He shut
his eyes and still the light was there, purple in the
darkness. When he opened them again the ship ahead
of him was just an expanding cloud of glittering dust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned in his seat. The Captain's ship was right
behind him. He could see its guns glowing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They never did this in the game. They had much
more firepower than you, but they used it stupidly.
It had to be like that. You could only win against
hundreds of alien ships if they had the same grasp of
gunnery techniques as the common cucumber.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This time, every gun had fired at exactly the same
time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's face appeared on the screen.
'I am sorry.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What? What happened?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It will not happen again, I promise you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What happened?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was silence. The Captain appeared to be look-
ing at something beyond the camera range.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There was an unauthorized firing,' she said. 'Those
responsible will be dealt with.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I was going after that ship,' said Johnny, uncertainly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yes. It is to be hoped that another time you can do so before
one of my ships is destroyed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry. I - I didn't want to fire. It's not easy,
shooting another ship.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How strange that a human should say that Clearly the
Space Invaders shot themselves?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What do you mean?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Were they doing you any harm?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, you've got the wrong idea,' said Johnny.
'We're not really like that!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Excuse me. Things appear differently from where I sit.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It would have been better if she had shouted, but she
didn't. Johnny could have dealt with it if she had been
angry. Instead, she just sounded tired and sad. It was
the same tone of voice in which she'd spoken about the
Space Invaders wreckage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he found he was quite angry too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She couldn't be talking about him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He picked spiders out of the bath, even if they'd got
soapy and didn't have much of a chance. Yet she'd
looked at him as if he was Ghengiz the Hun or some-
one ... after blowing a ship into bits.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I didn't ask for this, you know! I was just playing
a game! I've got problems of my own! I ought to be
getting a good night's sleep! That's very important at
my age! Why me?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why not?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, I don't see why I should have to be told how
nasty we are! You shoot at us as well!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Self-defence.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No! Often you shoot first!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'With humans, we have often found it essential to get our
self-defence in as soon as possible.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, I don't like it! Find someone else!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched off the screen and turned his ship away
from the fleet. He half expected the Captain to send
some fighters after him, but she did not. She didn't do
anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Soon the fleet was merely a large collection of yellow
dots on the radar screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hah! Well!</div>
<div class="paragraph">They could find their own way home. It wasn't as
if they needed him any more. The game was ruined.
Who was going to spend hours looking at stars?
They'd have to manage without him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Serve them right. He was doing things for them, and
they were only newts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Occasionally a star went past. You didn't get stars
going past in real space. But they had to put them in
computer games so that people didn't think they'd got
something like Wobbler's Journey to Alpha Centauri.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Interesting point. Where was he going?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The radar screen went bing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were ships heading towards him. The dots
were green. That meant 'friendly'. But the missiles
streaking ahead of them didn't look friendly at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on, hang on - what colour was he on their
radar?</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was important. Friendly ships were green and
enemy ships were yellow. He was a starship. A human
starship.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But on thc other hand, he'd been on the same side as
the ScreeWee, so he might show up-
He grabbed the microphone and got as far as 'Um,
I' before the rest of the sentence was spread out, very
thin, very small, against the stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He woke up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was 6:3=.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His throat felt cold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wondered why people made such a fuss about
dreams. Dream Boat. Dream River. Dream A Little
Dream. But when you got right down to it dreams
were often horrible, and they felt real. Dreams always
started out well and then they went wrong, no matter
what you did. You couldn't trust dreams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And he'd left the alarm set, even though this was
Sunday and there was nothing to do on a Sunday. No-
one else would be up for hours. it'd be a couple of hours
even before Bigmac's brother delivered the paper, or at
least delivered the wrong paper. And he was all stiff
from sitting at the computer, which wasn't switched
on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe tonight he'd put some stuff on the floor to
wake him up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went back to bed, and switched the blanket on.
He stared at the ceiling for a while. There was still
a model Space Shuttle up there. But one of the two bits
of cotton had come away from the drawing pin, so it
hung down in a permanent nosedive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something in the bed. He fumbled under
the covers and pulled out his camera.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which meant</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some more fumbling found a rectangle of shiny
paper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, yes. Huh. What'd he expect?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He got up again and turned the computer on, then
lay in bed so that he could watch the screen. Still more
fake stars drifted past.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe other people were doing this, too. All over
the country. All over the world, maybe. Maybe not
every computer showed the same piece of game space,
so that some people were closer to the fleet than others.
Or maybe some people were just persistent, like
Wobbler, and wouldn't be beaten.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You saw people like that in J&amp;J Software, some-
times. They'd have a go at whatever new game old
Patel had put on the machine, get blown to bits or eaten
or whatever, which was what happened to you on your
first time, and then you couldn't get rid of them with
a crowbar. You learned a bit more, and then you died.
That's how games worked. People got worked up.
They had to beat some game, in the same way that
Wobbler would spend weeks trying to beat a program.
Some people took it personally when they were blown
to bits.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So the ships he'd seen, then, were the ones who
wouldn't give up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the Captain hadn't been at all grateful to him!
It wasn't fair, making him feel like some kind of
monster. As if he'd like shooting anyone in cold blood!
They'd just totally destroyed another ship. OK, it was
attacking them after they had surrendered, but after all
it was a only a game .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Except, of course, it wasn't a game to the ScreeWee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And they'd surrendered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That didn't make them his responsibility, did it? Not
the whole time? It had been OK for a little while, but
he was getting tired of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He padded downstairs in the darkened house and
pulled the encyclopedia off its shelf under the video. It
had been bought last year from a man at the door,
who'd persuaded Johnny's father that it was a good
encyclopedia because it had a lot of colour pictures in
it. It did have a lot of colour pictures in it. You could
grow up knowing what everything looked like, if
you didn't mind not knowing much about what it
was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After ten minutes with the index he got as far as
prisoners of war, and eventually to the Geneva Conven-
tion. It wasn't something you could illustrate with big
coloured pictures so there wasn't much about it, but
what there was he read with interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was amazing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He'd always thought that prisoners were, well,
prisoners - you hadn't actually killed them, so they
ought to think themselves lucky. But it turned out that
you had to give them the same food as your own
soldiers, and look after them and generally keep them
safe. Even if they'd just bombed a whole city you had
to help them out of their crashed plane, give them
medicine, and treat them properly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the page. It was weird. The people
who'd written the encyclopedia - it said inside the cover
that they were the Universal Wonder Knowledge Data
Printing Inc, of Power Cable, Nebraska - had shoved
in all these pictures of parrots and stuff because they
were the Natural Wonders of the World, when what
was really strange was that human beings had come up
with an idea like this. It was like finding a tiny bit of
the Middle Ages in the middle of all the missiles and
things.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny knew about the Middle Ages because of
doing his essay on 'What it felt like to be a peasant in
the Middle Ages'. 'When a knight fell off his horse in
battle the other side weren't allowed to open him up
with a can opener and torture him, but had to look after
him and send him back home after a while, although
they were allowed to charge for the service.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the whole, the ScreeWee were letting him off
lightly. According to the Geneva Convention, he
ought to be feeding all of them as well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He put the book back and turned the television on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was odd. Someone was complaining that the
enemy were putting prisoners of war in buildings that
might be bombed, so that they could be bombed by
their own side. That was a barbaric thing, said the man.
Everyone else in the studio agreed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So did Johnny, in a way. But he wondered bow he
would explain something like this to the Captain.
Everything made sense a bit at a time. It was just when
you tried to think of it all at once that it came out
wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was too much war on television now. He felt
it was time to start showing something else.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went out into the kitchen and made himself some
toast, and then tried to scrape the burnt bits off quietly
so as not to wake people up. He took the toast and the
encyclopedia upstairs and got back into bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To pass the time he read some more about Switzer-
land, which was where Geneva was. Every man in the
country had to do army training and keep a gun at
home, it said. But Switzerland never fought anyone.
Perhaps that made sense somewhere. And what the
country used to be known for was designing intricate
and ingenious mechanical masterpieces that made a
little wooden bird come out and go cuckoo.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while he dozed off, and didn't dream at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the screen the fake stars drifted by. After an hour
or so a yellow dot appeared in the very centre. After
another hour it grew slightly bigger, enough to be seen
as a cluster of smaller yellow dots.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then Johnny's mother, who had come to see where
he was, tucked him up and switched it off.
'I cannot believe this! Why can't we fight!'</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36291423" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36291425" class="calibre8"></a>5 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">If Not You, Who Else?</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a constant smell of smoke and burnt plastic
in the ship now, the Captain noticed. The air condi-
tioners couldn't get rid of it any more. Some of the
smoke and burned plastic was the air conditioners.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She could feel the eyes of her officers on her. She
didn't know how many of them she could count on.
She got the feeling that she wasn't very popular.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked up into the eyes of the Gunnery Officer.
'You disobeyed my orders,' she repeated.
The Gunnery Officer looked around the control-
room with an air of injured innocence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But we were being attacked,' he said. 'They fired the
first shots.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I said that we would not fire,' said the Captain, try-
ing to ignore the background murmur of agreement. 'I
gave my word to the Chosen One. He was about to
fire.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But he did not,' said the Gunnery Officer. 'He
merely watched.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He was about to fire.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'About is too late. The tanker Kreewhea is destroyed.
Along with half our campaign provisions, I should
add ... Captain,' said the Gunnery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nevertheless, an order was directly disobeyed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain pointed out of the window. The fleet</div>
<div class="paragraph">was passing several more ships of the ancient Space</div>
<div class="paragraph">Invader race.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They fought,' she said. 'Endlessly. And look at them</div>
<div class="paragraph">now. And they were only the first. Remember what</div>
<div class="paragraph">happened to the Vortiroids? And the Meggazzoids?</div>
<div class="paragraph">And the Glaxoticon? Do you want to be like them?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hah. They were primitive. Very low resolution.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But there were many of them. And they still died.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If we are going to die, I for one would rather die</div>
<div class="paragraph">fighting,' said the Gunnery Officer. This time the mur-</div>
<div class="paragraph">mur was a lot louder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You would still be dead,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She thought: There'll be a mutiny if I shoot him or</div>
<div class="paragraph">imprison him. I can't fine him because none of us</div>
<div class="paragraph">have been paid. I can't confine him to his quarters</div>
<div class="paragraph">because.., she hated to think this.. . we might need</div>
<div class="paragraph">him, at the end.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You are severely reprimanded,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer smirked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It will go on your record,' the Captain added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Since we will not escape alive-' the Gunnery</div>
<div class="paragraph">Officer began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That is my responsibility,' said the Captain. 'You are</div>
<div class="paragraph">dismissed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer glared at her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'When we get home-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh?' said the Captain. 'Now you think we will get</div>
<div class="paragraph">home?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">By early evening Johnny's temperature was a hundred
and two, and he was suffering from what his mother
called Sunday night flu. He was lying in the lovely
warm glow that comes from knowing that, whatever
happens, there'll be no school tomorrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The backs of his eyeballs felt itchy. The insides of his
elbows felt hot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was what came of spending all his time in front of
a computer, he'd been told, instead of in the healthy
fresh air. He couldn't quite see this, even in his itchy-
eyeball state. Surely the fresh air would have been
worse? But in his experience being ill always came of
whatever you'd been doing. Parents would probably
manage to say it came of taking vitamins and wrapping
up nice and warm. He'd probably get an appointment
down at the health centre next Friday, since they
always liked you to be good and ill by the time you
came, so that the doctors could be sure of what you'd got.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could hear the TV downstairs. He spent twenty
minutes wondering whether to get out of bed to switch
on his old one, but when he moved there were purple
blurs in front of his eyes and an ongoing hum in his ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He must have managed it, though, because next time
he looked it was on, and the colours were much better
than usual. There were the newscasters - the black one
and the one who looked like his glasses fitted under his
skin instead of over the top - and there was the studio,
just like normal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Except that it had the words 'ScreeWee War' in the
corner, where there were usually words like 'Budget
Shock' or 'Euro Summit'. He couldn't hear what people
were saying, but the screen switched to a map of space.
It was black. That was the point of space. It was just
infinity, huge and black with one dot in it that was
everything else.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was one stubby red arrow in the middle of the
blackness. Several dozen blue ones were heading
towards it from the edge of the map. In one corner of
the map was a photo of a man talking into a phone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on, thought Johnny. I'm almost certain there
wasn't a BBC reporter with the ScreeWees. They'd
have said. Probably there isn't even a CNN one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He still wasn't getting any sound, but he didn't really
need any. It was obvious that humans were closing in
on the fleet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The scene changed. Now it showed a tent some-
where, and there was the huge man, standing in front
of another copy of the map.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This time the sound came up. He was saying:</div>
<div class="paragraph">... that Johnny? He's no fighter. He's no politician.
He goes home when the going gets tough. He runs out
on his obligations. But apart from that, hey, he's a real
nice kid . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's not true!' Johnny shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It isn't?' said a voice behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't look around immediately. By the sound of
it, the voice had come from his chair. And that was
much more impossible than the ScreeWee being on
television. No-one could sit in that chair. It was full of
old T-shirts and books and supper plates and junk.
There was a deep sock layer and possibly the Lost
Strawberry Yoghurt. No-one could sit down there
without special equipment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain was, though. She seemed quite at home.
He'd only ever seen her face on the screen. Now he
could see that she was about two metres long, but quite
thin - more like a fat snake with legs than an alligator
or a newt. She had two thick, heavy pairs about half-
way down, and two pairs of thinner ones at the top,
on a set of very complicated shoulders. Most of her was
covered in a brown overall; the bits that stuck out - her	
head, all eight hands or feet, and most of her tail - were
yellow-bronze, and covered in very small scales.
'If you parked out in the road Mrs Cannock opposite
will be really mad,' Johnny heard himself say. 'She goes
mad about my dad leaving his car parked out in the road
and it's not even a thousand metres long. So this is an
hallucination, isn't it?'
'Of course it is,' said the Captain. 'I'm not sure that
real space and game space are connected, except in your
head.'
'I saw this film once where spaceships could go any-
where in the universe through wormholes in space,'
said Johnny. 'That means I've got a wormhole in my
head?'
The Captain shrugged, which was a very interesting
sight in a being with four arms.
'Watch this,' she said. 'This is very impressive. I
expect this will be shown a lot.'
She pointed at the screen.
It showed stars, and a dot in the distance. It got big-
er very quickly.
'I think I know that,' said Johnny. 'It's one of your
ships. The sort you get on level seven, isn't it?'
'The type, I think, will not matter for long,' said the
Captain quietly.
The ship was heading away from the camera. Its
rocket exhausts got larger and larger. 'The camera
seemed to be mounted on a
'Missile?' said Johnny weakly.
The screen went blank.
Johnny thought of the dead Space Invader armada,
turning over and over in the frosty emptiness between
the game stars.
'I don't want to know about it,' said Johnny. 'I don't
want you to tell me how many ScreeWee there were
on board. I don't want you to tell me what happ-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No,' said the Captain, 'I expect you don't.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's not my fault! I can't help what people are
like!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Of course not.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain had a nasty way of talking in a reason-
able voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We are under attack,' she said. 'Humans are attack-
ing us. Even though we have surrendered.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but you only surrendered to me,' said Johnny.
'I'm just me. It's not like surrendering to a government
or something. I'm not important.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'On the contrary,' said the ScreeWee, 'you're the
saviour of civilization. You're all that stands between
your world and certain oblivion. You are the last hope.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But that's not . . real. That's just what it says at
the start of the game!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And you did not believe it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, it always says something like that!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Only you can save mankind?' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but it's not really true!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If not you, then who else?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look,' said Johnny. 'I have saved mankind. In the
game, anyway. There aren't any ScreeWee attack-
ing any more. People have to play it for hours to find
any.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain smiled. The shrug had been impressive.
But the Captain's mouth was half a metre long.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You humans are strange,' she said. 'You are warlike.
But you make rules! Rules of war!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Sometimes I think we don't always obey all those rules,'
said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another four-armed shrug.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Does that matter? Even to have made such rules
You think all of life is a game.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain pulled a small piece of silvery paper out
of a pocket of her overall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Your attackers have left us too short of food. So, by
your rules,' she said, 'I must ask for the following: fifteen
tonnes of pressed wheat extractions treated with sucrose;
ten thousand litres of cold bovine lactation; twenty-five
tonnes of the baked wheat extraction containing grilled
bovine flesh and trace ingredients, along with chopped
and fried tubers and fried and corn-extract-coated rings
of vegetables of the allium family; one tonne of crushed
mustard seeds mixed with water and permitted addi-
tives; three tonnes of exploded corn kernels coated with
lactic derivation; ten thousand litres of coloured water
containing sucrose and trace elements; fifteen tonnes
of prepared and fermented wheat extract in vegetable
juice; one thousand tonnes of soured lactic acid flavoured
with fruit extract. Daily. Thank you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The food of your fighting men,' explained the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Doesn't sound like food.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You are right,' said the Captain. 'It is disgustingly
lacking in fresh vegetables and dangerously high in
carbohydrates and saturated fats. However, it appears
that this is what you eat.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Me? I don't even know what that stuff is! What are
pressed wheat extractions treated with sucrose?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It said "Snappiflakes" on the packet,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Soured lactic acid?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You had a banana yoghurt.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny's lips moved as he tried to work this out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The grilled bovine flesh and all that stuff?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A hamburger and fries with fried onion rings.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny tried to sit up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Are you saying that I've got to go down to the shops
and get takeaway Jumboburgers for an entire alien
spacefleet?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not exactly.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I should think not-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'My Chief Engineer wants a Bucket of Chicken
Lumps.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What do ScreeWee usually eat?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Normally we eat a kind of waterweed. It contains a
perfect balance of vitamins, minerals and trace elements
to ensure a healthy growth of scale and crest.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then why-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But, as you would put it, it tastes like poo.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain stood up. It was a beautiful movement.
The ScreeWee body had no angles in it, apart from the
elbows and knees; she seemed to be able to bend wher-
ever she wanted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And now I must return,' she said. 'I hope your
attack of minor germs will shortly be over. I could only
wish that my attack of human beings was as easily
cured.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why aren't you fighting back?' said Johnny. 'I
know you can.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. You are wrong. We have surrendered.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We will not fire on human ships. Sooner or later, it
has to stop. We will run instead. Someone gave us safe
conduct.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The worst bit was that she didn't raise her voice,
or accuse him of anything, she just made statements.
Big, horrible statements.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right,' said Johnny, in a dull voice, 'but I know
it's not real. I've got the flu. You get mild hallucina-
tions when you get the flu. Everyone knows that. I
remember I was ill once and all the floppy bunnies on
the wallpaper started dancing about. This is like that.
You can't really know about this stuff. You're just in
my head.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What difference does that make?' said the Captain.
She stepped out through the wall, and then poked her
head back into the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Remember,' she said, 'only you can save mankind.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And I said I already-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'ScreeWee is only the human name for us,' said the
Captain. 'Have you ever wondered what the ScreeWee
word for ScreeWee is?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He must have slept, but he didn't dream. He woke up
in the middle of the afternoon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A huge ball of incandescent nuclear fire, heated to
millions of degrees, was shining brightly in the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The house was empty. His mother had left him a
breakfast tray, which was to say that she'd put together
a new Snappiflakes packet, a spoon, a bowl and a note
saying 'Milk in Fridge'. She'd also put her office phone
number on the bottom of the note. He knew what it
was anyway, but sometimes she used the phone number
like other people would use an Elastoplast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He opened the packet and fished around inside. The
alien was in a hygienic little paper bag. It was yellow,
and in fact did look a bit like the Captain, if you almost
shut your eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wandered aimlessly through the rooms. There
die of the day. It was all women talking to one another
on sofas. He sneaked a look out into the road, just in
case there were half-mile-long rocket-exhaust burns.
And then he went back upstairs and sat and stared at
the silent computer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">OK.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So ... you switch on. And there's the game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somehow it felt worse thinking about playing it by just</div>
<div class="paragraph">sitting in front of it now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the other hand, it was daytime, so most people
would be at school or at least keeping a low profile
somewhere. Johnny wasn't quite certain about game
time and real time, but maybe the attacks stopped when
people had to go to school? But no, there were prob-
ably people playing it in America or Australia or
somewhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Besides, when you died in your sleep you woke up,
so what happens now if you die while you're awake?</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the ScreeWee were getting slaughtered out
there. Or in there. Or in here.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain was stupid not to fire back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His hand switched on the computer without his
mind really being aware of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The game logo appeared. The music started up. The
same old message scrolled up the screen. He knew it by
heart. Savior of Civilization. Certain Oblivion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only You Can Save Mankind.
If Not You, Who Else?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He blinked. The message had scrolled off the top of
the screen. He couldn't have imagined that extra last
line ... could he?</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then the same old stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't touch the keyboard or the joystick. He
wasn't certain what direction he should be going in. On
the whole, straight on seemed best. For hours.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced at the clock. It was just gone four
o'clock. People would be home from school now.
They'd be watching Cobbers and She'll Be Apples and
Moonee Ponds. Bigmac would be watching with his
mouth open at his brother's. Wobbler would be watch-
ing while trying to rob some other poor computer
games writer of his just rewards. Yo-less probably
wouldn't be paying much attention, exactly; it'd just be
on while he did his homework. Yo-less always did his
homework when he got home from school and didn't
pay attention to anything else until it had been finished
to his satisfaction. But everyone watched Cobbers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Except Johnny, today.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He felt vaguely proud of that. The television was off.
He had other things to do.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somewhere in the last ten minutes he'd made a deci-
sion. He wasn't sure exactly what it was, but he'd made
it. So he had to see it through. Whatever it was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went to the bathroom and had a go with the ther-
mometer. It was an electronic one that his mother had
bought from a catalogue, and it also told the time.
Everything in the catalogue had a digital clock built in.
Even the golf umbrella that doubled as a Handy Picnic
Table. Even the thing for getting fluff out of socks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Away with Not Being Able to Know What the
Time is All the Time Blues,' said Johnny vaguely, and
stuck the thermometer in his mouth for the required
twenty seconds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His temperature was 16:04.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No wonder he felt cold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went back to bed with the thermometer still in
his mouth and looked at the screen again.
Still just stars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rest of them would probably be down at the mall
now, unless Yo-less was trying for an A+ with his
homework. Hanging out. Waiting for another day to
end.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He squinted at the thermometer. It read 16:O7.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Still nothing but stars on the screen ...</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36292032" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36292034" class="calibre8"></a>6 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Chicken Lumps In Space</div>
<div class="paragraph">He woke up. The familiar smell of the starship tickled
his nose. He cast his eyes over the control panel. He was
getting a bit more familiar with it now.
Right. So he was back in real life again. When he got
back to... when he got back to. . He'd have to have
a word with the medics about this odd recurring dream
that he was a boy in-
No! he thought. I'm me! Not a pilot in a computer
game! If I start thinking like that then I'll really die! Got
to take charge!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he noticed the other ships on the screen. He
was still along way from the fleet, of course. But there
were three other ships spread out neatly behind him,
in convoy. They were bigger and fatter than his and,
insofar as it was possible to do this in space, they seemed
to wallow rather than fly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hit the Communications button. A plump face
appeared on the screen.
'Wobbler?'
Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What are you doing in my head?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The on-screen Wobbler looked around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, according to this little panel riveted on
the control thingy, I'm flying a Class Three Light
head?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not sure,' said Johnny. By the main communica-
tion screen was another switch saying 'Conference
Facility'. He had a feeling he knew what it did.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sure enough, when he pressed it Wobbler's face
drifted to the top left-hand corner of the screen.
Yo-less's face appeared in the opposite corner, with
Johnny's own head above it. The other corner stayed
blank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny tapped a button.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Bigmac?' he said. 'Yo-less?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac's face appeared in the blank. He appeared to
be wiping his mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Checking the cargo?' said Johnny sarcastically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's full of hamburgers!' said Bigmac, in a voice like
a good monk who's just arrived in heaven and found
that all the sins of the flesh are allowed. 'Boxes and
boxes of hamburgers! I mean millions! With fries. And
one Bucket of Chicken Lumps, it says here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It says on this clipboard,' said Yo-less, 'that I'm fly-
ing a lot of Prepared Corn and Wheat Products. Shall
I go and see what they are?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK,' said Johnny. 'Then that means you're driving
the milk tanker, Wobbler.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. That's right. Bigmac gets burgers,
Wobbler gets boring milk,' moaned Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yo-less's face reappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Back there it's breakfast cereals, mainly,' he said. 'In
Giant-Jumbo-Mega-Civilization-Sized boxes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then Bigmac'd better bring his ship between you
and Wobbler,' said Johnny briskly. 'We can't risk a
collision.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Snap, crackle. fababababBOOM!' said Bigmac and
Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How can we?' said Yo-less. 'We're not dreaming.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK. OK. Um. So will we remember this when he
wakes up?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't think so. I think we're only here as projec-
tions from his own subconscious mind,' said Yo-less.
'He's just dreaming us.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You mean we're not real?' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not sure if I'm real,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It feels real,' said Wobbler. 'Smells real, too.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Tastes real,' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Looks real,' said Yo-less. 'But he's only imagining
we're here. It's not really us. Just the us that's inside his
head.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Don't ask me, thought Johnny. You were always
best at this stuff.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And I've just worked out, right,' said Yo-less, 'that
if we send in the boxtops from every single packet back
there we can get six thousand sets of saucepans, OK?
And twenty thousand books of football stickers and
fifty-seven thousand chances to win a Stylish Five-Door
Ford Sierra.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The four ships lumbered on towards the distant fleet.
Johnny's starship could easily outdistance the tankers,
so he flew in wide circles around them, watching the
radar screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was an occasional zip and sizzle from Wob-
bler's tanker. He was trying to take its computer apart,
just in case there were any design innovations Johnny
might remember when he woke up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ships appeared on the screen. There was the big
dot of the fleet and, around the edges of the screen,</div>
<div class="paragraph">A thought occurred to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Have those things got any guns on?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Er ... what do they look like?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's probably a red button on the joystick.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not got one on mine.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What about you, Wobbler? Bigmac?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nope.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Which one's the joystick?' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's the thing you're steering with.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah, wipe the mustard off and have a look,' said
Yo-less.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nothing on it,' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Unarmed, thought Johnny. And slow. One hit with
a missile and Wobbler is sitting inside the biggest
cheese in the universe. What happens to people in my
dream?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why does it always go wrong?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'll just go on ahead,' he said, and pressed the Fast
button.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were three players attacking the ScreeWee
fleet. It soon became two; Johnny had one in his sights
all the way in, curving away through the smoke-ring
of the explosion and heading for the next attacker so
fast that he was only just behind his own missile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was going after the Captain's ship, and the player
wasn't paying attention to his radar. Another explo-
sion, already behind Johnny as he looked for the third
player.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny realized he wasn't thinking about it. His eyes
and hands were doing all the work. He was just watch-
ing from inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The third player had spotted the tankers. It saw
him, turned and actually managed to get some shots
away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Oh, no. Johnny's mind whirred like a machine, judg-
ing speed and distance</div>
<div class="paragraph">He felt the ship buck under him, but he held it steady
until the crosshairs merged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he pressed his thumb down until a beeping
sound told him he hadn't got anything more to
fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while the red mist cleared. He found
thoughts slinking back into his mind again. They
moved slowly, uncertain of where they were, like
people drifting back into a bombed city, picking
through rubble, trying to find the old familiar shapes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a metallic taste in his mouth. His elbow
ached - he must have banged it on something during
the turn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He thought: No wonder we make rules. The Cap-
tain thinks it's strange, but we don't. We know what
we'd be like if we didn't have rules.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A light flashed by the communication screen. Some-
one wanted to talk to him. He flicked a switch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The face of the Captain appeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Halt, Johnny. What an efficient technique.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. But I had to-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Of course. And I see you have brought some friends.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said you needed food.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Even more so now. That last attack was severe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Aren't you firing at all?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. We have surrendered, I remind you. Besides, we must
not stop. Some of us at least will reach the Border.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Border?' said Johnny. 'I thought you were going to
a planet.'
'We must cross the Border first. Beyond the Border we are
safe. Even you cannot follow us. If we fight, all of us die. If
we run, some of us live.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't think humans can think like that,' said
Johnny. He glanced out of the cockpit. The tankers
were getting nearer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You are mammals. Fast. Hot-blooded. We are amphi-
bians. Cold-blooded. Slow. Logical. Some of us will get
across. We breed fast. To us, it makes sense. To me, it makes
sense.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's image moved to a corner of the screen.
Wobbler, Bigmac and Yo-less appeared in the other
three quarters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That was brilliant shooting,' said Bigmac. 'When
I'm in the army-
'There's a frog on my screen,' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's - . - she's the Captain,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A woman in charge?' said Yo-less.
'No wonder the aliens always lose,' said Wobbler.
'You should see the side of my mum's car.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. She can hear you, I think. Don't use sexist
language,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I invite your comrades to unload their welcome cargoes,'
she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They found out how to do it, eventually. The whole
of the middle of the tankers came away as one unit.
Small ScreeWee ships, not much more than a seat and
a pilot's bubble and a motor, nudged them into the
holds of the biggest ships. Without them, the tankers
were just a cockpit and engine and a big empty network
of girders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny watched the tank from Yo-less's ship drift
gently through the hatch of the Captain's ship.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You get them out of the packet,' he said, 'and you sort of find
something plastic falls into your bowl ... well, it's just
a joke. It's not on purpose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Thank you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If you save all the box tops you could probably win
a Ford Sierra,' said Yo-less. There was a slight tremble
in his voice as he tried to sound like someone who
talked to aliens every day. 'You could get your photo
in Competitor's Journal,' he added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That would be very useful. Some of the corridors in this
ship are very long.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't be daft,' said Bigmac. 'He'd - she'd never get
the spares.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Really? In that case we shall have to go for the six thou-
sand set of saucepans,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How do we get back?' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How did you get here?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler frowned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How did we get here?' he said. 'One minute I
was ... was ... and then here I was. Here we
were.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Come to that, where did all the milk and burgers
come from?' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's all right,' said Yo-less. 'I told you. We're not
really here anyway. We're just anxiety projections. I
read about it in a book.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's a relief, then,' said Wobbler. 'That's worth
knowing when you're a billion miles out in space.
Anyway ... so how do we get back?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't know,' said Johnny. 'I generally do it by
dying.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is there some other way?' said Yo-less, after a long,
thoughtful pause.
'You don't have to die to get out,' said Johnny. 'I think you can
probably just fly back. I'm not definitely sure any harm
can come to you. You're not playing... in your heads,
I mean.'
'Well-' Wobbler began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But I should go soon, if I was you,' said Johnny.
'Before some more players arrive.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We'd stay and help,' said Wobbler, 'but there's no
guns on these things, you see.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sounded worried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah. Silly of me not to have dreamed of any,' said
Johnny, kindly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less might be right and we're just stuff in your
head,' said Wobbler. 'But even people in dreams don't
want to die, I expect.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You going to be in school tomorrow?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Might be.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right. Well, then ... chow.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'See you.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You hang in there, right, Johnny?' said Yo-less
anxiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'll try to.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah, give them aliens hell, my man!' said Bigmac,
as the tankers turned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny could hear them still talking as the three ships
accelerated away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That was a foe-par, Bigmac. Johnny's on the aliens'
side!'
'What? You mean they're on our side?'
'No, they're on their side. And so is he.'
'Whose side are we on, then?'
'We're on his side.'
'Oh. Right. Er. Yo-less?'
'What?'
'So who's on our side?'
'Eh? He is, I suppose.'
'So is there anyone on the other side?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ships became dots on the radar, and then
vanished off the edge of the screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Where to, Johnny had no idea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I may have wished them here, or dreamed them, or
something. But I mustn't do it again. Maybe they're
not really here, but I don't want to see my friends die.
I don't want to see anybody die.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At least I'm on my side.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He scanned the sky. After a while the Captain said:
'You are not leaving?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not yet.'
'Until you die, you mean.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's the only way out,' he said. 'Fight until you die.
That's how all games go. You just hope you can get a
bit further each time.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were still no more attackers on the screen. The
fleet looked as if it wasn't moving, but it had built up
quite a speed. Every second was taking it further from
game space. Every second meant that fewer and fewer
players would have the patience or determination to go
on looking for it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He helped himself to some of the horrible nourishing
soup from its spigot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I believe I upset you some time ago by suggesting that
humans are bloodthirsty and dangerous'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well. Yes. A bit.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'In that case ... I would like to say ... I am grateful.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't understand.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That you are on our side.'
'Yes, but I'm not bloodthirsty.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then I think perhaps a little while ago someone else must
have been flying your ship?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. It's hard to explain it to you,' said Johnny. First
of all, he'd have to be able to explain it to himself.
'Shall I embark upon a less troubling topic of conversation?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You don't have to,' said Johnny. 'I mean, you're in
charge. You must have things to do.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, spaceships fly themselves,' said the Captain. 'They
keep going until they hit things. There is little to do. Tend
the wounded and so on. I seldom have a chance to talk to
humans. So ... What is sexist?'
'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It was a word you used.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, that. It just means you should treat people as</div>
<div class="paragraph">people and, you know ... not just assume girls can't</div>
<div class="paragraph">do stuff. We got a talk about it at school. There's lots</div>
<div class="paragraph">of stuff most girls can't do, but you've got to pretend</div>
<div class="paragraph">they can, so that more of them will. That's all of it,</div>
<div class="paragraph">really.'
'Presumably there's, uh, stuff boys can't do?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. yeah. But that's just girls' stuff,' said Johnny.
'Anyway, some girls go and become engineers and
things, so they can do proper stuff if they want.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Transcend the limitations of their sex. Outdo the other sex,
even. Yes. It is much the same with us. Some individuals show</div>
<div class="paragraph">an awe inspiring desire to succeed, to make a career in a field
not traditionally considered to be appropriate to their gender.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You, you mean,' said Johnny.
'I was referring to the Gunnery Officer.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But he's a man - I mean, a male.'
'Yes. Traditionally, ScreeWee warriors are female. They
are more inclined to fight. Our ancestors used to have to fight
to protect their breeding pond. The males do not do battle. But
in his case-
A speck appeared on the radar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny put down his cup and watched it carefully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Normally, players headed straight for the fleet. This
one didn't. It hovered right on the edge of the screen
and stayed there, keeping pace with the ScreeWee ships.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while, another dot appeared from the same
direction, and kept on coming.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This one at least looked like just another player.
There was a nasty equation at the back of Johnny's
mind. It concerned missiles. There were the six missiles
per level in Only You Can Save Mankind. Once you'd
fired them, that was it. So the longer he stayed alive,
the less he had to fight with. But all the attacking
players would have six missiles each. He'd only got four
now. When they were gone, it'd just be guns. One
missile in the right place would blow him up. Losing
was kind of built-in, in the circumstances.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The attacker came on. But Johnny kept finding his
gaze creeping to the dot at the edge of the screen.
Somehow it had a watchful look, like a shark trailing
a leaky airbed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He switched on the communicator.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Attacking ship! Attacking ship! Stop now!'
They can't speak, Johnny thought. They're only a
player, they're not in the game. They can't speak and
they can't listen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He found he'd automatically targeted a missile on the
approaching dot. But that couldn't be the only way.
Sooner or later you had to talk, even if it was only
because you'd run out of things to throw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The attacker fired a missile. It streaked past Johnny</div>
<div class="paragraph">and away, heading on into empty space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not real, Johnny thought. You have to think they're</div>
<div class="paragraph">not real. Otherwise you can't do it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Attacking ship! This is your last chance! Look, I</div>
<div class="paragraph">mean it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pressed the button. The ship juddered slightly as</div>
<div class="paragraph">a missile took off. The attacker was moving fast. So was</div>
<div class="paragraph">the missile. They met and became an expanding red</div>
<div class="paragraph">cloud. It drifted around Johnny's ship like a smoke ring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone, somewhere, was blinking at their screen</div>
<div class="paragraph">and probably swearing. He hoped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The dot was still on the edge of the screen. It was</div>
<div class="paragraph">irritating him, like an itch in a place he couldn't scratch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Because that wasn't how you were supposed to play.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You spotted some aliens and you shot at them. That</div>
<div class="paragraph">was what the game was supposed to be about.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lurking in the distance and just watching made him</div>
<div class="paragraph">uneasy. It looked like the kind of thing people would</div>
<div class="paragraph">do if they were ... well</div>
<div class="paragraph">taking it seriously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain sat in front of her desk, watching the big
screen. She was chewing. Anything was better than
waterweed, even - she looked at the packet - even
Sugar-Frosted Corn Crackles in cold bovine lactation.
Sweet and crunchy, but with odd hard bits in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She inserted a claw into her mouth and poked around
among her teeth until she found the offending object.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pulled it out and looked at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was green, and had four arms. Most of them were
holding some sort of weapon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wondered again what these things were. The
Chief Medical Officer had suggested that they were, in
fact, some sort of vermin which invaded food sources.
There was a theory among the crew that they were
things to do with religion. Offerings to food gods,
perhaps?</div>
<div class="paragraph">She put it carefully on one side of her desk. In the
right light, she thought, it looked a bit like the Gun-
nery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then she opened the little cage beside the bowl and
let her birds out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There had been things very like alligators among the
ScreeWee's distant ancestors, and some habits had been
handed down. The Captain opened her mouth fully,
which made her lower and upper jaws move apart in a
way that would make a human's eyes water.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The birds hopped in, and began to clean her teeth.
One of them found a small piece of plastic ray-gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The watching ship was moving, still keeping at a
great distance, travelling around the fleet in a wide cir-
cle. It had watched one more attacker come in; Johnny
had got rid of this one with a missile and some shots.
although a flashing red light on the panel was sug-
gesting that something, somewhere, wasn't working
any more. Probably those secondary pumps again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He found he was turning the ship all the time to keep
the distant dot in front of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes? Are you watching it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. It is moving between us and the Border. It is in our
direct line of flight now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You can't sort of steer around it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There are more than three hundred ships in the fleet That
may be difflcult.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It seems to be waiting for something. I'll... I'll risk
going to have a look.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He let his ship overtake the fleet and run ahead of it,
towards the distant dot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It made no attempt to get out of his way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a starship just like his own. In fact, in a
way ... it was his starship. After all, there was only
one starship in the entire game, the one You flew to
Save Mankind. Everyone was flying the same one
in a way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It hung against the stars, as lifeless as a Space Invader.
Johnny moved a bit closer, until he could see the
cockpit and even the shape of a head inside. It had a
helmet on. Everyone did - it was on the cover of the
box. You wore a helmet in a starship. He didn't know
why. Maybe the designers thought you were likely to
fall off when you went round corners.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He tried the communicator again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hello? Can you hear me?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was nothing but the background hiss of the
universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm pretty sure you can. I've got a feeling about it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tiny blob of the helmet turned towards him.
You could no more see through the smoked glass of
the helmet than you could through a pair of sunglasses
from the outside, but he knew he was being stared
at.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What are you waiting for?' said Johnny. 'Look, I
know you can hear me, I don't want to have to-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other ship roared into life. It accelerated towards
the oncoming fleet on two lances of blue light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny swore under his breath and kicked his
own engines into life. There was no hope of over-
taking the attacker. It had a head start, and a
starfighter's top speed was a starfighter's top speed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was just out of gun range. He raced along behind</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ahead, he could see some of the big capital ships of
the fleet manoeuvring clumsily out of the way. They
spread out slowly, trying to avoid colliding with one
another. Seen from the front, it was like watching the
petals of a flower opening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The attacker roared for the middle of the fleet. Then
it rolled gently and fired six missiles, one after another.
A moment later, two of the small ScreeWee fighters
exploded and one of the larger ships spun around as it
was hit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The attacker was already heading for another fighter.
Johnny had to admit it - it was beautiful flying. He'd
never realized before how badly most players flew.
They flew like people who lived on the ground - from
right to left and up and down, woodenly. Like someone
moving something on a screen, in fact.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the attacker rolled and twisted like a swallow in
flight. And every turn brought another ScreeWee ship
under its guns. Even if they had been firing back, it
wouldn't have been hit, except by accident. It pirouetted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's face appeared on the screen.
'You must stop this!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm trying! I'm trying! Don't you think I'm trying!'
The attacker turned. Johnny hadn't thought it was
possible for a starship to skid, but this one did. It paused
just for a moment as its jets slowed it down, and then
accelerated back the way it had come.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right down his sights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, stop!' he shouted. He had a missile ready.
Why even bother to shout? Players couldn't hear, they
only saw the game on the screen-
'Who are you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a very clear voice, and very human. The Cap-
tain sounded as though she'd learned the language out
of a book, but this voice was one that someone had
really used since they were about one year old.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You can hear me!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Get out of the way, stupid!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The two pilots stared at one another across a distance
that was getting smaller very, very fast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I've heard that before, Johnny thought. That voice.
You can hear all the punctuation .</div>
<div class="paragraph">They didn't crash - exactly. There was a grinding
noise as each starship scraped the length of the other,
ripping off fins, ripping open tanks, and then spun
drunkenly away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The control panel in front of Johnny became a mass
of red lights. There were cracks racing across the
cockpit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Idiot!' screamed the radio.
'It's all right,' said Johnny urgently. 'You just wake
up -
His ship exploded.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36293043" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36293045" class="calibre8"></a>7 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The Dark Tower</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was 16:34 by the thermometer. Time was different
in game space.
No matter how often you died, you never got used
to it. It wasn't as if you got better with pract-
She'd heard him. Inside the game.
He sat up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee were inside the game because it was
their world. Wobbler and the rest hadn't really been in
it; he was pretty sure he'd just dreamed them in because
he needed someone to pilot the food tankers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he'd heard her in Patel's. That ringing, sharp
voice, which made it very clear that its owner thought
everyone in the whole world was dim-witted and had
to be talked to like a baby or a foreigner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the screen, empty space rolled onwards.
He had to find her. Apart from anything else, no-one
who flew like that should be allowed anywhere near the
ScreeWee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler'd probably know who she was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He found the room moving around him when he
stood up. He probably really was ill, he thought.
Well, not surprising. What with Trying Times and
stupid school and parents trying to be friends and
now having to save an entire alien race instead of..</div>
<div class="paragraph">He made it to the hail and took the phone off its base
and brought it back upstairs. He'd just extended the
aerial when it rang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um, hello - Blackbury-two-three-nine-nine-eight-
zero-who's-that-speaking-please?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is that you? This is me.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. Hello, Wobbler.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You ill or something?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Flu. Look, Wobbler-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You seen the papers today?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. Mum and Dad take them to work with them.
Wobbler-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Thing in the papers about Gobi Software. Hang
on ... says, "NO ENCOUNTERS OF THE
TWENTY-FIRST KIND." That's the headline.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What does it say?' he said, very cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What does "inundated" mean?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'S'like "overwhelmed",' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Says that Gobi Software and computer games shops
have been ... inundated with complaints about Only
You Can Save Mankind. Because they made that offer of
five pounds if you shoot all the aliens, and it says people
aren't finding any aliens. And Gobi Software are in
trouble because of the Trades Descriptions Act. And
they keep on using the word hacker,' said Wobbler, in
the sneering tones of one who knows what a hacker
really is and knows that most journalists don't. 'And
there's a quote from Al Rampa, president of Gobi. He
says they're recalling all the games, and if you send back
the original discs they'll send you a token for their
new game, Dodge City 1888. That got four stars in
FAAzzzzAAAP!.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but you haven't got the original discs,' said
Johnny. 'You hardly ever have any original discs.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, but I know the guy whose brother bought it,'
said Wobbler happily. 'So it was just a problem with
the game, right? You weren't mental after all.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I never said I was mental,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, but ... well, you know,' said Wobbler. He
sounded embarrassed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wobbler?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You know that girl who was in Patel's?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. her. What about her?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'D'you know who she is?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She's someone's sister, I think.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Whose?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Goes to some kind of special school for the termi-
nally clever. She's called Kylie or Krystal or one of
those made-up names. What do you want to know
for?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, nothing. Just because she complained about the
game in Patel's, I suppose. Whose sister is she?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Some guy called ... oh ... Plonker. Yeah. Friend
of Bigmac's. You sure you're all right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. Fine. Cheers.'
'Cheers. You going to be in tomorrow?'
'Spect so.'
'Cheers.'
'Cheers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac wasn't on the phone. Where Bigmac lived,
people hardly even got letters. Even muggers were
frightened to go there. People talked about the Joshua
N'Clement block in the same way that they probably
Spanish Inquisition's reception area.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tower loomed all alone, black against the sky,
like someone's last tooth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There wasn't much else around the place. There was
a row of boarded up shops, but you could see where
the fire had been. And there was a pub made out of
neon lights and red brick; it was called The Jolly
Farmer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tower had won an award in 1965, just before
bits had started falling off. It was always windy. Even
on the calmest day, gales whistled icily through the
concrete corridors. The place was some kind of wind
reservation. If the Joshua N'Clement block had existed
a few thousand years ago, people would have come
from all over the country to sacrifice to the wind god.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny's father called it Rottweiler Heights. Johnny
could hear them barking as he walked up the stairs (the
lifts had stopped working in 1966). Everyone in the
tower seemed afraid, and mostly they seemed afraid of
one another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac lived on the fourteenth floor, with his
brother and his brother's girlfriend and a pit bull terrier
called Clint. Bigmac's brother was reliably believed to
be in the job of moving video recorders around in an
informal way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny knocked cautiously, hoping to be loud
enough to be heard by the people but quiet enough to
be missed by Clint. No such luck. A wall of sound
erupted from behind the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a while there was the clink of a chain and the
door opened a few centimetres. A suspicious eye
appeared at about the height an eye should be, while a
metre below there was a certain amount of confused
activity as Clint tried to get both eyes and his teeth into
the same narrow crack.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is Bigmac in?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dunno.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny knew about this. There were only four
rooms in the flat. Bigmac's family was huge and lived
all over the town, and practically no member of it knew
where any other member was until they were quite sure
who was asking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's me, Johnny Maxwell. At school.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Clint was trying to push a fifteen-centimetre-wide
head through a five-centimetre-wide hole.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. yeah.' Johnny felt that he was being carefully
surveyed. 'He's down the pub. Yeah.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, right,' said Johnny in what he hoped was a nor-
mal voice. 'I mean, yeah.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac was thirteen. But the landlord of The Jolly
Farmer was reputed to serve anyone who didn't actually
turn up on a tricycle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His way home led back past the pub anyway. He
agonized a bit about going in. It was all right for
Bigmac. Bigmac had been born looking seventeen. But
Bigmac turned out to be outside anyway, leaning
against the bonnet of a car. He had a couple of friends
with him. They watched Johnny intently as he
approached, and the one who had been nonchalantly
fiddling with the car's door handle stood up and glared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny tried to swagger a bit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah, Johnny,' said Bigmac, in a vague kind of
way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He's different here, Johnny thought. Older and
harder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other youths relaxed a little. Bigmac knew
Johnny. That made him acceptable, for now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't often see you up here,' said Bigmac. 'You
drinking now or what?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny got the feeling that asking for a Coke would
definitely be bad for his street cred. He decided to
ignore the question.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm looking for Plonker,' he said. 'Wobbler said you
know him?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What d'you want him for?' said Bigmac.
On the wall in school, or down at the mall, Bigmac
wouldn't have even asked. But there were different
rules here. Like, in school Bigmac tried to hide how
good he was at numbers, and up here he had to hide his
ability to hold a normal conversation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny saw a way through.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Actually I'm looking for his sister,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One of Bigmac's friends sniggered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac took Johnny's arm and led him a little way
off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What'd you come up here for?' he said. 'You
could've asked me tomorrow.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's ... important.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Bigmac! You coming or what?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac glanced over his shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can't,' he said. 'Got to sort out something else.'
One of the kids said something to the other one, and
they both laughed. Then they got into the car. After
a little while it started up, bumped up on to the pave-
ment and off again, and then accelerated into the night.
They heard the tyres screech as it turned the corner on
the wrong side of the road.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac relaxed. Suddenly he was a lot less tough.
and a bit shorter, and more like the amiable not-quite-
thicko Johnny had always known.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Didn't you want to go with them?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're a right nerd, aren't you,' said Bigmac, in a
friendly enough voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wobbler says you have to say dweeb now, not nerd,'
said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I usually say dickhead. Come on, let's go,' said
Bigmac. 'Cos there'll probably be some unhappy
people around here pretty soon. 'S'their own fault for
leaving a car here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dweeb. You don't know nothing about real life,
you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's just games,' said Johnny, half to himself. 'All dif-
ferent sorts. Bigmac?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Somewhere away in the distance a car horn wailed,
and was suddenly cut off. Bigmac stopped walking.
The breeze blew his T-shirt against him, so that 'Ter-
minator' was superimposed on a chest that looked like
a toast rack.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, have you ever wondered what's real and what
isn't?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Bloody stupid thing to wonder,' said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Reals real. Everything else isn't.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What about, - well, dreams?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nah. They're not real.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They've got to be something. Otherwise you couldn't
have them, right?' said Johnny desperately.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but that's not the same as really real.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Are people on television real?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Course!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why're we treating them as a game, then?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You mean ... on the News-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's different. You can't have people going
around doing what they like.'
'But we-'
'Anyway, space games aren't real,' said Bigmac. He
kept looking down the dark street.
Johnny relaxed a little.
'Are you real?'
'Dunno. Feel real. It's all crap anyway.
'What is?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Everything. So who cares? Come on, I'm going
back home.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They strolled past what had been, in 1965. an
environmental green space and was now a square of
dog-poisoned earth where the shopping trolleys went
to die.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Plonker's a bit of a maniac,' said Bigmac. 'Bit of a
wild man. Bit of a loony. Lives in a big posh house,
though.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Where?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. in Tyne Avenue or Crescent or somewhere,'
said Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A blue light lit his face for a moment as a police car
flashed past the end of the road, its siren dee-dahing into
the distance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac froze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's his real name?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Eh? Yeah. Carry. I think.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac was staring at the end of the road. The blue
light was still visible. It had stopped about half a mile
away; they could see it reflected off an advertising
hoarding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Just Carry?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac's face was wet in the light of the street lamps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Might be Dunn,' said Bigmac. He shifted uneasily
from one foot to the other.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another siren echoed around the night. An ambu-
lance went past on the main road, ghostly under its
flashing light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, Bigmac-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Bugger off!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac turned and ran, his Doc Marten's crashing on
the pavement. Johnny watched him go. He thought of
all the things he should have said. He wasn't stupid.
Everyone knew what happened to cars around the dark
tower. What could he say now?</div>
<div class="paragraph">And his body thought: You don't say anything. You
do something. It started running all by itself after his
friend, taking his brain with it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Despite a bedroom full of weight-training equipment
that would have been of considerable interest if the
police had ever bothered much about a recent theft
down at the Sports Centre, Bigmac wasn't in much of
a condition. He had been born out of condition. Johnny
caught him up on the bend.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I told you ... to ... buggeroff! Nothing
todo ... withyou!' said Bigmac. as they headed
towards the distant lights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They crashed it, didn't they.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nozzer's a good driver!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah? Good at going fast?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a crowd standing around at the traffic
lights further down the road. As they ran, another
ambulance overtook them and rocked to a halt. The
crowd parted. Johnny caught a glimpse of - well, not
a car, but maybe what a car would look like after trying
to be in the same place as a liquid-cement truck. It had ridden
up the pavement and lay on its side. Its load was fast
becoming the biggest brick in the world.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the distance there was the scream of a fire engine,
getting nearer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He grabbed Bigmac's arm, pulling him around.
'I don't think you want to go any closer,' he said.
Bigmac shook himself free, just as the police managed
to lever the crumpled door open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac stared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he turned, tottered over to a low garden wall
by the roadside, and was sick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When Johnny reached him his whole body was shak-
ing, with cold and terror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Bugger you, I could have been in that, you-'
Bigmac was sick again, all down the front of Arnold
Schwarzenegger. Johnny took his coat off and put it
over the other boy's shivering shoulders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'they kept goin' on at me, I told them, I said-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah. Yeah, that's right,' said Johnny, looking
around. 'Look, you just sit here ... there's a phone,
You just sit there, all right? You just-'
'Don't go away?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What? Oh. Yes. Right. Come on then'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Click!</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hello, this'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less? It's Johnny.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Your mum in the hospital tonight?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, she's on days this week. Why?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can you get her to bring her car down to
Witheridge Road?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's up? You sound as if you've been'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, shut up! Get her to do it, right? Please! It's
Bigmac!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's up with him?'
'Yo-less! This is important! This is really important!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You know how she goes on when I-'
less I'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, all right. Hey, is that a siren?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We're in a phone box. You'd better get her to bring
a blanket or something. And hurry up, it's dead smelly
in here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That was a siren, wasn't it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He put the phone down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac wasn't being sick any more. He hadn't got
anything to be sick with. He was just leaning against
the door, shaking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She'll be along right away,' said Johnny, as cheer-
fully as he could manage. 'She's a ward sister. She
knows all about this stuff.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Outside, one of the ambulances drove away. Firemen
were all over the wreck. Some of them were getting
equipment off the engine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac stared at the scene.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're probably fine,' lied Johnny. 'It's amazing
how people can'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No-one's fine who looked like that,' said Bigmac, in
a flat voice. 'There was blood all over.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well '</div>
<div class="paragraph">'My brother'll kill me when he finds out. He said if
I have the cops round again he'll throw me out of the
window. He'll kill me if he finds out.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He won't, then. You didn't do anything. We were
just hanging out and you felt ill. That's all.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He'll kill me!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What for? No-one knows anything except me, and
I don't know anything. I promise.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was gone eight when Johnny got home. He left his
coat in the shed until he could sneak it in and sponge
it off, and said he'd been round at Yo-less's, which was
true, and was a pretty good way of avoiding questions,
because his parents approved of Yo-less on racial
grounds. To object to him being round at Yo-less's
would be like objecting to Yo-less. Yo-less was dead
handy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anyway, it wasn't as if anyone had cooked any
dinner. Mrs Yo-less had made him a hot chocolate
when he was there, but he hadn't accepted a meal,
because that suggested you didn't have them all that
often at home and you didn't do that. She'd put Bigmac
to bed. Bigmac with his skinhead haircut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He microwaved himself something called a Pour-On
Genuine Creole Lasagne, which said it served four por-
tions. It did if you were dwarfs:</div>
<div class="paragraph">The phone went as he was carrying it upstairs. It was
Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less just rang me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why didn't you get them to put him in an
ambulance?'.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who with?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a moment of silence from Wobbler as he
worked this out. Then he said, 'Yuk.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Anyway, people'd ask questions. Bigmac's been in
enough trouble as it is, what with his brother and one
thing and another.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wow!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Got to go now, Wobbler. Got to eat my dinner
before it congeals.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He put the phone down on the tray, and looked at
it. There was something else he was going to do. What
was it? Something, anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lasagne looked real. It looked as though someone
had already eaten it once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain looked up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Most of her officers were standing in front of her.
Except for the Gunnery Officer, who was looking
smug, they all wore rather embarrassed expressions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To her surprise, it wasn't the Gunnery Officer who
spoke. It was the Navigation Officer, a small and
inoffensive ScreeWee who suffered from prematurely
shedding scales.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?' said the Captain again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. We - that is, all of us-' said the Navigation
Officer, looking as if she wished she was somewhere
else, '-we feel that, uh, the present course is, uh, an
unwise one. With respect,' she added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'In what way?' said the Captain. She could see the
Gunnery Officer grinning behind the little ScreeWee.
No-one could grin like a ScreeWee - their mouths were
built for it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We, uh - that is, all of us - we are still being
attacked. And that last attack was a terrible one.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Chosen One stopped it, at the cost of his own
life,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. He will return;' said the Navigation Officer.
'Um. Twenty of our people will not.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain wasn't really looking at her. She was
staring at the Gunnery Officer, whose grin was now
wide enough to hold a set of billiard balls and probably
the cue too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He's been talking to them, she told herself. Every-
one's on edge, no-one can think straight, and he's
talking to them. I should have had him shot. They
wouldn't have liked it, but I could probably have
shouted them down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So what is it you are suggesting?' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. We - that is, all of us,' said the little ScreeWee,
with an imploring glance at the Gunnery Officer, 'we
feel we should turn and-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Fight?' said the Captain. 'Make a last stand?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Yes. That's right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And that's the feeling of all of you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The officers nodded, one after another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Sorry. ma'am,' said the Navigation Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The others stood and fought,' said the Captain.
'The.. . Space Invaders. And the others. We've all seen
the wrecks. All they knew was how to attack. They
stood and fought, and fought and died.'
'We are dying too, um,' said the Navigation Officer.
'I know. I am sorry,' said the Captain. 'But many are</div>
<div class="paragraph">living. And every minute takes us further from danger.
We are so near the Border! If we stop ... you know</div>
<div class="paragraph">what will happen. Game space will move. The Border
will retreat. The humans will find us. And then they
will-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Die,' said the Gunnery Officer. 'And we shall win.
We shall give the humans the mother of all battles.'
'Ah, yes,' said the Captain. 'Mother and grand-
mother of battles. Battles that breed more battles.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And this is your leader speaking,' sneered the Gun-
nery Officer. 'The leader of the fleet. It is pathetic.
Cowardly.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'When we are home-' the Captain began.
'Home? This is our home! We have no other! All
this talk of the Border, and a planet of our own
Have any of us seen it? No! It's a legend. Wishful
thinking. A dream. We lie to ourselves. We make up
stories. The Chosen One. The Hero with a Thousand
Extra Lives! It's all dreams! We live and breed and die
on our ships. That is our destiny. There is no choice!'</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36293929" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36293931" class="calibre8"></a>8 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Peace Talks, Peace Shouts</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny awoke in the starship.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Normally he was some way from the fleet, but this
time it was around him. There were ScreeWee ships on
every side.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were flying the wrong way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Immediately, a face appeared on the screen. Except
for a few differences on the crest, and a slight orange
tint to the scales, it might have been the Captain.
'Calling the human ship.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who are you?'
'I am the new Captain. These are my instructions-'
'What happened to the old Captain?'
'She is under arrest. These are my instructions -'
'Arrest? What for? What did she do?'
'She did nothing. Listen to me. You have sixty seconds to
get beyond range of our guns. For honour. After that, you will
be fired upon with extreme force.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hang on-'
'The count has started.'
'But-'
'End of communication. Die, human.'
The screen went blank.
Johnny stared at it.
It hadn't been a friendly face. The voice had sounded
as though it had learned Human out of a book, just like
the real Captain. But in this case it had been a nasty
book. It also sounded as though it belonged to someone
who would count to sixty like this: 'One, two, three,
four, five, seven, eighteen, thirty-five, forty-nine, fifty-
eight, fifty-nine, sixty - firing, ready or not'</div>
<div class="paragraph">His ship jerked forward, ramming him back in his
seat. That was one good thing about game space - you
could do the kind of turns and manouevres that, in real
space, would leave the human body looking like thin
pink lino across the cabin wall</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fleet slid past, dwindling to a collection of dots
behind him. A couple of laser beams crackled past, but
some way away; it looked as though they were trying
to frighten him off rather than kill him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee had turned around. They were head-
ing back deeper into game space. Why? They'd show
up on people's screens soon! There were always some
players who'd go looking. Any day now some kid'd
switch on his machine and there'd be wall-to-wall
ScreeWee, heading straight for him. They weren't safe
even now. Yes - there were always some people who'd
go looking</div>
<div class="paragraph">And there was a green dot ahead of him. He recog-
nized the way it moved, like a dog creeping around the
edge of a sheep field.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He headed towards it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now he could remember. You thought better in
game space, too. It was as if he was more him in game
space. Krystal or Kylie or one of those made-up names,
Wobbler had said. And Bigmac said the other name was
Dunn</div>
<div class="paragraph">He twirled the knob of the communicator panel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Krystal?' he tried. 'Kylie? Kathryn? Whatever?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was just the hiss of the stars, and then: 'It's
Kirsty, actually.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't fire!' said Johnny, quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who are you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't fire, first. Promise? I hate dying. It makes it
hard to think.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other ship had stopped being a dot now. If she
was going to fire, he was as good as dead - if dead was
good.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right,' she said, slowly. 'No firing. Peace talk.
Now tell me who you are.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm a player, like you,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No you're not. None of the other players talk to
me. Anyway, you're on, their side. I've been watching
you.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not ... exactly on their side,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, you're not on my side,' said Kirsty. 'No-one
is.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Did they try to surrender to you too? I heard you
say in Patel's shop that they'd sent you a message.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was another silence filled with the whispers of
the universe, and then a cautious voice: 'You're not the
fat one who looks as though he could do with a bra,
are you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. Listen-' Johnny tapped his controls hurriedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The black one who looks like an accountant?'
'No. Look-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, no ... not the skinny one with the big boots
and the pointy head ...</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No, I'm the one who kind of hangs around and no-
one notices much,' said Johnny desperately.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who? I didn't see anyone.~
'Right! That was me!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They surrendered to you?'
'Yes!' Number three missile went ping as it locked
on to her ship. Now for number four-
'But you're a nerd!'
Ping!</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think it's dweeb now. Anyway, I'm more than a
dweeb.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ping!</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm a dweeb with five missiles targeted on you.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said you weren't going to fire!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I haven't yet.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said this was a peace talk!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You did. Anyway, it is. It's just that I'm ... kind
of shouting.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">If he concentrated, he thought he could hear music
in the background when she spoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've really got missiles targeted on me?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm amazed you thought of it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So am I. Look, I don't want to shoot anyone: But
I need help. The fleet's turned round. They fired
at me!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's their job, dweeb. They fire at us, we fire at
them. Why did they stop? It's no fun if they don't fire
back.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They surrendered.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They can't surrender. It's a game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, they did. Sometimes you change the game. I
don't know, Kirsty!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Listen, I hate that name!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I've got to call you something,' said Johnny. 'What
do you call yourself?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If you tell anyone else I'll kill you-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I thought you were planning to do that anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't mean just kill you, I mean really kill you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right. What's your game name?'
'Sigourney - you're laughing!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not! I'm not! It was a sneeze! Honest! No, it's
a ... good name. Very ... appropriate . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's just dreaming, anyway. I'm dreaming this.
You're dreaming this.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So what? Doesn't make things unimportant.'
There was some more silence with the scratchy sug-
gestion of music in the background, and then: 'Ah-ha!
While we've been talking, Mr Clever, I've targeted
missiles on you!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny shrugged, even though there was no way she
could see that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Doesn't matter. I thought you would, anyway. So
we kill each other. Then we'll have to go through all
this again. It's stupid. Don't you want to find out what
happens next?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">More scratchy music.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I can hear scratchy music,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's my Walkman.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Clever. I wish I'd thought of that. I tried dreaming
my camera, but the pictures weren't any good. What're
you listening to?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'C Inlay 4 Details - "Please Keep This Copy For
Your Records".'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was another scratchy pause.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then, as if she'd been thinking deeply, she said:
'Look, we can't be in the same dream. That can't
happen.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We could find out. Where'd you live?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">This time the pause went on for a long time. The
ScreeWee fleet appeared on the radar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We'd better move,' said Johnny. 'They've started
firing. Something's happened to the Captain. She's
the one that wanted peace in the first place. Look,
I know you live in Tyne Avenue or Crescent or
somewhere-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How come we live so close?'
'Dunno. Bad luck, I suppose. Look, they're going to
be in range soon-
'No problem. Then we shoot them.'
'We'll be killed. Anyway-'
'So what? Dying's easy.'
'I know. It's living that's the problem,' said Johnny,
meaning it. 'You don't sound like someone who takes
the easy way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">C Inlay 4 Details played on in the distance.
'So what do you have in mind?'
Johnny hesitated. He hadn't thought that far. The
new Captain didn't seem to want to talk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dunno. I just don't want any ScreeWee to get
killed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why not?'
Because when they die, they die for real.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I just don't, OK?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Several fighters had left the fleet and were heading
purposefully towards them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm going to try and talk one more time,' he decided.
'Someone must be listening.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nerdy idea.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not much good at the other kind.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny turned his ship and hit the Go-faster button.
A few shots whiffled harmlessly past him and did a lot
of damage to empty space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then he was heading at maximum speed towards
the fleet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Music came over the intercom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Idiot! Dodge and dive! No wonder you get shot a
lot!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wiggled the joystick. Something clipped one of
the starship's wings and exploded behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And you've got the fighters after you! Huh! You
can't even save yourself!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny didn't take his eyes off the fleet, which was
bouncing around the sky as he flung his ship about in
an effort to avoid being shot at.
'You might try to be some help!' he shouted.
There was a boom behind him.
'I am.'
'You're shooting them?'
'You're very hard to please, actually.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain tried the door of her cabin again. It was
still locked. And there was almost certainly a guard in
the corridor outside. ScreeWee tended to obey orders,
even if they didn't like them. The Gunnery Officer was
very unusual.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That, she thought bitterly, is what comes of pro-
moting a male. They're unreliable thinkers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked around the cabin. She didn't want to be
in it. She wanted to be outside it. But she was in it. She
needed a new idea.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Humans seemed much better at ideas. They always
seemed to be on the verge of being totally insane, but
it seemed to work for them. The inside of their heads
would be an interesting place to visit, but she wouldn't
want to live there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">How do you think like a human? Go into madness
first, probably, and then out the other side . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Listen! Listen! If you keep going this way, you'll all
be killed! You're going back into game space! People
like me will find you! You'll all be killed! That's how
it goes!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then he died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was 6.3 ~. He was lying on his bed with his clothes
on, but he still felt cold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bits and pieces of his ... his previous life trickled
through his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sigourney!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, Yo-less would say that explained anything.
And now it looked as if he'd be spending every night
watching the ScreeWee get killed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was bad enough fighting off people in ones and
twos. But they were just the ones who were weird or
lonely or bored enough to go looking. Wobbler said
thousands of copies of the game had been sold. Even if
most people took them back to the shops, there'd
always be someone playing. Once the ScreeWee turned
up again, the news would get around</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then, one day, long after no-one played the
game any more, there'd be these broken ships, turning
over and over in the blank-screen darkness of game
space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And he couldn't stop it. Kir-, Sigourney was right.
That's what they were there for.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was Tuesday, too. It was Maths for most of the
morning. And then English. He'd better write a poem
at lunchtime. You could generally get away with a
poem.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He got his jacket out of the shed and sponged it off
as best he could, and then propped it up by the heater.
Then he investigated the fridge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His father had been doing the shopping again. You
could always tell. There were generally expensive
things in jars, and odd foreign vegetables. This time
there was Yoghurt Vindaloo and more celery. No-one
in the house liked celery much. It always ended up
going brown. And his father never bought bread and
potatoes. He seemed to think that stuff like that just
grew in kitchens, like mushrooms (although he always
bought mushrooms, if they were the special expensive
dried kind that looked like bits of mouldy bark and
were picked by wizened old Frenchmen).</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a carton of milk which thumped when he
shook it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny found a cup in the ghastly cavern of the
dishwasher and rinsed it under the tap. At least there
wasn't much that could go wrong with black coffee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He quite enjoyed the time by himself in the morn-
ings. The day was too early to have started going really
wrong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The war was still on television. It was getting on his
nerves. It was worrying him. You'd really think every-
one would have had enough by now.
Bigmac was in school. He'd stayed the night at Yo-
less's. Mrs Yo-less had washed out his clothes, even the
T-shirt with 'Blackbury Skins' on the back. It was a lot
cleaner than it had ever been.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could feel Wobbler and Yo-less looking at him
with interest. So were one or two other people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Later on, when they were in the middle of the rush
which meant that every pupil in the school had to walk
all the way across the campus to be somewhere else,
Yo-less said: 'Bigmac said you pulled him out of the
wreck. Did you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What? He wasn't even-' Johnny paused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was amazing. He'd never thought so fast before.
He thought of Bigmac's room, with its Weapons of the
World posters and plastic model guns and weight-
training stuff he couldn't lift. Bigmac had been thrown
out of the school role-playing games club for getting
too excited. Bigmac, who spent all his time trying
hard to be a big thicko; Bigmac, who could work
out maths problems just by looking at them. Bigmac,
who played the game of being ... well, big tough
Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny looked around. Bigmac was watching him.
It was amazing, given that Bigmac's ancestors were
a sort of monkey, how much his expression looked
like the one he'd first seen on the face of the Captain,
whose ancestors were a kind of alligator. It said: Help
me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can't really remember,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Only my mum rang the hospital and they said there
were only two boys and they were-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It was dark,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but if you'd really-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's just best if everyone shuts up about it, all right?'
said Johnny, nodding meaningfully at Bigmac.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She said you did everything right, anyway,' said
Yo-less. 'And she said you aren't being properly looked
after.'
'Yo-less.'
'She said you ought to come round our house to eat
sometimes.'
'Thanks,' said Johnny. 'I'm a bit busy these days'
'Doing what?' said Yo-less.
Johnny fumbled in his pocket.
'What does this look like to you?' he said.
Yo-less took it gravely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's a photograph,' he said. 'Just looks like a TV
screen with dots on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' sighed Johnny 'It does, doesn't it'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took it back and shoved it deep into his pocket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If someone was.., you know.., going a bit weird
in the head'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Mental, he means,' said Wobbler, behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">just a bit over-strained,' said Johnny. 'I mean -
would they know? Themselves?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, everyone thinks they're a bit mad,' said
Yo-less. 'It's part of being normal.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, I don't think I'm mad,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You don't?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Ah-aha' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I mean the whole world seems kind of weird right
now. You watch the telly, don't you? How can you
be the good guys if you're dropping clever bombs
right down people's chimneys? And blowing people
up just because they're being bossed around by a
loony?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't let 'emselves be bossed around, then,' said
Bigmac. Johnny looked at him. Bigmac deflated a bit.
'It's their own fault. They don't have to. That's what
my brother says, anyway,' he mumbled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is it?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, well, yes,' said Wobbler. 'How? It's hard
enough to get rid of prime ministers and at least they
don't have people taken out and shot. Not any more,
anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'My brother's stupid,' said Bigmac, so quietly under
his breath that Johnny wondered if anyone else even
heard it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There was a man on the box saying that the bomb-
aimers were so good because they all grew up playing
computer games,' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'See?' said Johnny. 'That's what I mean. Games look
real. Real things look like games. And ... and... it
all kind of runs together in my head.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Yo-less, knowingly. 'That's not mental.
That's shamanism. I read a book about it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's shamanism?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Shamans used to be these kind of people who lived
partly in a dream world and partly in the real world,'
said Wobbler. 'Like medicine men and druids and guys
like that. They used to be very important. They used
to guide people.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Guide?' said Johnny. 'Where to?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not sure. Anyway, my mother says they were
creations of Satan.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but your mother says that about practically
everything,' said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is true,' said Yo-less gravely. 'It's her hobby.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She said role-playing games were creations of Satan,'
said Wobbler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'True.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dead clever of him,' said Wobbler. 'I mean, sitting
down there in Hell, working out all the combat tables
and everything. I bet he used to really swear every time
the dice caught fire . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shamanism, thought Johnny. Yes. I could be a
shaman. A guide. That's better than being mental, at
any rate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was Maths again. As far as Johnny was concerned,
the future would be a better place if it didn't contain
3y + xZ. He had problems enough without people
giving him pages of this.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was trying to put off the idea of ringing someone
up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then there was Social Education. Normally you
could ignore Social Education, which tended to be
about anything anyone had on their minds at the time
or, failing that, Aids. Really the day ended with Maths.
It was just there to keep you off the streets for another
three-quarters of an hour.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He could try ringing up. You just needed the phone
book and a bit of thought</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the ceiling. The teacher was going
on about the war. That was all there was to talk about
these days. He listened with half an ear. No-one liked
the bombing. One of the girls was nearly in tears about
it</div>
<div class="paragraph">Supposing she was really there? Or supposing she said
she'd never heard of him?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigmac was arguing. That was unusual.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then someone said, 'Do you think it's easy? Do
you think the pilots really just sit there like . . - like a
game? Do you think they laugh? Really laugh? Not
just laugh because they're still alive, but laugh because
it's ... it's fun? When they're being shot at for a living,
every day? When any minute they might get blown up
too? Do you think they don't wonder what it's all
about? Do you think they like it? But we always turn
it into something that's not exactly real. We turn it
into games and it's not games. We really have to find
out what's real!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were all looking at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Anyway, that's what I think,' said Johnny.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36294682" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36294685" class="calibre8"></a>9 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">On Earth, No-one Can Hear You</div>
<div class="paragraph">Say 'Um'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Click!
'Yes?'
'Um.'
'Hello?'
'Um. Is Sig - is Kirsty there?'
'Who's that?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm a friend. Um. I don't think she knows my
narne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're a friend and she doesn't know your name?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Please!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, hang on.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at his bedroom wall. Eventually a
suspicious voice said, 'Yes? Who's that?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're Sigourney. You like C Inlay 4 Details. You
fly really well. You-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're him!'
Johnny breathed a sigh of relief. Real!
Going through the phone book had been harder than
flying the starship. Nearly harder than dying.
'I wasn't sure you really existed,' he said.
'I wasn't sure you existed,! she said.
'I've got to talk to you. I mean face to face.'
'How do I know you're not some sort of maniac?'
'Do I sound like some sort of maniac?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right, but apart from that?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was silence for a moment. Then she said, reluc-
tantly: 'All right. You can come round here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What? To your house?'
'It's safer than in public, idiot.'
Not for me, Johnny thought.
'OK,' he said.
'I mean, you might be one of those funny people.'
'What, clowns?'
And then she said, very cautiously: 'It's really you?'
'Really I'm not sure about. But me, yes.'
'You got blown up.'
'Yes, I know. I was there, remember.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't die often in the game. It took me ages even
to find the aliens.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Huh, thought Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It doesn't get any better with practice,' he said,
darkly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tyne Crescent turned out to be a pretty straight road
with trees in it, and the houses were big and had double
garages and a timber effect on them to fool people into
believing that Henry VIII had built them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty's mother opened the door for him. She was
grinning like the Captain, although the Captain had the
excuse that she was related to crocodiles. Johnny felt he
had the wrong clothes on, or the wrong face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was shown into a large room. It was mainly
white. Expensive bookshelves lined one wall. Most of
the floor was bare pine, but varnished and polished to
show that they could have afforded carpets if they'd
wanted them. There was a harp standing by a chair in
one corner, and music scattered around it on the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny picked up a sheet. It was headed 'Royal
College, Grade V'.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was standing behind him. The sheet slipped out
of his fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And don't say "um",' she said, sitting dawn. 'You
say "um" a lot. Aren't you ever sure about things?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Uh No. Hello?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Sit down. My mother's making us some tea. And
then staying out of the way. You'll probably notice
that. You can actually hear her staying out of the way.
She thinks I ought to have more friends.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had red hair, and the skinny look that went with
it. It was as if someone had grabbed the frizzy ponytail
on the back of her head and pulled it tightly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The game,' said Johnny vaguely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes? What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm really glad you're in it too. Yo-less said it was
all in my head because of Trying Times. He said it was
just me projecting my problems.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I haven't got any problems,' snapped Kirsty. 'I get
on extremely well with people, actually. There's pro-
bably some simple psychic reason that you're too stupid
to work out.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You sounded more concerned on the phone,' said
Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But now I've had time to think about it. Anyway,
what's it to me what happens to some dots in a
machine?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Didn't you see the Space Invaders?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, but they were stupid. That's what happens.
Charles Darwin knew about that. I am a winning kind
of person. And what I want to know is, what were you
doing in my dream?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not sure it's a dream,' said Johnny. 'I'm not
sure what it is. Not exactly a dream and not exactly
real. Something in between. I don't know. Maybe
something happens in your head. Maybe you're in there
because - because, well, I don't know why, but there's
got to be a reason,' he ended lamely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why're you there, then?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I want to save the ScreeWee.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Because we've got a responsibility. But the Cap-
tain's been ... I don't know, locked up or something.
There's been some kind of mutiny. It's the Gunnery
Officer. He's behind it. But if I - if we could get her
out, she could probably turn the fleet around again. I
thought you might be able to think of some way of get-
ting her out,' Johnny finished lamely. 'We haven't got
a lot of game time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She?' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She started all this. She relied on me,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said "she",' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stood up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I thought you might be able to help,' he said
wearily, 'but who cares what happens to some dots that
aren't even real. So I'll just-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You keep saying "she",' said Kirsty. 'You mean the
Captain's a woman?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A female,' said Johnny. 'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But you called the Gunnery Officer a "he",' said
Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty stood up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's typical. That's absolutely typical of modern
society. He probably resents a wo - a female being bet-
ter than him. I get that all the time.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um,' said Johnny. He hadn't meant to say 'um'. He
meant to say: 'Actually, all the ScreeWee except the
Gunnery Officer are females.' But another part of his
brain had thought faster and shut down his mouth
before he could say it, diverting the words into oblivion
and shoving good old 'um' in their place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There was an article in a magazine,' said Kirsty. 'This
whole bunch of directors of a company ganged up on this
woman and sacked her just because she'd become the
boss. It was just like me and the Chess Club.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">It probably wouldn't be a good idea to tell her. There
was a glint in her eye. No, it probably wouldn't be a
good idea to be honest. Truthfulness would have to do
instead. After all, he hadn't actually lied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's a matter of principle,' said Kirsty. 'You should
have said so right at the start.' She stood up. 'Come on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Where are we going?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'To my room,' said Kirsty. 'Don't worry. My
parents are very liberal.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were film posters all over the walls, and where
there weren't film posters there were shelves with silver
cups on. There was a framed certificate for the Regional
Winner of the Small-Bore Rifle Confederation's
National Championships, and another one for chess.
And another one for athletics. There were a lot of
medals, mostly gold, and one or two silver. Kirsty won
things.</div>
<div class="paragraph">If there was a medal for a tidy bedroom, she would
have won that too. You could see the floor all the way
to the walls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had an electrical pencil sharpener.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And a computer. The screen was showing the
familiar message: NEW GAME (Y/N)?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you know I have an IQ of one hundred and
sixty-five?' she said, sitting down in front of the
screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is that good?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes! And I only started playing this wretched game
because my brother bought it and said I wouldn't be
any good at it. These things are moronic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a notebook by the keyboard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Each level,' explained Kirsty. 'I made notes about
how the ships flew. And kept score, of course.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You were taking it seriously,' said Johnny. 'Very
seriously.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Of course I take it seriously. It's a game. You've got
to win them, otherwise what's the point? Now... can
we get on to the ScreeWee flagship?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Think!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can we get into a ScreeWee battleship?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty almost growled. 'I asked you. Sit down and
think!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny sat down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't think we can' he said. 'I'm always in a star-
ship. I think things have to look like they do on the
screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hmm. Makes some sort of sense, I suppose.' Kirsty
stuck a pencil in the sharpener, which whirred for a
while. 'And we don't know what it looks like inside.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the wall. Among the items pinned
over the bed was a card for winning the Under-7 Long
Jump. She wins everything, he thought. Wow. She
actually assumes she's going to win. Someone who
always thinks they're going to win . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stared up at the movie posters. There was one
he'd seen many times before. The famous one. The
slivering alien monster. You'd think she'd have some-
thing like a C Inlay 4 Details photo over her bed but
no, there was this thing</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't tell me,' he said, 'you want to get inside the
ship and run along the corridors shooting ScreeWee?
You do, don't you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Tactically-' she began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You can't. The Captain wouldn't want that. Not
killing ScreeWee.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty waved her hands in the air irritably.
'That's stupid,' she said. 'How do you expect to win
without killing the enemy?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm supposed to save them. Anyway, they're not
exactly the enemy. I can't go around killing them.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty looked thoughtful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you know,' she said, 'there was an African tribe
once whose nearest word for "enemy" was "a friend we
haven't met yet"?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny smiled. 'Right,' he said. 'That's how-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But they were all killed and eaten in eighteen hun-
dred and two,' said Kirsty. 'Except for those who were
sold as slaves. The last one died in Mississippi in eight-
een sixty-four, and he was very upset.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You just made that up,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. I won a prize for History.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I expect you did,' said Johnny. 'But I'm not killing
anyone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Then you can't win.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't want to win. I just don't want them to lose.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You really are a dweeb, aren't you? How can anyone
go through life expecting to lose all the time?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, I've got to, haven't I? The world is full of peo-
ple like you, for a start.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny realized he was getting angry again. He
didn't often get angry. He just got quiet, or miserable.
Anger was unusual. But when it came, it overflowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They tried to talk to you, and you didn't even listen!
You were the only other one that got that involved!
You were so mad to win you slipped into game space!
And you'd have been so much better at saving them
than me! And you didn't even listen! But I listened
and I've spent a week trying to Save Mankind in my
sleep! It's always people like me that have to do stuff
like that! It's always the people who aren't clever and
who don't win things that have to get killed all the
time! And you just hung around and watched! It's just
like on the television! The winners have fun! Winner
types never lose, they just come second! It's all the other
people who lose! And now you're only thinking of
helping the Captain because you think she's like you!
Well, I don't bloody well care any more, Miss Clever!
I've done my best! And I'm going to go on doing it!
And they'll all come back into game space and it'll be
just like the Space Invaders all over again! And I'll be
there every night!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her mouth was open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a knock on the door and almost imme-
diately, mothers being what they are, Kirsty's mother
pushed it open. She brought in a wide grin and a
tray.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm sure you'd both like some tea,' she said. 'And-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, mother,' said Kirsty, and rolled her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'-there's some macaroons. Have you found out your
friend's name now?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'John Maxwell,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And what do your friends call you?' said Kirsty's
mother sweetly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Sometimes they call me Rubber,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do they? Whatever for?'
'Mother, we were talking,' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Cobbers is on in a minute,' said Kirsty's mother. 'I,
er, shall watch it on the set in the kitchen, shall I?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Goodbye,' said Kirsty, meaningfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um, yes,' said her mother, and went out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She dithers a lot,' said Kirsty. 'Fancy getting married
when you're twenty! A complete lack of ambition.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She stared at Johnny for a while. He was keeping
quiet. He'd been amazed to hear his own thoughts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty coughed. She looked a little uncertain, for the
first time since Johnny had met her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well,' she said. 'Uh. OK. And.., we won't be able
to fight all the players when they get back to game
space.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. There's not enough missiles.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Could we dream a few more?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. I thought of that. You get the ship you play
with. I mean, we know it's only got six missiles. I've
tried dreaming more and it doesn't work.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hmm. Interesting problem. Sony,' she added
quickly, when she saw his expression.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stared at the movie posters. Sigourney!
Games everywhere. Bigmac was a tough guy in his
head, and this one kept sharp pencils and had to win
everything and in her head shot aliens. Everyone had
these pictures of themselves in their head, except
him...</div>
<div class="paragraph">He blinked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And now his head ached. There was a buzzing in his
ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty's face drifted towards him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Are you all right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The headache was really bad now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're ill. And you look all thin. When did you last
eat?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I dunno. Had something last night, I think.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Last night? What about breakfast and lunch?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, well ... you know ... I kept thinking
about</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You'd better drink that tea and eat that macaroon.
Phew. When did you last have a bath?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's kind of . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Good grief!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Listen! Listen!' It was important to-'
He didn't feel well at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We dream our way in,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What are you talking about? You're swaying!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We go on to their ship!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But we agreed we don't know what it looks like
inside!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK! Good! So we decide what it does look like
inside, right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She tapped her pad irritably.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So what does it look like?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't know! The inside of a spaceship! Corridors
and cabins and stuff like that. Nuts and bolts and panels
and sliding doors. Scotsmen saying the engines canna
tak' it anymoore. Bright blue lights!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hmm. That's what you think is inside spaceships,
is it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty glared at him. She generally glared. It was her
normal expression.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'When we go to sleep ... I mean, when I go to
sleep I'll try and wake up inside the ship,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't know! By concentrating, I suppose.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She leaned forward. For the first time since he'd met
her, she looked concerned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You don't look capable of thinking straight,' she
said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'll be all right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stood up.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36295326" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36295328" class="calibre8"></a>10 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">In Space, No-one Is Listening Anyway</div>
<div class="paragraph">And woke up.
He was lying down on something hard. There was
some sort of mesh just in front of his eyes. He stared
at it for a while.
There was also a faint vibration in the floor, and a
distant background rumbling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was obviously back in game space, but he cer-
tainly wasn't in a starship</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mesh moved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's face appeared over the edge of the
mesh, upside down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Where am I?'
'You appear to be under my bed.'
He rolled sideways.
'I'm on your ship?'
'Oh, yes.'
'Right! Hah! I knew I could do it...'
He stood up, and looked around the cabin. It wasn't
very interesting. Apart from the bed, which was under
something that looked like a sun-ray lamp, there was
only a desk and something that was probably a chair if
you had four back legs and a thick tail.
On the desk were half a dozen plastic aliens. There
was also a cage with a couple of long-beaked birds in
it. They sat side by side on their perch and watched
Johnny with almost intelligent eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right. Sigourney was right. He did think better in
game space. All the decisions seemed so much clearer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">OK. So he was on board. He'd rather hoped to be
outside the cabin the Captain was locked in, but this was
a start.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stared at the wall. There was a grille.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's that?' he said, pointing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It is where the air comes in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny pulled at the grille. There was no very
obvious way of removing it. If it could be removed, the
hole behind it was easily big enough for the Captain.
Air ducts. Well, what did he expect?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We've got to get this off,' he said. 'Before some-
thing dreadful happens.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We are imprisoned,' said the Captain. 'What more
can happen that is dreadful?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Have you ever heard the name ... Sigourney?' said
Johnny cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. But it sounds a lovely name,' said the Captain.
'Who is this Sigourney?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, if she can dream her way here as well, then
there's going to be trouble. You should see the pictures
she's got on her walls.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What of?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Aliens,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She takes a very close interest in alien races?' said the
Captain happily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Yes.' The mere thought of her arrival made
him pull urgently at the grille. 'Um. There's some-
thing on the inside ... and I can't quite get my hand
through . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain watched him with interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Something like wingnuts,' grunted Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is very instructive,' said the Captain, peering
over his shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I can't get a grip!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You wish to turn them?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain waddled over to the table and opened
the bird cage. Both of the birds hopped out on to her
hand. The Captain said a few words in ScreeWee; the
birds fluttered past Johnny's head, squeezed through
the mesh, and disappeared. After a second or two he
heard the squeak-squeak of nuts being undone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What were they?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Chee,' said the Captain. 'Mouth birds. You under-
stand?' She opened her mouth, revealing several rows
of yellow teeth. 'For hygiene?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Living toothbrushes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We have always had them. They are... traditional.
Very intelligent. Bred for it, you know. Clever things.
They understand several words of ScreeWee.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The squeaking went on. There was a clonk, and a nut
rolled through the mesh.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The panel fell into the room</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny looked at the hole.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'0-kay,' he said uncertainly. 'You don't know where
it goes, do you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. There are ventilation shafts all over the ship.
Will you lead the way?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I would be happy for you to lead the way,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stood on the bed and crawled into the hole.
It went a little way and then opened on to a bigger shaft.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All over the ship?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny paused for a moment. He'd never liked nar-
row dark spaces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. Right,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty's mother put down the phone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's no-one answering,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think he said his father works late and his mother
sometimes works in the evening,' said Kirsty. 'Any-
way, the doctor said he's basically all right, didn't she?
He's just run down, she said. What was the stuff she
gave him?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She said it'd make him sleep. He's not getting
enough sleep. Twelve-year-old boys need a lot of sleep.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I know this one does,' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And you said he's not eating properly. Where did
you meet him, anyway?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um,' Kirsty began, and then smiled to herself. 'Out
and about.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty's mother looked worried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Are you sure he's all there?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He's all there,' said Kirsty, climbing the stairs. 'I'm
not sure that he's all here, but he's certainly all there.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She opened the door of the spare room and looked in.
Johnny was fast asleep in a pair of her brother's pyjamas.
He looked very young. It's amazing how young twelve
is, when you're thirteen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then she went to her own bedroom, got ready for
bed, and slid between the sheets.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was pretty early. It had been a busy evening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was a loser. You could tell. He dressed like a loser.
A ditherer. Someone who said 'um' a lot, and went
through life trying not to be noticed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She'd never done that. She'd always gone through life
as if there was a big red arrow above the planet,
indicating precisely where she was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the other hand, he tried so hard</div>
<div class="paragraph">She'd bet he'd cried when ET died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pushed herself up on one elbow and stared at the
movie posters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trying wasn't the point.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You had to win. What good was anything if you
didn't win?</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Stuck? You're an alien,' said Johnny. 'Aliens don't get
stuck in air ducts. It's practically a well-known fact.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He backed into a side tunnel, and turned around.
'I am sorry. It occurs to me that possibly I am the
wrong type of alien,' said the Captain. 'I can go
backwards, but I am forwardly disadvantaged.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK. Back up to that second junction we passed,'
said Johnny. 'We're lost, anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No,' said the Captain, 'I know where we are. It says
here this is junction ~ ~ e .'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you know where that is?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I saw a film where there was an alien crawling
around inside a spaceship's air ducts and it could come
out wherever it liked,' said Johnny reproachfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Doubtless it had a map,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny crawled around a corner and found . .
another grille.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There didn't seem to be any activity on the other side
of it. He unscrewed the nuts and let it fall on to the
floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a corridor. He dropped into it, then
turned and helped the Captain through. ScreeWee
might have descended from crocodiles, but crocodiles
preferred sandbanks. They weren't very good at crawl-
ing through narrow spaces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her skin felt cold and dry, like silk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were no other ScreeWee around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're probably at battle stations,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We're always at battle stations,' said the Captain
bitterly, brushing dust off her scales. 'This is corridor
~. Now we must get to the bridge, yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Won't they just lock you up again?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think not. Disobedience to properly constituted
authority does not come easily to us. The Gunnery
Officer is very ... persuasive. But once they see that
I am free again, they will give in. At least,' the Captain
added, 'most of them will. The Gunnery Officer may
prove difficult. He dreams of grandeur.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She waddled a little way along the bare corridor,
keeping close to the wall. Johnny trailed behind her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dreams are always tricky,' he said.
'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But they'll wake up when the players start shooting
again, won't they? They'll soon see what he is leading
them into?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We have a proverb,' said the Captain. 'Skeejeeshe-
jweeJEEyee. It means ...' she thought for a moment,
'when you are riding a jee, a six-legged domesticated
beast of burden capable of simple instruction but also
traditionally foul-tempered, it is easier to stay on rather
than dismount; equally, better to trust yourself to fate
than risk attack from the sure-footed JEEyee, which
will easily outrun a ScreeWee on foot. Of course, it is
a little snappier in our language.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They'd reached a corner. The Captain peered around
it, and then jerked her head back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There is a guard outside the door of my cabin,' she
said. 'She is armed.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can you talk to her?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She is under orders. I fear that I will only be allowed
to say "Aaargh!' said the Captain. 'But feel free to
make the attempt. I have no other options.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Oh, well - you only die a few hundred times,
thought Johnny. He stepped out into the corridor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guard turned to look at him, and half raised a
melted-looking thing that nevertheless very clearly said
'gun'. But she looked at him in puzzlement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She's never seen a human before! he thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He spread his arms wide in what he hoped was an
innocent-looking way, and smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Which just goes to show that you shouldn't take
things for granted because, as the Captain told him
later, when a ScreeWee is about to fight she does two
things. She spreads her front pairs of arms wide (to grip
and throttle) and exposes her teeth (ready to bite).</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guard raised the gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then there was a thunderous knocking on the other
side of the cabin door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guard made a simple mistake. She should have
ignored the knocking, loud and desperate though it
was, and concentrated on Johnny. But she tried to keep
the gun pointing in his general direction while she
pressed a panel by the door. After all, it was only the
Captain in there, wasn't it? And the Captain was still
the Captain, even if she was locked up. She could keep
an eye on both of them . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">The door opened a little way. A foot came out,
swinging upwards, and caught the guard under the
snout. There was a click as all its teeth met. Its eyes
crossed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone shouted: 'Haul!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guard swayed backwards. Kirsty came through
the door airborne and started hacking at the guard's
arms with her hands. It dropped the gun. She picked
it up in one movement. The guard opened its mouth
to bite, spread its arms to grip and throttle, and then
went cross-eyed because the gun barrel was suddenly
thrust between its teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't ... swallow ...' said Kirsty, very
deliberately.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a sudden, very heavy silence. The guard
stayed very still.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is a friend of mine,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said the Captain. 'Sigourney. One of your
warriors. Is she a friend of mine?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'At the moment,' said Sigourney, without moving
her head. She had tied one of the strips of webbing from
the Captain's bed around her forehead. She was breath-
ing heavily. There was a wild glint in her eye. Johnny
suddenly felt very sorry for the guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You know, I'm glad she's a friend of mine,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He ee ogg ee?' said the guard. Its arms were tremb-
ling. The ScreeWee didn't sweat, but this one would
probably have liked to.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We'd better tie her up and put her in the cabin,' said
Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Ees!' said the guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I could just fire,' said Sigourney wistfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No!' said Johnny and the Captain together.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Eep!' said the guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, all right.' Sigourney relaxed. The guard sagged.
'Sorry to be late,' said Sigourney. 'Had a bit of trou-
ble getting to sleep.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain said something to the guard in
ScreeWee. It nodded in a strangely human way and
trooped obediently into the cabin, where it squatted
down just as obediently and let them tie its hands and
feet with more bits of bed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've got a black belt in karate too, I expect,' said
Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Only purple,' she said. 'But I haven't been doing it
long,' she added quickly. 'Huh! Is that the only kind
of knot you can tie?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I went to karate once, with Bigmac,' said Johnny,
trying to ignore that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What happened?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I got my foot caught in my trousers.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And you are the Chosen One? Huh! They could have
chosen me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They tried. But I was the one who listened,' said
Johnny quietly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sigourney picked up the gun and cradled it in her
arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, I'm here now,' she said, 'And ready to kick
some butt.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Some but what?' said Johnny wearily. He really
hated the phrase. It was a game saying. It tried to fool
you into believing that real bullets weren't going to go
through real people.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sigourney sniffed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nerd.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They went back into the corridor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'By the way,' said Johnny, 'what happened to
me?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You just collapsed. Right there on the floor. We've
got a doctor living next door. Mum went and got her.
Unusually bright of her, really. She said you were just
tired out and looked as though you hadn't been eating
properly.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is true,' said the Captain. 'Did I not say? Too
much sugar and carbohydrate, not enough fresh
vitamins. You should get out more.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yeah, right,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was something different about the corridor.
Before, it had been grey metal, only interesting if you
really liked looking at nuts and bolts. But now it was
darker, with more curves; the walls glistened, and drip-
ped menace. Dripped something, anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain looked different, too. She hadn't
changed, exactly - it was just that her teeth and claws
were somehow more obvious. A few minutes ago, she
had been an intelligent person who just happened to be
an eight-legged crocodile; now she was an eight-legged
crocodile who just happened to be intelligent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Game space was changing now two people were
sharing one dream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hold on, there's-' he began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Don't let's hang around,' said Sigourney.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But you're-' Johnny began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Dreaming it wrong, he finished to himself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This really is nuts, he told himself as he trailed after
them. At home Kirsty went around being Miss Brains.
In here it was all: Make my shorts! Eat my day!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain waddled at high speed along the cor-
ridors. Now steam was dribbling from somewhere,
making the floor misty and wet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There wasn't that much in the ScreeWee ships.
Perhaps they ought to have sat down and worked out
the inside of one in a bit more detail before they'd
dreamed, he thought. They could have added more
cabins and big screens and interesting things like that;
as it was, all there seemed to be were these snaking cor-
ridors that were unpleasantly like caves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bigger caves, though. They'd got wider. Mysterious
passages led off in various directions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sigourney crept along with her back against the wall,
spinning around rapidly every time they passed another
passage. She stiffened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's another one coming!' she hissed. 'it's
pushing something! Get back!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She elbowed them into the wall. Johnny could hear
the scrape-scrape of claws on the floor, and something
rattling.
'When it gets closer I'll get it. I'll leap out-'
Johnny poked his head around the corner.
'Kirsty?'
She took no notice.
'Sigourney?' he tried.
'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I know you're going to leap out,' said Johnny, 'but
don't pull the trigger, right?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's an alien!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So it's an alien. You don't have to shoot them
all.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rattling got closer. There was also a faint
squeaking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sigourney gripped the gun excitedly, and leapt out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK, you - oh ... um .</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a very small ScreeWee. Most of its scales were
grey. Its crest was nearly worn away. Its tail just
dragged behind it. When it opened its mouth, there
were three teeth left and they were huddling together
at the back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It blinked owlishly at them over the top of the trolley
it had been pushing. Apart from anything else, Kirsty
had been aiming the gun well above its head.
There was one of those awkward pauses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Around this time,' said the Captain behind them,
'the crew on the bridge have a snack brought to them.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny leaned forward, nodded at the little old alien,
and lifted the lid of the tray that was on the trolley.
There were a few bowls of something green and bub-
bling. He gently lowered the lid again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think you were going to shoot the tea lady,' he
said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How was I to know?' Kirsty demanded. 'It could
have been anything! This is an alien spaceship! You're
not supposed to get tea ladies!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain said something in ScreeWee to the old
alien, who shuffled around slowly and went off back
down the corridor. One wheel of the trolley kept
squeaking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty was furious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This isn't going right!' she hissed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Come on,' said Johnny. 'Let's go to the bridge and
get it over with.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I didn't know it was a tea lady! That's your dreaming!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, all right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She had no right to be there!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I suppose even aliens get a bit thirsty in the
afternoons.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's not what I meant! They're supposed to be
alien! That means slavering and claws! It doesn't mean
sending out for ... for a coffee and a jam doughnut!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Things are just like they are,' said Johnny,
shrugging.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why do you just accept everything? Why don't you
ever try to change things?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're generally bad enough already,' he said.
She leapt ahead and peered around the next corner.
'Guards!' she said. 'And these have got guns!'
Johnny looked around the corner. There were two
ScreeWee standing in front of a round door. They
were, indeed, armed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Satisfied?' she snapped. 'No hint of Danish pastries
anywhere? Right? Now can I actually shoot
something?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No I keep telling you! You have to give them a
chance to surrender.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You always make it difficult!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She raised the gun and stepped out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So did the Captain. She hissed a word in ScreeWee.
The guards looked from her to Kirsty, who was
squinting along her gun barrel. One of them hissed
something.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She says the Gunnery Officer has instructed them to
shoot anyone who approaches the door,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'll fire if they move,' said Kirsty. 'I mean it!'
The Captain spoke in ScreeWee again. The guards
stared at Johnny. They lowered their guns.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suspicion rose inside him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What did you just tell them?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I just told them who you were,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You said I was the Chosen One?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">One of the guards was trying to kneel. That looked
very strange in a creature with four legs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty rolled her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's better than being shot at,' said the Captain. 'I've
been shot at a lot. I know what I am talking about.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Tell her to get up,' said Johnny. 'What do we do
now? Who's on the bridge?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Most of the officers,' said the Captain. 'The guard
says there have been arguments. Gunfire.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's more like it!' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK,' said Johnny. 'Let's go . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain motioned one of the guards aside and	  
touched a plate by the door.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36296188" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36296190" class="calibre8"></a>11 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Humans!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny saw it all in one long, long second.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Firstly, the bridge was big. It seemed to be the size
of a football pitch. And at one end there was a screen,
which looked almost as big. He felt like an ant standing
in front of a TV set.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen was covered with green dots.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Players. Heading for the fleet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were hundreds of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right in front of the screen was a horseshoe-shaped
bank of controls, with a dozen seats ranged in front of
It.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It's here, he thought. When I was sitting in my room
playing, they were in here in this great shadowy room,
steering their ship, firing back</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only one seat was occupied now. Its occupant
was already standing up, half turning, reaching for
something .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Go ahead,' said Kirsty. 'Make my stardate.'
The Gunnery Officer froze, glaring at them.
'Too late,' he said. 'You're too late!' He waved a claw
towards the screen. 'I've taken us back to where we
belong. There is no time to turn us round again. You
must fight now.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He focused on Johnny. 'What's that?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The Chosen One,' said the Captain, starting to walk
forward. The others followed her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But we must fight,' said the Gunnery Officer. 'For
honour. The honour of the ScreeWee! That's what we
are for!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny's foot touched something. He looked down.
Now that his eyes had become accustomed to the
gloom, he could see that he'd almost tripped over a
ScreeWee. It was dead. Nothing with a hole like that
in it could have been alive.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty was looking down, too. Johnny could see
other shapes on the floor in the shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He's been killing Sc- people,' he whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shoot them in space, shoot them on a screen, and
there was just an explosion and five points on the score
total. When they'd been shot from a few metres away,
then there was simply a reminder that someone who
had been alive was now, very definitely, not alive any
more. And would never be again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up at the Gunnery Officer. ScreeWee
were cold-blooded and a long way from being human,
but this one had a look about it - about him that sug-
gested a mind running off into madness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a silvery sheen on his scales. Johnny found
himself wondering if the ScreeWee changed colour,
like chameleons. The Captain had always looked more
golden when she was acting normally, and became
almost yellow when she was worried</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was the colour of lemons now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She hissed something. The guards looked at her in
surprise, but turned and filed obediently out of the
bridge. Then she turned to the Gunnery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You killed all of them?' she said, softly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They tried to stop me! It is a matter of honour!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes. I can see that,' said the Captain, in a level
voice. She was shifting position slightly now, moving
away from the humans.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A ScreeWee dies fighting or not at all!' shouted the
Gunnery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain's scales had faded to the colour of old
paper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, I understand, I understand,' she said. 'And the
humans understand too, don't you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gunnery Officer turned his head. The Captain
spread her arms, opened her mouth and leapt. The male
must have sensed her; he turned, claws whirring
through the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny reached out and caught Kirsty's gun as she
raised it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No! You might hit her!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why'd she do that? I could easily have shot him! So
could the guards! Why just jump at him like that?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fighters were a whirling ball of claws and tails.
'It's personal. I think she hates him too much,' he
said. 'But look at the screen!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were more green dots. Red figures that might
have meant something to a ScreeWee were scrolling up
on one side too fast for a human to read.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked down at the controls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're getting closer! We've got to do something.'
Kirsty stared at the controls too. The seats were
made to fit a ScreeWee. So were the controls
themselves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, do you know what a V 4-f T ~ means?' she
said. 'Fast? Slow? Fire? The cigarette lighter?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fighters had broken apart and were circling each
other, hissing. The green and red light from the screen
threw unpleasant shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Neither ScreeWee was paying the humans the least
attention. They couldn't afford to. ScreeWee walked
like ducks and looked like a cartoon of a crocodile, but
they fought like cats - it was mainly watching and
snarling with short, terrible blurs of attack and defence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A light started to flash on the panel and an alarm
rang. It rang in ScreeWee, but it was still pretty urgent
even in Human.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain spun around. The Gunnery Officer
jumped backwards, hit the ground running, and sped
towards the door. He was through it in a blur.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He can't go anywhere,' said the Captain, staggering
across to the controls. 'I ... can deal with him later . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've got some nasty scratches,' said Kirsty.
ScreeWee blood was blue. 'I know some first aid ..</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A lot, I expect,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But not for ScreeWee, I imagine,' said the Captain.
Her chest was heaving. One of her legs seemed to be
at the wrong angle. Blue patches covered her tail.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You could have just shot him,' said Kirsty. 'It was
stupid to fight like that.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Honour!' snarled the Captain. She tripped a switch
with a claw and hissed some instructions in ScreeWee.
'But he was right. Sadly, I know this now. There is no
changing ScreeWee nature. Our destiny is to fight and
die. I have been foolish to think otherwise.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She blinked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Take off your shirt,' Kirsty demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Your shirt! Your shirt! Look at her! She's losing
blood! She needs bandaging!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny obeyed, reluctantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've got a vest on underneath? Only grandads
wear a vest. Yuk. Don't you ever wash your clothes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He did, sometimes. And occasionally his mother had
a burst of being a mother and everything in the house
got washed. But usually he used the wash-basket laun-
dry, which consisted of going through the basket until
he found something that didn't seem all that bad.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But she said you wouldn't know anything about
ScreeWee medicine,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So what? Even if it's blue, blood's still blood. You
should try to keep it inside.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty helped the Captain to a chair. The alien was
swaying a bit, and her scales had gone white, speckled
with blue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is there anything I can do?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty glanced at him. 'I don't know,' she said. 'Is
there anything you can do?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned back to the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We'll all die, Johnny thought. They're all out there
waiting. And here's me at the controls of the main alien
ship. We can't turn round now. And I can't even read
what it says on the controls!</div>
<div class="paragraph">I've done it all wrong. It was all simple, and now it's
all complicated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You think about doing things in dreams, but we're
always wrong about dreams. When people talk about
dreams they mean daydreams. That's where you're
Superman or whatever. That's where you win every-
thing. In dreams everything is weird. I'm in a dream
now. Or something Like a dream. And when I wake up,
all the ScreeWee will be back in game space and they'll
be shot at again, just like the Space Invaders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hang on . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stared at the meaningless controls again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">On one of them the symbols ~ S If c
rearranged themselves to form 'Main Engines</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is my world, too. It's in my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up at the big screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All of them. They're all there, waiting. In bedrooms
and lounges around the world. In between watching
Cobbers and doing their homework.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All waiting with their finger on the Fire button, and
each one thinking that they're the only one</div>
<div class="paragraph">All there, in front of me</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I wasn't expecting to do this,' said Kirsty, behind
him. 'I wasn't expecting to be bandaging aliens. Put a
claw on this knot, will you? What's your pulse level?'
'I don't think we have them,' said the Captain.
The ship thumped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The distant background rumble of the engines was
suddenly a roar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The seats had bits sticking up where humans didn't
expect bits to stick up. Johnny was sitting cross-legged
on one, both hands on the controls, face multi-coloured
in the light of the screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty tapped him on the shoulder. 'What are you
doing?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Flying,' said Johnny, without turning his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He said it's too late to turn round.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not turning round.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You don't know how to fly one of these!'
'I'm not flying one of these. I'm flying the whole
fleet.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You can't understand the controls!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Green and red light made patterns on his face as he
turned to her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You know, everyone tells me things. All the time,'
he said. 'Well, I'm not listening now. I can read the
controls. Why not? They're in my head. Now sit
down. I shall need you to do some things. And stop
talking to me as if I'm stupid.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She sat down, almost hypnotized by his tone of
voice.
'But how-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's a control that lets this ship steer all the
others as well. It's used on long voyages.' He moved a
lever. 'And I'm flying them as fast as I can. I don't think
they can go any faster. All the dials have gone into the
% /2  - that's ScreeWee for red.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But you're heading straight for the players!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I've got to. There isn't time to turn round . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler had a pin-up over his bed. It was a close-up
photograph of the Intel 8058675 microprocessor,
taken through a microscope; it looked like a street map
of a very complicated modern city. His grandfather
complained that it was unhealthy and why didn't he
have a double page spread from Giggles and Garters
instead, but Wobbler had a vision: one day, if he could
master GCSE maths and reliably pick up a soldering
iron by the end that wasn't hot, he was going to be a
Big Man in computers. A Number One programmer,
with his hair in a ponytail at the back like they all wore.
Never mind about Yo-less saying it was all run by men
in suits these days. One day, the world would hear from
Wobbler Johnson - probably via a phone-line it didn't
know was connected to its computer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the meantime, he was staring at columns of
numbers in an effort to make a completely illegal copy
ofMrBunleyGoesBoing. It had been given four stars and
declared 'megabad!!!', which was what Splaaaaatttd
magazine still thought meant pretty good if you were
under sixteen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He blinked at the screen, and smeared the grease on
his glasses a bit more evenly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And that was enough for tonight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat back, and his eye caught sight of Only You
Can Save Mankind, under a pile of other discs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Poor old Rubber. Of course, you called people men-
tal all the time, but there was something weird about
him. His body walked around down on Earth but his
brain was probably somewhere you couldn't find with
an atlas.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler shoved the disc in the drive. Odd about the
game, though. There was probably a logical reason for
it. That's what computers were, logical. Start believing
anything else and you were in trouble.
The title came up, and then the bit that Gobi Soft-
ware had pinched from Star Wars, and then-
His jaw dropped.
Ships. Hundreds of them. Getting bigger and bigger.
Yellow ships, filling the screen, so that it was just
black and yellow and just yellow and then blinding
white.
Wobbler ducked.
And then a black screen.
Almost black, anyway.
For a moment the words hung there.
Hi, Wobler-
And then vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">More alarms were clanging and whooping.
Kirsty peered out from between her fingers.
'I don't think we hit anyone,' said Johnny, tapping
on the keys.
'You flew straight through them!'
'That's right!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK, but they'll still come after us.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'So now we turn round. It'll take a little while. How's
the Captain?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">A clawed hand gripped the back of his chair, and her
snout rested on his shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This is very bad,' said the Captain. 'Our engines are
not designed to run at this sort of speed for any length
of time. They could break down at any moment.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's a calculated risk,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Really? How precisely did you calculate it?' said the
ScreeWee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well ... not exactly calculate ... I just thought it
was worth a try,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're turning back towards the players!'
'And we're still accelerating,' said Johnny.
'What were you typing just then?' said Kirsty.
'Oh, nothing,' said Johnny. grinning. 'Just thought
I saw someone I recognized. You know, as we flashed
past.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why are you looking so happy?' she demanded.
'We're in terrible trouble.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dunno. Because it's my trouble, I suppose. Captain,
why have all those lights over there come on?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're the ships of the fleet,' said the Captain. 'The
commanders want to know what's happening.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Tell them to hold on to something,' said Johnny.
'And tell them - tell them they're going home.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They both looked at him.
'Oh, yes, very impressive,' said Kirsty. 'Very
dramatic. All very-'
'Shut up.
'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Shut up.' said Johnny again, his eyes not leaving the
screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No-one tells me to shut up!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm telling you now. Just because you've got a mind
like a, a hammer doesn't mean you have to treat every-
one else like a nail. Now here they come again.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler took the disc out of the drive and looked at
it. Then he felt around the back of his computer in case
there were any extra wires.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That Johnny ... he was the quiet type. He always
said that all he knew about computers was how to
switch them on, but everyone knew about computers.
He'd probably messed around with the game and given
it back. Pretty good. Wobbler wondered how he'd
done it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He put the disc back in and started the game again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Only You Can Save Mankind' ... yeah, yeah.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the inside of the starship. Missiles, guns, score
total, yeah, yeah</div>
<div class="paragraph">And stars ahead. The sparkly ones you got in the
game. He'd done much better ones for Voyage to Alpha
Centauri.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No ships to be seen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He picked up the joystick and moved it, watching
the stars spin as the ship turned</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a ship right behind him. Very much
behind him. Dozens of ships, again. Hundreds of ships.
All getting bigger. Much bigger. Very quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Very, very quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When he got up off the floor and put the leg back
on the chair, the screen was all black again, except for
the little flashing cursor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wobbler stared at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Logic, he said. Not believing in logical reasons was
almost as bad as dropping hot solder on to a nylon sock.
There had to be a logical explanation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One day, he'd think of one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're following us! They're following us!'
Little coils of smoke were coming up from the con-
trols. There were all sorts of vibrations in the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm pretty sure we can outrun them,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How sure?' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Pretty sure.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty turned to the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Have we got any rear guns?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Captain nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They can be fired from here,' she said. 'But we
should not do that. We have surrendered, remember?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I haven't,' said Kirsty. 'Which one fires the guns?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The stick with the button on the top.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'This? It's just like a games joystick,' she said.
'Of course it is,' said Johnny. 'This is in our heads,
remember. It has to be things we know.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen showed the view behind the fleet. There
were green ships bunched up behind them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'They're coming right down our tailpipe,' said
Kirsty. 'This is going to be really easy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, it is isn't it,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a dull edge to his voice. She hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What do you mean?' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Just dots in the middle of a circle,' said Johnny. 'It's
easy. Bang. Here comes the high score. Bang. Go
ahead.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But it's game space! It's a game. Why are you acting
like that? It's just something on a screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Fine. Just like the Real Thing. Press the button,
then.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She gripped the stick. Then she paused again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why do you have to spoil everything?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Me?' said Johnny vaguely. 'Look, if you're not
going to fire, switch the screen back to what's ahead of
us, will you? This dial here says we're moving at ~ e
per c ~. and that's ~ times faster than it says we
ought to be going.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, I just think it'd be nice not to run into an
asteroid or something. Of course, if you want us to end
up five miles across and one centimetre thick, keep
looking back.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, all right!'
She took her finger off the screen switch.
And then she gasped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They stared at the expanse of space ahead of them,
and what was in the middle of it.
'What,' said Kirsty, after a long pause, 'is that?'
Johnny laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He tried to stop himself, because the ship was groan-
ing and creaking like a tortured thing, but he couldn't.
Tears ran down his cheeks. He thumped his hand help-
lessly on the control panel, accidentally switching a few
lights on and off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's the Border,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Johnny. 'Of course it is.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But it's-' Kirsty began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Johnny. 'The Border, see? Beyond it
they're safe. Of course. No-one crosses the Border.
Humans can't do it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It can't be natural.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who knows? This is game space, after all. It's
probably natural here. I mean, we've all seen it
before.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But it is still a very long way off,' said the Captain.
'I fear that-'
There was a dull explosion somewhere behind them.
'Missiles!' said Kirsty. 'You should have let me'
'No, listen,' said Johnny. 'Listen.'
'What to? I can't hear anything.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That's because something's making a lot of silence,'
said Johnny. 'The engines have stopped.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'The engines have probably melted,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We've still got - . . what is it ... momentum or
inertia or one of those things,' said Johnny. 'We'll keep
going until we hit something.'
'Or something hits us,' said Kirsty.
She looked at the Border again.
'How big is that thing?' she said.
'It must be huge.' said Johnny.
'But there's stars beyond it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Not our stars. I told you, that's one place humans
can't go . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at one another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What happens, then,' Kirsty began, like someone
exploring a particularly nasty hole in a tooth, 'if we're
on a ship that tries to go past the Border?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They both turned to the Captain, who shrugged.
'Don't ask me,' she said. 'It's never happened. It is
impossible.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now all three of them turned to look at the Border
again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is it just me?' said Kirsty. 'or is it just a little bit
bigger?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was some silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Still,' said Johnny. 'what's the worst that can happen
to us?'
Then he wished he hadn't said that. He remembered
thinking he'd hear the alarm clock waking him up, that
very first time, and then he recalled the shock of realiz-
ing that he wasn't being allowed to wake up at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You know, I don't want to find out,' he added.
'Without engines, we cannot turn the ship around,'
said the Captain. 'I am sorry. You were too keen to save
us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It is getting bigger,' said Kirsty. 'You can tell, if you
watch the stars behind it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I am sorry,' said the Captain again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'At least the ScreeWee should make it,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I am sorry.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty stood up. 'Well, I'm not,' she said. 'Come on!'
She picked up the gun and strode away into the
shadows. Johnny ran after her.
'Where do you think you're going?'
'To the escape capsule,' she said.
'What escape capsule?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Indeed,' said the Captain, scuttling after them, 'I ask
that too. There is no such thing.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There can be if we want there to be,' said Kirsty,
opening the door. 'You said the game is made up of
things we know? Well, I know it'll be right down
under the ship.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It's my dream as well as yours, right? Believe me.
There'll be an escape capsule.' Her eyes had that gleam
again. She hefted the gun. 'I know it,' she said. 'I've
been there.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He remembered her room. He could picture her sit-
ting there, with a dozen sharp pencils and no friends,
getting top marks in her History homework, while in
her head she was chasing aliens.
'I cannot understand,' said the Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The corridor outside was full of steam. The ship
might cross the Border, but it was going to have to
have a lot of repairs before it ever came back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um,' said Johnny. 'It's a bit like the models in the
cereal packets. It's ... kind of a human idea.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee hesitated in the doorway. Then she
turned to look at the saeen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We are getting closer,' she said. 'If you think there
is something there, then you must go now.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Come on!' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Uh-' Johnny began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Thank you,' said the Captain, gravely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I haven't really done much,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Who knows? You never thought of yourself. You
tried to work things out. You made choices. And I
chose well.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And now we must go!' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Perhaps we shall meet again. Afterwards. If all goes
well,' said the Captain. She took one of Johnny's hands
in two of her own.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Goodbye,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty caught Johnny's shoulder and dragged him
away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nice to have met you,' she said to the alien. 'Sort
of - interesting. Come on, you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some of the lights had gone out. The corridors were
full of steam and vague shapes. Kirsty ran on ahead,
darting from shadow to shadow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We'll have to go down,' she said over her shoulder.
'It'll be there. Don't worry!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're really into this, aren't you.' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Here's a ramp. Come on. We can't have much time.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was another passage below that, and another</div>
<div class="paragraph">ramp, curling away down through the steam.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They came out in a room bigger than the bridge.
There was a very large double door at one end, and
banks of equipment around the walls. And, in the mid-
dle, standing on three landing legs, was a small ship. It
had a stubby, heavy look.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There! See? What did I tell you?' said Kirsty
triumphantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny walked over to the nearest equipment panel
and touched it. It was sticky. He looked at his
fingertips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It hasn't been here long,' he said. 'The paint's not
dry.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">A screen in the middle of the panel lit up, showing
the Captain's face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How interesting,' she said. 'I look down at my
controls and discover a new one. You have found your
escape capsule?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'It looks like it,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We have ten minutes until we reach the Border,'
said the Captain. 'You should have plenty of time.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a whirring noise behind Johnny. The
escape capsule's ramp was coming down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I found a switch on the landing leg.' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He joined her. The ramp was a silvery grey-colour.
It gleamed in the misty blue light that streamed down
from inside the capsule.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can you guess what I'm thinking?' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You're thinking: We haven't seen the Gunnery
Officer lately,' said Johnny. 'You're thinking: He'll be
in there somewhere, hiding. Because this part is your
dream, and that's how your dream works.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Only I'll be ready for him,' said Sigourney. 'Come
on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She sidled up the ramp, turning constantly in a series
of small excited hops to keep the gun pointed at any
teeth that might suddenly appear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were two seats in the capsule, in front of a very
small control panel. There was a big window. There
were a couple of small cupboards. And there wasn't
much of anything else.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty pointed to a cupboard and made a gesture to
Johnny to open it. She raised her gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He opened the door and stood back quickly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty seriously menaced a stack of tins.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She caught Johnny's expression.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, he could have been in there,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Sure. Admittedly he'd have to stop to cut
his arms and legs off and then curl up really small, but
he could have been in there.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hah! Smart comment!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Why not try looking under the seat cushions? It's
amazing what goes down behind them.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty tried to prod behind the control panel without
Johnny noticing. He noticed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Maybe aliens don't watch the same kind of films we
watch?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right, all right, no need to go on about it,' she
snarled. She looked at the controls, and pressed a
switch. The hatch swung up. The Captain's face
appeared on a small screen in the middle of the
panel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Eight minutes to the Border,' she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Kirsty. She shoved a hand down behind
her seat cushion, and then looked at Johnny's grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You see aliens everywhere, don't you,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What's that supposed to mean?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Nothing. Nothing. Just a thought.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She glowered at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were seat belts. They put them on. Kirsty
started to drum her fingers on the panel. She seemed to
be looking for something.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How do we open the doors?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right, all right - it's got to be here somewhere.'
She pressed a button. Behind them, the ramp rose up
and hissed into place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny looked around. There really was nowhere for
anyone to hide. They were aboard the escape craft.
They were safe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't feel safe. He grabbed Kirsty's arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wait a minute,' he said urgently. 'I think some-
thing's wro-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen flickered into life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a ScreeWee there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the Gunnery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Run and hide, human scum,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They could see the screen behind him; he was on the
bridge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You? Where is the Captain?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She will be dealt with. While you run away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty nudged him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Look, the ScreeWee are safe,' she said. 'The Border
is only a few minutes away. We've done it all! You
can't chase around after her now! She'll have to
take her chances! That's what she'd say if you asked
her!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'But I can't ask her, can I?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reached over and pushed a switch. There was a
whirring behind them as the ramp slid down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm going back up there,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'He'll be waiting for you!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Fine.' He picked up the alien gun. 'Which bit's the
trigger?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She rolled her eyes. 'This is stupid!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Scared, are you?' said Johnny. His face was pale.
'Me?' She shrugged and snatched the gun. 'I'll take
this,' she said. 'I'm used to guns. You'll only make a
mess of it.'</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36297354" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36297356" class="calibre8"></a>12 <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Just Like The Real Thing</div>
<div class="paragraph">They ran down the ramp and back to the corridor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Got a watch on?' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. We've got more than six minutes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I should have known!' said Johnny, as they ran. 'No-
one gets that long to escape! James Bond never turns up
with enough time to have a cup of coffee and clean his
shoes before he disarms the time bomb! We're playing
games again!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Calm down!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'If we find a cat I'm going to kick it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The corridors were darker. Water dripped from the
ceiling. There was still some steam, hissing out of
broken pipes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They reached a junction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Which way?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty pointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'That way.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Are you sure?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Of course.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">They disappeared into the gloom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">About thirty seconds later they reappeared, running.
'Oh, yes, of course.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Well, they all look the same, actually. It must be this
way!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">This one did lead to the wide corridor with the door
to the bridge at the far end.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was open. They could see the blue and white
flickering of the big screen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty changed her grip on the gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'O-kay,' she said. 'No messing about this time,
right? No talking?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'All right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Let's go.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You walk in there. When he leaps out at you, I'll
get him.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh? I'm bait, am I?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty glanced at her wrist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You've got four and half minutes to think of some-
thing better,' she said. 'Oh, sorry. Four minutes and
twenty-five seconds. Hang on, that's twenty seconds
now</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I just hope you're good!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty patted the gun. 'Regional Champion, remem-
ber? Trust me.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny walked towards the open doorway. He tried
to swivel his eyes both ways as he reached it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Four minutes and fifteen seconds,' said her voice, far,
far behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He halted on the threshold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How come you weren't National Champion?' he
said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I had food poisoning on the day, actually.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Oh. Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stepped through.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Multi-toothed death failed to happen to him. He
risked a better look to either side and then, swallowing,
upwards as well.
'Nothing here,' he said.
'OK. I'm right behind you.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the screen the Border was already much bigger.
We're travelling very fast, he thought, and it's still
more than four minutes away, and already it's filling the
sky. Huge isn't the word for it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I can see all round the room,' he said. 'No-one s
here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There was a control panel, wasn't there?' said
Kirsty. 'Hang on I'm in the doorway now. Yes.
It's got to be behind the controls. Go ahead. I'm ready
if it leaps out.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">I'm not, he thought. He sidled across the floor until
he could just see behind the bank of instruments.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's noth ... hold it.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think it's the Captain.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is it alive?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'She. She's a she. You know she's a she. I can't tell.
She's just ... lying there. I'll have a look.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What good would that do?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm going to have a look, all right?'
'Careful, then. Stay where I can keep an eye on you.
He moved forward, searching the shadows around
the edge of the huge room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was the Captain, and she was alive. At least, bits
of what was probably her chest were going up and
down. He knelt beside her.
'Captain?' he whispered.
She opened one eye.
'Chosen One?'
'What happened?'
'He was ... waiting. While I ... talked to you
he crept in ... hit me</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Where'd he go then?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You... must... go. Not much time... left. The
fleet...is...'
'You're hurt. I'll get Ki - Sigourney over here
Her claw gripped his arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Listen to me! He's going ... to blow up the
ship! The fuel ... the power plant ... he's . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stood up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is she all right?' Kirsty called out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I don't know!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was standing in the doorway, outlined against
the light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a shadow behind her. As Johnny watched,
it spread its arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was bigger than a ScreeWee should be, now. It
wasn't a funny alligator - there was still a suggestion
of alligator there, but now there was insect, too, and
other things ... things that had never existed outside
of dreams</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny shouted: 'He's behind you!' Then he lowered
his head and ran.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty turned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You can't trust dreams. If you live inside them, they'll
turn on you, carry you along .</div>
<div class="paragraph">He saw Kirsty turn and look up, and up, at the Gun-
nery Officer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee opened his mouth. There were more
teeth than he'd had before; rows and rows of them, and
every one glistening and sharp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her dream, Johnny thought. No wonder she always
fights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Shoot it! Shoot it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was just staring. She didn't seem to want to
move.
'You've got the gun!' he screamed.
She was like a statue.
'Shoot it!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty shook her head vaguely and then, as if she'd
suddenly clicked awake, raised the gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'OK,' she said. 'Now-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee ignored her. He jerked his head up
and focused on Johnny. He hardly had eyes, now. The
alien seemed to be looking at Johnny with its teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Ah. The Chosen One,' it said. It slapped Kirsty out
of the way. She couldn't even have seen its arm move.
One moment she was aiming, and the next she was
lifted into the air and dropping in a heap a few metres
away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The gun clattered on to the floor and slid towards
Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Chosen One!' hissed the ScreeWee. 'Foolish! We
are what we are! You disgrace your race and mine! For
you, and her ... for you, there's no going back . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty was trying to get to her feet, her face con-
torted with anger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny reached down and picked up the gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee waved two arms in a sudden move-
ment. Johnny flinched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He heard, from a long way away, Kirsty call out:
'Quick! Throw it to me! To me!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The alien smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny backed away a little. The alien was concen-
trating entirely on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'To me, you idiot!' shouted Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You?' said the alien to Johnny. 'Shoot me? You
can't. Such weakness. Like your Captain. A disgrace
to the ScreeWee. Always weak. And that is why
you want peace. The strong never want peace.
Johnny raised the gun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The alien moved forward, slowly. His teeth seemed
to fill the world. His arms seemed longer, his claws
sharper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You cannot,' it said. 'I've watched you. At least the
other humans could fight! We could die honourably!
But you ... you talk and talk ... you'd do anything
rather than fight. You'd do anything but face the truth.
You save mankind? Hah!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny stepped back again, and felt the edge of the
control desk behind him. There was no more
retreating.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Will you surrender?' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Never!'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny saw a movement out of the corner of his eye.
Kirsty was going to try to leap on the thing. But the
alien wasn't like the guards, now. She wouldn't stand
a chance
He fired.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a small, sharp explosion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee looked down in shock at the sudden
blue stain spreading across his overall, and then back up
to Johnny almost in bewilderment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You shot me ... in cold blood . .</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No. My blood's never cold.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The alien toppled forward. And now he was smaller
again, more like a ScreeWee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And I had to,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You shot him,' said the voice behind him. He looked
round. The Captain had pulled herself to her feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'
'You had to. But I didn't think you could . .
Johnny looked down at the gun. His knuckles were
white. With some difficulty, he managed to persuade
his fingers to let go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I didn't think I could, either.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He walked over to Kirsty, who was staring at the
thing on the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Wow,' she said, but quietly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You-'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes, I shot him. I shot him. I wish I didn't have to,
but I had to. He was alive and now he isn't.' There were
more alarms sounding now, and red lights flashing on
the control panel. On the screen, the Border completely
filled the sky. 'Can we go? How much longer have we
got left?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked hazily at her watch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'A minute and a half.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was amazed. He felt he was sitting inside his own
head, watching himself. There wasn't any panic. The
him who was watching didn't know what to do, but
one outside seemed to know everything. It was...
like a dream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can you run?' She nodded. 'Really fast? What am
I saying? You've probably won medals. Come on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pulled her after him, out of the bridge and along
the dark corridors. Kirsty was hardly concentrating any
more; the walls glistened less. There were even nuts and
bolts again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They reached the capsule. Johnny ran from leg to leg
until he found the button that let down the ramp. It
seemed to take ages to come down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How long?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We've got fifty seconds . .
Up the ramp, into the seats.
There weren't many controls. Johnny peered at them.
'What are you doing?' said Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Like you said before. Looking for one marked
"Doors Open".'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screen flickered into life</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny? The doors open from up here,' said the
Captain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny glanced up at Kirsty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'We didn't know that,' he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is the ramp back up?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Doors opening.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a clonk ahead of them, and a hiss as the
air in the hall escaped through the widening crack.
The twinkling, unreal stars of game space beckoned
them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny's hand hovered over the biggest red button
on the panel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny?'
'Yes, Captain.'
'Thank you. You did it,'
'If not me, then who?'
'Hah. Yes. And now.
'Perhaps we shall meet again.'
'Goodbye.'
'We could not have done it if we had 
not had you to help us.'
'Anything else?'
'Goodbye. We will not forget you.'
Johnny looked at Kirsty.
'How long?'
'Ten seconds!'
'Let's go.'
He hit the button.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a boom behind them. The walls flashed
past. And suddenly they were surrounded by sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Johnny leaned back against the seat. His mind was
blank, empty, except for something which kept on
replaying itself like a piece of film.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Over and over again, his memory fired the gun. Over
and over again, the alien collapsed. Action replay. Pin-
point precision. Just like the Real Thing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kirsty nudged him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Can we steer it?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Hmm? What?' He looked vaguely at the controls.
'Well, there's this joystick</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Turn us round, then. I want to watch them go
through.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. Me too.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The capsule turned gently in the deep void of game
space, right up against the Border.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ScreeWee fleet hurtled past. As each ship
reached the Border it flickered and faded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Do you think they've got a planet to go to, really?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think they think so.'
'Do you think they'll ever be back?'
'Not now.
'Um ... look... when I looked up and I saw that
thing . . I mean, it was so real. And I thought, but
it's alive, it's living, how can I '
'Yes,' said Johnny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'And then it was dead and ... and I didn't feel like
cheering.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'When it's real, it's not easy. Because people die and
it's really over.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. I know. Over and over. D'you know what?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'My friend Yo-less thinks dreams like this are a way
of dealing with real life.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I think it's the other way round.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yo-less is the black one?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes. We call him Yo-less because he's not cool.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Anti-cool's quite cool too.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Is it? I didn't know that. Is it still cool to say "well
wicked"?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny! It was never cool to say "well wicked".'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How about "vode"?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Vode's cool.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I just made it up.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">The capsule drifted onwards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'No reason why it can't be cool, though.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Game stars glittered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'How come you get on with people so well? How
come people always talk to you?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Dunno. Because I listen, I suppose. And it helps to
be stupid.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Johnny?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Still here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What did you mean ... you know, back there?
When you said I see aliens everywhere?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Um. Can't remember.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You must have meant something.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'I'm not even sure there are aliens. Only different
kinds of us. But I know what the important thing is.
The important thing is to be exactly sure about what
you're doing. The important thing is to remember it's
not a game. None of it. Even the games.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ship became a dot against the night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'What do we do to get home? I've always had to die
to get out.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'You can get out if you win.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'There's a green button here.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Worth a try, yes?'</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">Light was streaming into the room when Johnny woke
up. He lay in someone else's bed and looked around
through half-closed eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was like all spare rooms everywhere. There was the
lamp that was a bit old-fashioned and didn't fit in
anywhere else. There was the bookcase with the
books that no-one read much. There was a lack of
small things, apart from an ashtray on the bedside
table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a clock, but at some time in the past the
mains had gone off for a while and although people
must have sorted out every other clock in the house,
they'd forgotten about this one, so it just sat and flashed
7:41 continuously, day and night. But an absence of
sound from below suggested that it was still early in the
morning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He snuggled down, treasuring this time stolen
between dreaming and waking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So - . . what next? He'd have to talk to Kirsty, who
dreamed of being Sigourney and forgot that she was
trying to be someone who was acting. And he had a
suspicion that he'd see his parents before long. He was
probably going to be talked at a lot, but at least that'd
make a change.</div>
<div class="paragraph">These were still Trying Times. There was still
school. Nothing actually was better, probably. No-one
was doing anything with a magic wand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the fleet had got away. Compared to that,
everything else was ... well, not easy. But less like a
wall and more like steps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">You might never win, but at least you could try. If
not you, who else?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned over and went back to sleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Border hung in the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Huge white letters, thousands of miles high.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They spelled:</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">GAME</div>
<div class="paragraph">OVER</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">And the fleet roared past. Tankers, battleships,
fighters . . they soared and rolled, their shadows
streaking across the letters as ship after ship escaped, for
ever.</div>
<br class="calibre7"/>
<div class="paragraph">NEW GAME?</div>
<div class="paragraph">(Y/N)</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

