---
layout: page
title: "Severed Heads"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/cook-severed-heads_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216683">Glen Cook</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216830">I</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216872">II</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218187">III</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215440">IV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218600">V</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218675">VI</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218800">VII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218893">VIII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219057">IX</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219194">X</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219308">XI</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36245846">XII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36245949">XIII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36246129">XIV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36246436">XV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36246618">XVI</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Glen Cook <br class="calibre6"/>
  Severed Heads <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216827" class="calibre7"></div>
<br class="calibre7"/>

<h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216830" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36216928" class="calibre8"></a>I <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Narriman was ten when the black rider came to Wadi al Hamamah. He rode tall and arrogant upon a courser as white as his djellaba was black. He looked neither right nor left as he passed among the tents. Old men spat at his horse's hooves. Old women made warding signs. Children and dogs whined and fled. Makram's ass set up a horrible braying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman was not frightened, just confused. Who was this stranger? Why were her people frightened? Because he wore black? No tribe she knew wore black. Black was the color of ifrits and djinn, of the Masters of Jebal al Alf Dhulquarneni, the high, dark mountains brooding over Wadi al Hamamah and the holy place of the al Muburak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman was a bold one. Her elders warned her often, but she would not behave as fit her sex. The old ones shook their heads and said that brat of Mowfik's would be no good. Mowfik himself was suspect enough, what with having gone to the great wars of the north. What business were those of the al Muburak?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman stayed and watched the rider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reined in before her father's tent, which stood apart, drew a black rod from his javelin case, breathed upon it. Its tips glowed. He set that glow against the tent, sketched a symbol, (Symbol) . The old folks muttered and cursed and told one another they'd known despair would haunt Mowfik's tent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman ran after the stranger, who rode down the valley toward the shrine. Old Farida shouted after her. She pretended not to hear. She dodged from shadow to shadow, rock to rock, to the hiding place from which she spied on the rites of her elders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She watched the rider pass through the Circle with arrogance unconquered. He did not glance at Karkur, let alone make obeisance and offerings. She expected the Great Death to strike him ere he left the Circle, but he rode on, untouched. She watched him out of sight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman stared at the god. Was Karkur, too, a frightened antique? She was shaken. Karkur's anger was a constant. Each task, each pleasure, had to be integrated with his desires. He was an angry god. But he had sat there like a red stone lump while a heathen defiled his Circle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sun was in the west when she returned to camp. Old Farida called for her immediately. She related what she had seen. The old folks muttered and whispered and made their signs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who was he, Farida? What was he? Why were you afraid?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Farida spat through the gap in her teeth. "The Evil One's messenger. A shaghun out of the Jebal." Farida turned her old eyes on the Mountains of A Thousand Sorcerers. She made her magic sign. "It's a mercy your mother didn't live to see this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">But just then the guard horn sounded, ending on a triumphant note. The hunters had returned. Karkur had favored the tribe. Narriman ran to tell her father about the stranger.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216872" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36216874" class="calibre8"></a>II <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Mowfik had an antelope behind his saddle, a string of quail, a brace of hares, and even a box terrapin. "A great hunt, Little Fox. Never was it so fine. Even Shukri took his game." Shukri could do nothing right. He was, probably, the man Narriman would wed, because she was her mother's daughter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her father was so pleased she did not mention the stranger. The other hunters heard from the old ones. Dour eyes turned Mowfik's way. Narriman was afraid for him till she sensed that they felt pity. There was a lot of nodding. The stranger's visit had confirmed their prejudices.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik stopped outside their tent.   "Little Fox, we won't; sleep much tonight. I hope you've gathered plenty of wood."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She heard the weariness in his voice. He had worked harder than the others. He had no woman to ride behind and clean game, no woman to help here at home. Only old Farida, his mother's sister, bothered to offer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Marriman took the quail and hares, arranged them on a mat. She collected her tools, stoked up the fire, settled down to work.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sun settled westward and slightly south. A finger of fire broke between peaks and stabbed into the wadi, dispelling shadows. Mowfik glanced up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned pale. His mouth opened and closed. Finally, he gurgled, "What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She told him about the rider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat with head bent low. "Ah, no. Not my Little Fox." And, in response to an earlier question, "There are those even Karkur dares not offend. The rider serves one greater than he." Then, thoughtfully, "But perhaps he's shown the way. There must be a greater reason than a feast when game runs to the hunter's bow." He rose, walked into the shadows, stared at those dread mountains that no tribe dared invade. Then he said, "Cook only meat that might spoil before we get it smoked."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tell me what it means, Father."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I suppose you're old enough. You've been Chosen. The Masters sent him to set their mark, that all might know. It's been a long time since a shaghun came. The last was in my mother's time."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218187" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218189" class="calibre8"></a>III <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Mowfik had been north and had bathed in alien waters. He could think the unthinkable. He could consider defying the Masters. He dug into his war booty to buy Makram's ass. He loaded all he possessed on two animals and walked away. He looked back only once. "I should never have come back."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They went north over game trails, through the high, rocky places, avoiding other tribes. They spent twelve days in the hills before descending to a large oasis. For the first time Narriman saw people who lived in houses. She remained close to Mowfik. They were strange.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There. In the east. That is el Aswad, the Wahlig's fortress." Narriman saw a great stone tent crowning a barren hill. "And there, four days' ride, lies Sebil el Selib, the pass to the sea." He pointed northeast. His arm swung to encompass the west. "Out there lies the great erg called Hammad al Nakir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Heat shimmered over the Desert of Death. For a moment she thought she saw the fairy towers of fallen Ilkazar, but that was imagination bom of stories Mowfik had brought home from his adventures. Ilkazar had been a ruin for four centuries.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'll water here, cross the erg, and settle over there. The shaghun will never find us."</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took eight days, several spent lost, to reach Wadi el Kuf, the only oasis in the erg. It took fourteen more to finish and find a place to settle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The new life was bewildering. The people spoke the same language, but their preoccupations were different. Narriman thought she would go mad before she learned their ways. But learn she</div>
<div class="paragraph">did. She was the bold one, Mowfik's daughter, who could question everything and believe only that which suited her. She and her father remained outsiders, but less so than among their own people. Narriman liked the settled people better. She missed only old Farida and Karkur. Mowfik insisted that Karkur was with them in spirit.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36215440" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36215442" class="calibre8"></a>IV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Narriman was twelve when the rider reappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was in the fields with her friends Ferial and Feras. It was a stony, tired field. Ferial's father had bought it cheap, offering Mowfik a quarter interest if he would help prove it up. That morning, while the children dug stones and piled them into a wall, Mowfik and his partner were elsewhere. Feras had been malingering all morning, and was the scorn of Narriman and his sister. He saw the rider first.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was barely visible against a background of dark rocks and shadow. He was behind a boulder which masked all but his horse's head. But he was there. Just watching. Narriman shuddered. How had he found them?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He served the Masters. Their necromancy was great. Mowfik had been foolish to think they could escape.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who is he?" Ferial asked. "Why are you afraid?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not afraid," Narriman lied. "He's a shaghun." Here in the north some lords had shaghuns of their own. She had to add, "He rides for the Masters of the Jebal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ferial laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman said, "You'd believe if you had lived in the shadow of the Jebal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Feras said, "The Little Fox is a bigger liar than her namesake."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman spit at his feet. "You're so brave, huh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He doesn't scare me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then come with me to ask what he wants."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Feras looked at Narriman, at Ferial, and at Narriman again. Male pride would not let him back down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman had her pride too. I'll go just a little way, she told herself. Just far enough to make Feras turn tail. I won't go near him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her heart fluttered. Feras gasped, ran to catch up. Ferial called, "Come back. Feras. I'll tell Father."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Feras groaned. Narriman would have laughed had she not been so frightened. Feras was trapped between pride and punishment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The certainty of punishment made him stick. He meant to make the whipping worth the trouble. No girl would outbrave him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were seventy yards away when Feras ran. Narriman felt the hard touch of the shaghun's eyes. A few steps more, just to prove Feras was bested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She took five long, deliberate steps, stopped, looked up. The shaghun remained immobile. His horse tossed its head, shaking off flies. A different horse, but the same man... . She met his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something threw a bridle upon her soul. The shaghun beckoned, a gentle come hither. Her feet moved. Fifty yards. Twenty-five. Ten. Her fear mounted. The shaghun dismounted, eyes never leaving hers. He took her arm, drew her into the shadow of the boulder. Gently, he pushed her back against the rock.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you want?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He removed the cloth across his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was just a man! A young man, no more than twenty. He wore the ghost of a smile, and was not unhandsome, but his eyes were cold, without mercy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His hand came to her, removed the veil she had begun wearing only months ago. She shivered like a captive bird.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," he whispered. "As beautiful as they promised." He touched her cheek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She could not escape his eyes. Gently, gently, he tugged here, untied there, lifted another place, and she was more naked than at any moment since birth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In her heart she called to Karkur. Karkur had ears of stone. She shivered as she recalled Mowfik saying that there were powers before whom Karkur must nod.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shaghun piled their clothing into a narrow pallet. She gasped when he stood up, and tried to break his spell by sealing her eyes. It did no good. His hands took her naked flesh and gently forced her down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He drove a burning brand into her, punishing her for having dared flee. Despite her determination, she whimpered, begged him to stop. There was no mercy in him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The second time there was less pain. She was numb. She ground her eyelids together and endured. She did not give him the pleasure of begging.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The third time she opened her eyes as he entered her. His gaze caught hers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The effect was a hundred times what it had been when he had called her. Her soul locked with his. She became part of him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her pleasure was as great, as all-devouring, as her pain the first time. She begged, but not for mercy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he rose, snatched his clothing, and she cried again, shame redoubled because he had made her enjoy what he was doing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His movements were no longer languid and assured. He dressed hastily and sloppily. There was fear in his eyes. He leaped onto his mount and dug in his heels.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman rolled into a tight ball of degradation and pain, and wept.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218600" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218602" class="calibre8"></a>V <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Men shouted. Horses whinnied. "He went that way!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There he goes! After him!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik swung down and cast his cloak over Narriman. She buried her face in his clothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The thunder of hooves, the cries of outrage and the clang of weapons on shields, receded. Mowfik touched her. "Little Fox?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go away. Let me die."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. This will pass. This will be forgotten. There's no forgetting death." His voice choked on rage. "They'll catch him. They'll bring him back. I'll give you my own knife."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They won't catch him. He has the Power. I couldn't fight him. He made me want him. Go away. Let me die."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No." Mowfik had been to the wars in the north. He had seen rape. Women survived. The impact was more savage when the victim was one of one's own, but that part of him that was Man and not outraged father knew this was not the end.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You know what they'll say." Narriman wrapped his cloak about her. "Ferial and Feras will tell what they saw. People will think I went willingly. They'll call me whore. And what they call me I'll have to be. What man would have me now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik signed. He heard truth. When the hunters returned, chastened by losing the man in their own territory, they would seek excuses for failing, would sec in a less righteous light. "Get dressed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let me die, Father. Let me take my shame off your shoulders."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop that. Get dressed. We have things to do. We'll sell while people are sympathetic. We started over here. We can start again somewhere else. Up. Into your clothes. Do you want them to see you like this? Time to make the brave show."</div>
<div class="paragraph">All her life he had said that, whenever people hurt her. "Time to make the brave show."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tears streaming, she dressed. "Did you say that to Mother, too?" Her mother had been brave, a northern girl who had come south out of love. She had been more outsider than Mowfik.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. Many times. And I should've held my tongue. I should've stayed in the north. None of this would have happened had we stayed with her people."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik's partner did not try to profit from his distress. He paid generously. Mowfik did not have to waste war booty to get away.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218675" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218677" class="calibre8"></a>VI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">A Captain Al Jahez, whom Mowfik had served in the wars, gave him a position as huntsman. He and Narriman had now fled eight hundred miles from Wadi al Hamamah.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman began to suspect the worst soon after their arrival. She remained silent till it became impossible to fool herself. She went to Mowfik because there was nowhere else to go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Father, I'm with child."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He did not react in the traditional way. "Yes. His purpose was to breed another of his kind."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What will we do?" She was terrified. Her tribe had been unforgiving. The settled peoples were only slightly less so in these matters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's no need to panic. I discussed mis with Al Jahez when we arrived. He's a hard and religious man, but from el Aswad originally. He knows what comes out of the Jebal. His goatherd is old. He'll send us into the hills to replace him. We'll stay away a few years while he stamps your widowhood into everyone's mind. You'll come back looking young for your age. Men will do battle for such a widow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why are you so kind? I've been nothing but trouble since that rider came down the wadi."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're my family. All I have. I live the way of the Disciple, unlike so many who profess his creed because it's politic."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And yet you bow to Karkur."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He smiled. "One shouldn't overlook any possibility. I'll speak with Al Jahez. We'll go within the week."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Life in the hills, goatherding, was not unpleasant. The land was hard, reminding Narriman of home. But this was tamer country. Wolves and lions were few. The kids were not often threatened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As her belly swelled and the inevitable drew nearer, she grew</div>
<div class="paragraph">ever more frightened. "Father, I'm not old enough for this. I'm going to die. I know it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, you won't." He told her that her mother, too, had grown frightened. That all women were afraid. He did not try to convince her that her fears were groundless, only that fear was more dangerous than giving birth. "I'll be with you, I won't let anything happen. And AJ Jahez promises he'll send his finest midwife."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Father, I don't understand why you're so good to me. And I'm baffled as to why he's so good to you. He can't care that much because you rode in his company."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik shrugged. "Perhaps because I saved his life at the Battle of the Circles. Also, there are more just men than you believe."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You never talk about the wars. Except about places you saw."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those aren't happy memories, Little Fox. Dying and killing and dying. And in the end, nothing gained, either for myself or the glory of the Lord. Will you tell the young ones about these days when you're old? Those days weren't happy, but I saw more than any al Muburak before or since."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was the only one of a dozen volunteers who survived. And maybe that, instead of the foreign wife, was why he had become an outcast. The old folks resented him for living when their sons were dead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What will we do with a baby. Father?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What? What people always do. Raise him to be a man."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It'll be a boy, will it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I doubt me not it will, but a girl will be as welcome." He chuckled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will you hate him?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hate him? We are talking about my daughter's child. I can hate the father, but not the infant. The child is innocent."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You did travel in strange lands. No wonder the old ones didn't like you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Old ones pass on. Ideas are immortal. So says the Disciple."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She felt better afterward, but her fear never evaporated.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218800" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218802" class="calibre8"></a>VII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"A fine son," the old woman said with a toothless smile. "A fine son. I foretell you now, little mistress, he'll be a great one. See it here, in his hands." She held the tiny, purplish, wrinkled, squalling thing high. "And he came forth with the cap. Only the</div>
<div class="paragraph">truly destined, the chosen ones, come forth with that. Aye, you've mothered a mighty one."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman smiled though she heard not a tenth of the babble. She cared only that the struggle was over, that the pain had receded. There was a great warmth in her for the child, but she hadn't the strength to express it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik ducked into the tent. "Sadhra. Is everything all right?" His face was pale. Dimly, Narriman realized he had been frightened too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Both came through perfectly. Al Jahez has a godson of whom he can be proud." She repeated her predictions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Old Mother, you'd better not tell him that. That smacks of superstition. He's strict about religious deviation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The decrees of men, be they mere men or Chosen of the Lord, can't change natural law. Omens are omens."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"May be. May be. Shouldn't you give her the child?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aye. So I should. I'm hogging him because one day I'll be able to say I held such a one." She dropped the infant to Narriman's breast. He took the nipple, but without enthusiasm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't worry, little mistress. Soon he'll suckle hearty."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Sadhra," Mowfik said. "Al Jahez chose well. I'm in both your debts."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was my honor, sir." She left the tent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Such a one, eh, Little Fox? Making him the Hammer of God before he draws his first breath."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman stared up at him. He wasn't just tired. He was disturbed. "The rider?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's out there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought so. I felt him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I stalked him, but he eluded me. I didn't dare go far."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Perhaps tomorrow." As she drifted into sleep, though, she thought, You'll never catch him. He'll deceive you with the Power. No warrior will catch him. Time or trickery will be his death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She slept. And she dreamed of the rider and the way it had been for her the third time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She dreamed that often. It was one thing she kept from Mowfik. He would not understand. She did not understand herself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe she was a whore at heart.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218893" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218895" class="calibre8"></a>VIII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Narriman called the child Misr Sayed bin Hammad al Muburak, meaning he was Misr Sayed, son of the desert, of the al Muburak tribe. Hammad could be a man's name also, so it became that of her missing husband. Misr's grandfather, however, called him Towfik el-Masiri, or Camel's Feet, for reasons only he found amusing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr grew quickly, learned rapidly, and was startlingly healthy. Seldom was he colicky or cranky, even when cutting teeth. He was happy most of the time, and always had a big hug for his grandfather. Narriman remained perpetually amazed that she could feel so much love for one person. "How do women love more than one child?" she asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik shrugged. "It's a mystery to me. I was my mother's only. You're your mother's only."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The first two years were idyllic. The baby and goats kept them too busy to worry. In the third year, though, Mowfik grew sour. His heart was not in his play with Misr. One day Narriman found him honing his war sword and watching the hills. Then she understood. He expected the rider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The prospect fired her fantasies. She ached for the shaghun. She held her left hand near the fire till pain burned the lust away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shortly after Misr's third birthday Mowfik said, "I'm going to see Al Jahez. It's time you became Hammad's widow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will we be safer there? Won't the shaghun just ride in like he did before?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Al Jahez thinks not. He thinks the priests can drive him away."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman went to the tent flap, surveyed the unfriendly hills. "Go see him. I'm afraid to go back where people might cry shame, but I'm more scared of the shaghun."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd hoped you'd feel that way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had begun to relax. The night had passed without incident. Mowfik should be back by noon. If she could stay too busy to worry... .</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was almost noon when Misr called, "Mama, Grandpa coming." She sighed, put her mending aside, and went to meet him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, no. Karkur defend us." Misr could not be blamed for his mistake. He'd seldom seen anyone but Mowfik on horseback.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shaghun was far down the valley, coming toward her. He seemed larger than life, like a far city seen through the shimmer</div>
<div class="paragraph">over the great erg. He came at an unhurried walk. The rise and fall of his animal's legs was hypnotic. He did not seem to draw</div>
<div class="paragraph">any closer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go into the tent, Misr."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do it. And don't come out till I tell you. No matter what."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama, what's wrong?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Misr! Go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama, you're scaring me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She gave him her fiercest look. He scooted inside. "And close the flap." She turned. The rider looked twice as big but no nearer. His pace was no faster. The shame in her heart grew with the heat in her loins. She knew he would take her, and her evil side called to him eagerly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He came closer. She thought of running into the hills. But what good that? He would hunt her down. And Misr would be left alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She snatched the bow Mowfik used for hunting, sped an arrow toward the rider. She missed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was good with that weapon. Better than her father, who remained perpetually amazed that a woman could do anything better than a man. She should not have missed. She sped a second and third arrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Each missed. The fourth plucked at his djellaba, but only because he was so close. There was no fifth. She had seen his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bow fell from her hand. He dismounted and walked toward her, reaching.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Only one moment from the next hour stuck with her. Misr came outside, saw the rider thrusting into her, ran over and bit him on the buttocks. That would remain with her forever, in that mixture of amusement and pain such a thing could recall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Afterward he stared into her eyes. His will beat against her. She dwindled into sleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Cursing wakened her. It was the violent cursing of savagery and hatred. She felt too lazy to open her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She recalled the inexorable approach of the man in black coming up the valley on a line as straight as the arrow of time. She recalled his touch, her fevered response. She felt the sun on her naked shame. She flew up, wrapped herself in discarded clothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik belabored a fallen tree with his axe, cursing steadily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He blasphemed both Karkur and the Lord of the Disciple. She scrambled into her clothing, frightened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Exhaustion stopped Mowfik. He settled on the tree trunk and wept. Narriman went to comfort him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's all right, Father. He didn't hurt me. He shamed me again, but he didn't hurt me." She put her arms around him. "It'll be all right, Father."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little Fox, he took Misr. It wasn't you this time."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219057" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36219059" class="calibre8"></a>IX <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Narriman changed, hardened, saddened. The Narriman of Wadi al Hamamah would not have recognized her. That Narriman would have been terrified by her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik took her to see Al Jahez. The captain was properly outraged. He set his men to scouring the country. He sent an alarm across the kingdom. He appealed to the Most Holy Mrazkim Shrines for a Writ of Anathema, and for prayers for the Lord's intervention.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And that is all I can do. And it's pointless. He won't be seen. Those who serve the Masters come and go as they please."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can't somebody do something?" Narriman demanded. "How long has this been going on? How many women have had to suffer this?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's gone on forever," Al Jahez said. "It went on throughout the age of Empire. It went on before the Empire was bom. It'll go on tomorrow, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why isn't it stopped?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because no one can stop it. One of the Emperors tried. He sent an .army into the Jebal. Not one man returned."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was venting frustration. She knew the futility of battling the Masters. No, this was personal. This was between herself and one shaghun. The Masters were but shadows beyond the horizon, too nebulous to factor into the emotional equation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That man took my son. My son. I don't recognize his claim. He did nothing but force me onto my back."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman?" Mowfik said, baffled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want my son back."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can't do anything about that," Al Jahez said. "The shaghun is who he is, and we're who we are."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman?" Again Mowfik was puzzled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought about this all day, Father. I'm going after Misr."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez said, "But you're a child. And a woman."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've grown up the past few years. I'm small, but I'm no child. As to my sex, say what you will. It won't change my mind."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Father, will you stop saying that? You stood by me when I begged you not to. You drowned me in love I did not deserve. Stand by me now. Give me what I need to get Misr back. Teach me what I need to know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez shook his head. "Mowfik, you were right. She is remarkable."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little Fox. ... It would take so long. And I'm not rich. I can't afford weapons and mounts and. ..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We have a horse. We have a sword. You were a soldier. I can survive in the wilderness. I was of the al Muburak."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik sighed. "The sword is too heavy, girl."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman glanced at Al Jahez. The captain tried to disappear among his cushions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little Fox, I don't want to lose you too. I couldn't bear that." Mowfik's voice cracked. Narriman glimpsed a tear in the corner of one eye. This would cost him dearly from his beggared emotional purse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He did not want to see her ride away. His heart said he would not see her again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That dark rider had stolen her from him as surely as he had stolen Misr. She threw her arms around Mowfik. "Father, I have to do this. Wouldn't you come after me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. Yes, I would. I understand that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez said, "This isn't wise. The impossibility of dealing with the shaghun and the Jebal aside, what would happen to a young woman alone? Even honest men would consider her fair for a moment's sport. Not to mention slavers and bandits. The Disciple instituted a rule of law, little one, but the Evil One, as ever, rules most of the land."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those are problems to face when they arise." What he said was true. She could not deny that. Women had no legal status or protection. When the shaghun forced her onto her back he injured her father, not her. An unattached woman was not a person.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her resolve was not shaken. Damned be the problems, and anyone who stood in her way.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219194" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36219196" class="calibre8"></a>X <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">When she wanted something badly Narriman got her yay. Mowfik surrendered in the end. Once he gave in, Al J^ihez grudgingly endorsed her training.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman pursued it with a dogged determination that, in time, compelled the respect of Al Jahez's men. She arrived early and left late, and worked harder than any boy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was hard. She ignored bruises and aches. Her instructors called her Vixen and backed away when the deadly fire ros(e in her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One day she browbeat Mowfik into taking her to the captain. She told Al Jahez, "I'm ready. I leave tomorrow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez addressed her father. "Will you permit this, Mowfik? A woman under arms. It's against nature."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mowfik shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman said, "Don't stall me. Father's done that for weeks. I'll go with or without your blessing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mowfik, forbid this madness."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Captain, you heard her. Shall I put her in irons?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez looked at her as if he would cage her for her own protection. "Then marry her to me, Mowfik."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Though struck speechless, Narriman understood. Al Jahez wanted the legal rights of marriage. So he could forbid, she could call upon the law if she persisted. If she rebelled they could hunt her like a runaway slave.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pure terror gripped her. She stared at her father, saw him tempted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Captain, heart and soul cry for me to accept. But I can't. A stronger voice bids me let her go. No matter how it hurts me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez sighed, defeated. "As you will. Child. Bring your father no sorrow or shame." He scowled at her expression. No sorrow or shame of your own doing. That which is done b,y a shaghun isn't of your doing. They're like the great storms in the erg. A man—or woman—can but bow his head till they pass. Come. The priests will bless your quest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They waited in their fine ceremonial raiment. Al Jahez's eyes twinkled. "You see? Even the old captain begins to krow you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Perhaps." She wondered if she was too predictable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ceremony was less important to her than to Mowfik and Al Jahez. She endured it for their sakes. She would ride with Karkur.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now then," Al Jahez said. "One more thing and I'll harass you no more. Gamel. The box."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A priest presented a sandalwood box. Al Jahez opened it. Within, on white silk, lay a pendant. It was a small, pale green stone not unlike many she had seen on the ground. Al Jahez said, "Perhaps this will be gift enough to repay you, Mowfik." And to Narriman, "Child, the Disciple teaches that even the acquiescence to sorcery is a sin, but men have to be practical. The Disciple himself has shaghun advisers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The stone is an amulet. It will warn you if you are near one with the Power. It will begin to grow cooler when you're a mile away. When you're very near it will shed a green light. It's the best weapon I can give you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman tried to control the shakes. She failed. Tears broke loose. She hugged the captain. He was so startled he jumped away, but his face betrayed his pleasure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go with the Lord, Little Fox. And Karkur if it pleases you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you," she said. "For everything. Especially for being Father's friend."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Al Jahez snorted. "Ah, child. What are we without friends? Just severed heads rolling across the sands."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219308" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36219310" class="calibre8"></a>XI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Narriman looked back just before Al Jahez's fortress passed out of sight. "That's yesterday." She looked southward, toward the great erg. "There lies tomorrow. Eight hundred miles." She gripped her reins, touched the amulet between her breasts, her weapons, the bag that Mowfik had filled with war booty when he thought she was not looking. He had done everything to dissuade her, and everything to help her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked back again, wondering if their concepts of manhood and womanhood would compel them to send guardians.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go, Faithful," she told her mare. The fortress disappeared. Her heart fluttered. She was going. Alone. A severed head, rolling across the sand, cut off from her body—with a little help from the rider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pictured him as he had been the day he had taken Misr. She got that warm, moist feeling, but not as powerfully. Hatred had begun to quench that fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wished there was a way a woman could do to a man what he had done to her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wilderness was all that she had been warned. It was bitter, unforgiving, and those who dwelt there reflected its harshness. Twice she encountered men who thought her a gift from heaven.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The first time she outrode them. The second, cornered,  she fought. And was surprised to find herself the victor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Though she had told herself she was the equal of any man, she'd never believed it in her heart. Could the wisdom of centuries be wrong? She rode away more mature, more confident.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The great erg was more vast than she remembered. It was hotter and more harrowing. She had no one and nothing to distract her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The severed head has to roll without its body." She put her thoughts into words often. Who was to hear?</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had no choice but to enter Wadi el Kuf. They were shocked to see her, a woman in man's wear, hung about with weapons, talking as tough as any wandering freesword. Even the whores were scandalized. Nobody knew what to make of her. She bought water, asked questions, and rode on before they regained their balance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone came after her, but one arrow altered his ambitions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She rode with dust devils as companions. The al Muburak believed dust devils were ifrits dancing. She called out, but they did not respond. After a few days she began to think oddly, to suspect them of being spies for the Masters. She mocked and taunted them. They ignored her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally, she checked the amulet. Not only did it not shed light, it was not cool. "So much for old stories."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She rode out of the erg and paused at the oasis she had visited coming north. There, as at Wadi el Kuf, she asked about a man in black traveling with a child. There, too, no one had seen such a traveler.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," she muttered. "And maybe they're telling the truth. But he's human. He had to stop at Wadi el Kuf." But he need not have appeared as a shaghun out of the Jebal, need he?</div>
<div class="paragraph">No matter. She knew his destination.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fourteen days passed. She rode into Wadi al Hamamah.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The al Muburak were not there. It was the wrong time of year. They were farther west, stalking wild camels in hopes of adding to their herd.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She camped in the usual place, and when night fell she went to Karkur.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After the proper greetings and obeisances, she told her story in case Mowfik was wrong about his being able to follow an al Muburak anywhere. Karkur sat and listened, firelight sending shadows dancing across his ugly face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She said, "Father says you aren't as great as I thought. That</div>
<div class="paragraph">others are more powerful so sometimes you don't dare help. But if there's a way you can, help do what I have to do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She stared at the image. The image stared back. Time passed. The fire died. The moon rose, filled the Circle with shifting shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Karkur, there's a man named Al Jahez. He follows the Disciple, but he's a good man. Could you reward him? Could you tell Father I've come here safely?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She thought, I'm talking to a lump of rock as though it really could do something. "Tell Al Jahez the severed head goes daft after it's separated."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The moon was great, full thing that inundated the wadi with silver light. She leaned back and stared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something startled her. Fool, she thought. You fell asleep. Her dagger filled her hand. She searched the shadows, saw nothing. She listened. Nothing. She sniffed the air. Again nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She shivered. It was getting cold. Colder than she remembered the nights this time of year. She pulled her cloak tighter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And realized that the cold radiated from one point. The amulet!</div>
<div class="paragraph">She snatched it out. Green! Glowing green. She searched the shadows. Had the shaghun come out to meet her?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The stone flared. It crackled. An emerald snake writhed between it and Karkur. A cold wind swirled around the Circle. Dead leaves pattered against her. She glanced up. No. The sky was clear. Stars winked in their myriads. The moon shone benevolently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The emerald snake turned amber shot with veins of blood. Narriman gasped. That was the combination they mentioned when they talked about the Great Death.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The snake died. The stone grew less cold, became just a small, pale green piece of rock lying in her hand. She stared at Karkur.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What have you done? What have you given me? Not the power of the Great Death?''</div>
<div class="paragraph">The image stared back, as silent as ever. She was tempted to rant. But Karkur gave short shift to ingrates. He was more a punitive than a helpful god. "But loyal to his people," she said. "Thank you, Karkur."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She hurried through the parting rituals and returned to camp. She fell asleep still astonished that Karkur had responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were dreams. Vivid dreams. She rode into the Jebal, moving with an absolute certainty of her way. She knew exactly when to expect the first challenge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The dream ended. The sun had wakened her. She felt fit and</div>
<div class="paragraph">rested. She recalled every detail of the dream. She looked down the wadi. A dumb stone god? She examined Al Jahez's stone. It looked no less ordinary this morning.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36245846" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36245848" class="calibre8"></a>XII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The trails were faint, but she followed them confidently. Once she noted an overturned stone, darker on the exposed side. Someone had been this way recently. She shrugged. The amulet would warn her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mountains were silent. All the world was silent when you rode alone. The great erg had been filled with a stillness as vast as that of death. Here it seemed there should be some sound, if only the call of the red-tailed hawk on the wing. But the only sounds were those of a breeze in scrubby oaks, of water chuckling in one small stream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She moved higher and higher. Sometimes she looked back across the hills where the wadi lay, to the plain beyond, a distance frosted with haze. The al Muburak might profit from such a view.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Night fell. She made a fireless camp. She drank water, ate smoked meat, turned in as the stars came out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wakened once, frightened, but her stone betrayed no danger. The mountains remained still, though the wind made an unfamiliar soughing through nearby pines. She counted more than a dozen meteors before drifting off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her dreams were vivid. In one her father told Al Jahez he was sure she had reached Wadi al Hamamah safely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mountains continued their rise. She rested more often. Come midday she entered terrain scoured by fire. That stark, black expanse was an alien landscape.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The trees changed. Oaks became scarcer, pines more numerous. The mountains became like nothing in her experience. Great looms of rock thrust out of their hips, the layering on end instead of horizontal. Even where soil and grass covered them she could discern the striations. Distant mountainsides looked zebra-striped in the right light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Higher still. The oaks vanished. And then, in the bottom of one canyon, she encountered trees so huge a half dozen men could not have joined hands around their trunks. Narriman felt insignificant in their shadows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She spent her fourth day riding up that canyon. Evening came early. She almost missed the landmarks warning her she was</div>
<div class="paragraph">approaching the first guardian. She considered the failing light. This was no time to hurry. She retreated and camped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Something wakened her. She listened, sniffed, realized the alarming agent was no external. She had dreamed that she should circle the watchpost.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come, Faithful," she whispered. She wrapped the reins in her hand and led away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She knew exactly where to go, and still it was bad. That mountainside was not meant for climbing. The brush was dense and the slope was steep. She advanced a few yards and listened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The brush gave way to a barren area. The soil was loose and dry. She slipped several times. Then her mare went down, screaming and sliding. She held on stubbornly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The slide ended. "Easy, girl. Easy. Stay still."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A glow appeared below. She was surprised. She had climbed higher than she had thought. The glow drifted along the canyon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't fail now. Not at the first hurdle."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her heart hammered. She felt like screaming against clumsiness, stupidity, and the whim of fate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The glow drifted down the canyon, climbed the far slope, came back. It crossed to Narriman's side and went down again. It repeated the patrol but never climbed far from the canyon floor. It never came close enough to make her amulet glow. It finally gave up. But Narriman did not trust it because it had disappeared. She waited fifteen minutes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sky was lightening before she felt comfortably past. She was exhausted. "Good girl, Faithful. Let's camp."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36245949" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36245951" class="calibre8"></a>XIII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">A horse's whinny wakened her. She darted to Faithful, clamped her hands over the mare's nostrils.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sound of hooves on brookside stone came nearer. The amulet became a lump of ice. She saw flickers of black rider through the trees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This one was stockier than her shaghun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her shaghun? Had he touched her that deeply? She looked inward, seeking the hatred of rider and love of son that had brought her to the Jebal. And it was there, the hatred untarnished by any positive feeling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then the rider was gone, headed down the canyon. Was he going to the guardian?</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had no dream memories of the canyon above the guardian. Why not? Couldn't Karkur reach into the realm of the Masters?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The uncertainty became too much. She dismounted and walked. No need to rush into trouble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Minutes later she heard a rhythmic thumping ahead. Something rumbled and crashed and sent echoes tumbling down the canyon. She advanced more carefully, sliding from cover to cover.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She did not know where they came from. Suddenly, they were there, across the brook. They walked like men but were shaggy and dark and tall. There were four of them. The biggest growled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Damn!" She strung her bow as one giant bellowed and charged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her arrow split its breastbone. It halted, plucked at the dart. The others boomed and rushed. She sped two quick arrows, missed once, then drew her saber and scampered toward a boulder. If she got on top... .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Neither wounded monster went down. Both went for the mare. The others came for her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Faithful tried to run, stumbled, screamed. The beasts piled on her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman drew her razor-edged blade across a wide belly. The brute stumbled a few steps, looked down at its wound, began tucking entrails back inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman glanced at the mare as she dodged the other beast. The wounded creatures were pounding her with huge stones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A fist slammed into Narriman's side. She staggered, gasped. Her attacker bellowed and closed in. She tried to raise her saber. It slipped from her hand. She hadn't the strength to grip it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The thing shook her half senseless. Then it sniffed her and grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was something out of nightmare. The thing settled with Narriman in its lap, pawed between her thighs. She felt its sex swell against her back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Was the whole Jebal rape-crazy? "Karkur!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The thing ripped her clothing. Another grunted and tried to touch. The beast holding Narriman swung at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was free for an instant. She scrambled away. The beast roared and dove after her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She closed her hands on her amulet. "Karkur, give me the strength to survive this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The beast snorted weirdly, uttered an odd shriek that tortured the canyon walls. It stumbled away, enveloped by an amber light laced with bloody threads.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another beast came for her. Its cries joined those of the other.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman scrambled after her saber. The last beast, with an</div>
<div class="paragraph">arrow in its chest, watched her with glazed eyes, backed away. She arranged her clothing, ran to Faithful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Poor Faithful." What would she do now? How would she escape the Jebal without a horse for Misr?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The beasts in amber kept screaming. The Great Death was a hard death. It twisted their muscles till bones broke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screaming finally stopped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She heard distant voices.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hurriedly, she made a pack of her possessions, then climbed the canyon wall. She found an outcrop from which she could watch the mess she had fled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Those things! She recalled their size and smell and was sick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The investigators were ordinary men armed with tools. They became excited and cautious when they found the beasts. Narriman heard the word shaghun several times. "Keep thinking that," she murmured. "Don't get the idea there's a stranger in the Jebal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her shakes faded. She offered thanks to Karkur and started across the mountainside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What were those beasts? Those men feared them. She moved with saber in hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The investigators had come from a lumbering camp. She watched men drag a log up a road, toward the head of the canyon. Why? She shrugged. The Masters must want it done.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She took to that road once she passed the camp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That afternoon she heard hoofbeats. She slipped into the underbrush. "Oh, damn!" The horseman carried two of her arrows and Faithful's saddle. She strung her bow, jumped into the road, shouted, "Hey! Wait a minute!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rider reined in, looked back. She waved. He turned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her arrow flew true. He sagged backward. His horse surged forward. Narriman caught it as it passed. She dragged the body into the brush, mounted up wondering how soon he would be missed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The canyon walls closed in. The brook faded away. She reached the summit. The road wound downhill, toward a far haze of smoke. There were a lot of hearthfires down there.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36246129" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36246131" class="calibre8"></a>XIV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">She traveled for two days. The only people she saw were men working logs down the road. She avoided them. She topped a piney ridge the second evening and saw a city.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thoughts of Misr nagged her. Should she go down now? She was ahead of news from the logging camp. But he might not be there. And she was tired. She was incapable of acting efficiently in a desperate situation. Her judgment might be clouded, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She settled down off the road. She would have loved a fire. The mountain nights were chilly. Gnawing dried meat, she grumbled, "I'd sell my soul for a decent meal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sleep brought dreams. They showed her the town, including a place where children were kept. She also saw a place where shaghuns lived, and beyond the city a tower that was an emptiness fraught with dark promise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wakened knowing exactly what to do. Come nightfall she would slip into the city, break into the nursery, and take Misr. Then she would flee, set an ambush down the trail and hope her shaghun was the one who came.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her plan died immediately. Her mount had broken its tether. Its trail led toward the city.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What would they think? Would they investigate? Of course. She'd best move elsewhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She trudged southward, circling the city. Time and again she went out of her way to avoid farmsteads. By nightfall she was exhausted again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had to be tonight, though. There was no more time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What would she do for a mount? Her hope of escape hinged on her being able to lead the pursuit to ground of her own choosing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She settled down near the city's edge. "Karkur, wake me when it's time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a dark night. There was no moon. Clouds obscured half the stars. Narriman arose shaking. Her nerves got no better for a long time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The streets were strange for a girl who'd never walked pavement. Her bootheels kept clicking. Echoes came back off the walls. "Too quiet," she muttered. "Where are the dogs?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not a howl went up. Not one dog came to investigate. Her nerves only tautened. She began to imagine something watching her, the town as a box trap waiting for her to trip its trigger. She dried her hands on her hips repeatedly. The moths in her stomach refused to lie still. She kept looking over her shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She gave the place of the shaghuns a wide berth, closed in on the nursery. Why were the youngsters segregated? Was it a place for children like Misr? The city made no sense. She didn't try to make it do so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The only warning was a rustle of fabric. Narriman whirled,</div>
<div class="paragraph">saber spearing out. It was an automatic move, made without thought. She found herself face to face with a mortally wounded shaghun.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He raised a gloved hand as he sank toward the pavement. His fingers wobbled. Sorcery! She hacked the offending hand, came back with a neck stroke. She cut him again and again, venting nervous energy and fear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do I do with him?" she wondered. She examined him. He was no older than she. She felt a touch of remorse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She glanced around. The street remained quiet. A convenient alleyway lay just a few steps beyond the body.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wondered what he had been doing. Her dreams had suggested that no one wandered the streets after dark, save a night watchman with a special dispensation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Had the horse alerted them? Were there more shaghuns to be faced? Her stomach cramped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe her father and Al Jahez were right. Maybe a woman couldn't do this sort of thing. "And maybe men feel as ragged as I do," she muttered. She dropped the body into shadow. "Give me an hour, Karkur." She went on to the nursery.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anticipation partially overcame her reaction to the killing. She tried a door. It was barred from within. A second door proved as impenetrable. There was a third on the far side, but she assumed it would be sealed too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Above, barely visible, were second-story windows, some with open shutters. If she could... .</div>
<div class="paragraph">She spun into shadow and balled up, blade ready. A shape loomed out of the night, headed her way. Shaghun! Were they all on patrol?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He passed just ten feet away. Narriman held her breath. What were they doing? Looking for her? Or was her fear wholly egotistical?</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a six-foot-wide breezeway between the nursery and building to its left. A stairway climbed the neighbor. A landing hung opposite a nursery window. Narriman secreted her possessions beneath the stair and crept upward. The stair creaked. She scarcely noticed. She could think of nothing but Misr.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The window was open. It was but a short step from the landing. She straddled the railing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone opened the door to which the stair led. Light flooded the landing. A fat man asked, "Here, you. What's? ..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman slashed at him. He grabbed her blade. Off balance, she almost fell. She clung to the railing. It creaked. She jumped for the window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fat man staggered, reached for her, ploughed through the railing. Narriman clung to the window's frame and looked down. The man lay twitching below. "Karkur, don't let him raise the alarm."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room before her was dark. A child mumbled something. Behind Narriman, a woman called a question. Narriman eased into the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The child was not Misr.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone shrieked. Narriman glanced outside. A woman stood on the landing, looking down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman slipped into a hallway running past other bedrooms. Which one? Might as well start with the nearest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She found her son in the fifth she checked. He was sleeping peacefully. His face looked angelic. He seemed healthy. She threw herself on him, weeping, and remained lost within herself till she realized he was awake.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama! What're you doing here?" Misr hugged her with painful ferocity. He cried too. She was glad. Her most secret fear had been that he would have forgotten her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I came to take you home."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where's Granpa?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Home. Waiting for us. Come on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The man, Mama. The dark man. He won't let us." He started shaking. His body was hale, but they had done something to his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He won't stop us, Misr. I won't let him. Get dressed. Hurry." People were talking in the hall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr did as he was told. Slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone shoved through the doorway. "What's going on? ..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman's saber pricked his throat. "Over there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A woman? Who are you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pressed the sword's tip a quarter inch into his chest. "I'll ask. You answer." He shut up and moved. Small children watched from the doorway. "How many shaghuns in this town?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked strange. He did not want to answer. Narriman pricked him. "Four! But one went to the lumber camp three weeks ago. He hasn't come back. You're the boy's sister?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Misr, will you hurry?" Four shaghuns. But one was out of town and another was dead. A third roamed the streets. Was hers the fourth?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You can't take the boy out of here, woman."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pricked him again. "You talk too much. Misr!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He belongs to the Old Ones."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr finished and looked at her expectantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now what? Go the way she had come? She stepped behind her prisoner and hit him with her pommel. He sagged. Misr's eyes got big. She dragged him toward the fall way. He told the others, "I'm going home with my mother." He sounded proud.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was amazed at how he had grown. He acted older, too. No time for that. "Come here." She tossed him across to the landing, jumped, hurried him downstairs. She recovered her belongings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fat man's woman howled all the while. "Shut up!" The woman retreated, whimpering.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman looked into the street. People were gathering. "Misr. This way." She retreated into the breezeway. "A horse," she muttered. "Where do I find a horse?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was about to leave the breezeway when she heard someone running. "Get back, Misr. And be quiet." She crouched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The runner turned into the breezeway. Shaghun! He tried to stop. Narriman drove her blade into his chest. He staggered back. She struck again. This was the shaghun who had missed her earlier.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She smiled grimly. Succeed or fail, they would remember her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, Misr." People were shouting to her right. She headed left, though that was not the direction she preferred. Misr ran beside her. She searched her dream memories for a stable. She did not find one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hope of escape came out of a walking dream that hit like a fist, made her stumble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Karkur wanted her to go eastward. There was a road through the mountains. They would not expect her to flee that way. If she reached the seacoast she could go north and recross the mountains at Sebil el Selib, where the Masters held no sway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But this end of that road ran around the dread tower of her dreams. Who knew what the Masters would do? If their shaghuns were but shadows of themselves, how terrible might they be?</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was afraid but she did not stop moving. Karkur had not failed her yet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And Karkur was right. It was the best way. She saw no one, and no one saw her. And the dark tower greeted her with an indifference she found almost disheartening. Was she that far beneath their notice? She had slain two of their shaghuns.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Keep walking, Misr. We're going to get tired, but we have to keep walking. Otherwise the dark men will catch us."</div>
<div class="paragraph">His face puckered in determination. He stayed with her. The sun was high before she decided to rest.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36246436" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36246438" class="calibre8"></a>XV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Narriman!" The voice boomed through the forest, rang off the mountains. "Narriman!" There was an edge of anger to it, like hers when she was impatient with Misr.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was him. He had not been deceived.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr snuggled closer. "Don't let him take me, Mama."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I won't," she promised, disentangling herself. "I won't." She gave Misr some dried meat. "Eat this. I'll be back in a little while."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't go away, Mama."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have to. You stay put. Just remember what happened last time you didn't do what I said." Damn! That was unfair. He would think the whole thing was his fault. She spat, strung her bow, selected three good arrows, made sure her weapons were ready. Then she went to hunt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman!" He was closer. Why act as if he couldn't find her?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Karkur, of course. That old lump did not dare smash things up in the Jebal. He would not want his hand seen. But he could confuse his enemies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Brush crackled. Narriman froze. He was close. She sank into a patch of shade, arrow on bowstring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman!" His voice boomed. More softly, he talked to himself. "Damned crazy woman. I'll use her hide to bind books." His anger was hard but controlled. Fear wriggled through Narriman's hatred.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Memories flashed. His ride down Wadi al Hamamah. Her rape. The day he had come for Misr. Her knees weakened. He was a shaghun. He had conquered her easily. She was a fool to challenge him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Brush crackled ever closer. She saw something white moving among the trees. His horse. That was him. Coming right to her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There he was. Black rider. Nightmare lover. Misr's father. She pictured Mowfik and Al Jahez. "You!" she breathed. "For what you did to my father."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A twig snapped as she drew her bow. The horse's head snapped up, ears pricking. Her arrow slammed into its throat. It should have struck the shaghun's heart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The animal kept rising into a screaming rear, hooves pounding air. The rider went over backward. Narriman heard his breath explode when he hit ground.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Up she sprang. She let fly again. Her shaft passed through his</div>
<div class="paragraph">djellaba as he rolled, pinned him for a second. In that second Narriman loosed her last arrow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It glanced off his hip bone, leaving a bloody gash across his right buttock. He stumbled a step, fell, regained his feet with a groan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman drew her saber, stalked forward. Her mind boiled with all she wanted to say before she killed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He regained control, drew his own blade. A strained smile crossed his lips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman moved in carefully. I'll attack to his right, she thought. Make him put more strain on his wound. He's battered and bleeding. He'll be slow. I can wear him down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little Fox. Little fool. Why did you come here? Outsiders don't come to the Jebal. Not and leave again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">There'll be a first, then, she thought. But she did not speak. Things she wanted to say rattled through her mind, but not one reached her lips. Her approach was as silent and implacable as his preceding her rapes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She threw three hard, quick strokes. He turned them, but looked disturbed. She was not supposed to do this, was she? She was supposed to fall under his spell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Narriman! Look at me!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was caught by the command. She met his eye.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fire ran through her. She ached for him. And to her surprise, she ignored it. She struck while his guard was loose, opened a gash on his cheek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went pale. His eyes grew larger. He could not believe it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She struck again. He blocked her, thrust back, nearly reached her. He knew she was not dealing with a little girl anymore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He beat her back, then retreated. A weird keening came from him, though his lips did not move. Leaves stirred. A cold wind rose. The tip of Narriman's saber drooped like a candle in the sun. She shifted it to her left hand, pulled her dagger and threw it. Mowfik had taught her that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The dagger struck the shaghun in the left shoulder, spun him. The cold wind died. Narriman moved in with her odd-looking saber. Fear filled the shaghun's eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He plucked the dagger from his wound and made those sounds again. His wounds began to close.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Surprise had been Narriman's best weapon. Fate had stolen that. She feared she had more than she could handle now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She launched a furious attack. He retreated, stumbled, fell. She cut him several times before he rose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he had his confidence back. She could not kill him. He</div>
<div class="paragraph">smiled. Arrow, saber, and dagger. She had exhausted her options.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She did have poison. Would he step up and take it? She had a</div>
<div class="paragraph">garrotte given her by one of Al Jahez's men, half a love offering</div>
<div class="paragraph">and half a well-wish. But would he hold still while she used it?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Brush crackled. She whirled. "Misr! I told you... ."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shaghun smashed into her, knocked her saber away. His</div>
<div class="paragraph">fingers closed around her chin and forced her to turn toward him.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36246618" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36246620" class="calibre8"></a>XVI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Lost! she wailed inside. She should have listened to Al Jahez and Mowfik. The fire was in her again, and she could not stop him. He stripped her slowly, taking pleasure in her humiliation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pressed her down on the stones and pine needles and stood over her, smiling. He disrobed slowly. And Misr stood there watching, too terrified to move.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tears streaming, Narriman forced her eyes shut. She had been so close! One broken twig short.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She felt him lower himself, felt him probe, felt him enter. Felt herself respond. Damn, she hated him!</div>
<div class="paragraph">She found enough hatred to shove against his chest. But only for an instant. Then he was down upon her again, forcing her hands back against her breasts. "Karkur," she wept.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shaghun moaned softly, stopped bucking. His body stiffened. He pulled away. The spell binding Narriman diminished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Great Death!" she breathed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had him, but he was fighting it, Amber wriggled over him, flickering. There were few bloody veins in it. His mouth was open as though to scream, but he was gurgling a form of his earlier keening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Narriman could not watch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It did not occur to her that a mere shaghun, even a shaghun of the jebal, could overcome Karkur's Great Death. He was but stalling the inevitable. She crawled to her discarded clothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr said something. She could not look at him. Her shame was too great.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama. Do something."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She finally looked. Misr pointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shaghun's face was twisted. The muscles of his left arm were knotted. The bone was broken. But there was just one patch of amber left, flickering toward extinction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had bested the Great Death!</div>
<div class="paragraph">A silent wail of fear filled her. There was no stopping him! Raging at the injustice, she seized a dead limb and clubbed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Misr grabbed a stick and started swinging too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Misr. Stop that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mama, he hurt you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You stop. I can do it but you can't." Did that make sense? How could she explain? He's your father, Misr? I can murder him but you can't? No. Some things could not be explained. "Get away."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She swung again. The shaghun tried to block with his injured arm. He failed. The impact sent him sprawling. The Great Death crept over him. She hit him again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked at her with the eyes of the damned. He did not beg, but he did not want to die. He stared. There was no enchantment in his eyes. They contained nothing but fear, despair, and, maybe, regret. He was no shaghun now. He was just a man dying before his time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The club slipped from her fingers. She turned back, collected her clothes. "Misr, let's get our things." For no reason she could appreciate, she recalled Al Jahez's words about severed heads.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She collected the shaghun's sword, considered momentarily, then gave him the mercy he had denied her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You killed him, Mama. You really killed him." Misr was delighted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shut up!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She could have closed her eyes to his screams, but his dying face would have haunted her forever. It might anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When all else was stripped away, he had been a man. And once a mother had wept for him while a dark rider had carried him toward the rising sun.</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

