---
layout: page
title: "Soldier Of An Empire Unacquainted With Defeat"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/cook-soldier-of-an-empire-unacquainted-with-defeat_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216684">Glen Cook Soldier Of An Empire Unacquainted With Defeat</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216930">I</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218277">II</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216232">III</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218741">IV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218944">V</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219134">VI</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219392">VII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36254920">VIII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36255115">IX</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36255637">X</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36255882">XI</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36256079">XII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36256108">XIII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36256410">XIV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36256794">XV</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36256952">XVI</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36257335">XVII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36257513">XVIII</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36257802">XIX</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36258192">XX</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Glen Cook Soldier Of An Empire Unacquainted With Defeat <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216755" class="calibre7"></div>

<div class="paragraph">The empire of the title is Shinsan-The Dread Empire. The soldier is Tain, disillusioned with his past life and seeking peace and a new identity. But the difficulties of leaving one's past behind are insurmountable and Tain must finally accept what he is-a soldier of an empire unacquainted with defeat. For those of you who have read and enjoyed Cook's wonderful Dread Empire books, and for those of you who haven't yet, here is another piece of that world.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216930" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36216932" class="calibre8"></a>I <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">His name was Tain and he was a man to beware. The lacquered armor of the Dread Empire rode in the packs on his mule.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The pass was narrow, treacherous, and, therefore, little used. The crumbled slate lay loose and deep, clacking underfoot with the ivory-on-ivory sound of punji counters in the senyo game. More threatened momentary avalanche off the precarious slopes. A cautious man. Tain walked. He led the roan gelding. His mule's tether he had knotted to the roan's saddle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">An end to the shale walk came. Tain breathed deeply, relieved. His muscles ached with the strain of maintaining his footing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A flint-tipped arrow shaved the gray over his right ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The black longsword leapt into his right hand, the equally dark shortsword into his left. He vanished among the rocks before the bowstring's echoes died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not a bird chirped. Not one chipmunk scurried across the slope, pursuing the arcane business of that gentle breed. High above, one lone eagle floated majestically against an intense blue backdrop of cloudless sky. Its shadow skittered down the ragged mountainside like some frenetic daytime ghost. The only scent on the breeze was that of old and brittle stone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A man's scream butchered the stillness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain wiped his shortsword on his victim's greasy furs. The dark blade's polish appeared oily. It glinted sullen indigoes and purples when the sun hit right.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Similar blades had taught half a world the meaning of fear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A voice called a name. Another responded with an apparent "Shut up!" Tain couldn't be sure. The languages of the mountain tribes were mysteries to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He remained kneeling, allowing trained senses to roam. A fly landed on the dead man's face. It made nervous patrols in ever-smaller circles till it started exploring the corpse's mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain moved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next one died without a sound. The third celebrated his passing by plunging downhill in a clatter of pebbles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain knelt again, waiting. There were two more. One wore an aura of Power. A shaman. He might prove difficult.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Another shadow fluttered across the mountainside. Tain smiled thinly. Death's daughters were clinging to her skirts today.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The vulture circled warily, not dropping lower till a dozen sisters had joined its grim pavane.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain took a jar from his travel pouch, spooned part of its contents with two fingers. A cinnamonlike smell sweetened the air briefly, to be pursued by an odor as foul as death. He rubbed his hands till they were thoroughly greased. Then he exchanged the jar for a small silver box containing what appeared to be dried peas. He rolled one pea round his palm, stared at it intently. Then he boxed his hands, concentrated on the shaman, and sighed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The vultures dropped lower. A dog crept onto the trail below, slunk to the corpse there. It sniffed, barked tentatively, then whined. It was a mangy auburn bitch with teats stretched by the suckling of pups.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain breathed gently between his thumbs. A pale cerulean light leaked between his fingers. Its blue quickly grew as intense as that of the topless sky. The glow penetrated his flesh, limning his finger bones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain gasped, opened his hands. A blinding blue ball drifted away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wiped his palms on straggles of mountain grass, followed up with a dirt wash. He would need firm grips on his swords.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His gaze never left the bobbing blue ball, nor did his thoughts abandon the shaman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ball drifted into a stand of odd, conical rocks. They had a crude, monumental look.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A man started screaming. Tain took up his blades.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The screams were those of a beast in torment. They went on and on and on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain stepped up onto a boulder, looked down. The shaman writhed below him. The blue ball finished consuming his right forearm. It started on the flesh above his elbow. A scabby, wild-haired youth beat the flame with a tattered blanket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's shadow fell across the shaman. The boy looked up into brown eyes that had never learned pity. Terror drained his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A black viper's tongue flicked once, surely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain hesitated before he finished the shaman. The wild wizard wouldn't have shown him the same mercy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He broke each of the shaman's fetishes. A skull on a lance he saved and planted like a grave marker. The witch-doctor's people couldn't misapprehend that message.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Time had silvered Tain's temples, but he remained a man to beware.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Once he had been an Aspirant. For a decade he had been dedicated to the study of the Power. The Tervola, the sorcerer-lords of his homeland, to whose peerage he had aspired, had proclaimed him a Candidate at three. But he had never shown the cold will necessary, nor had he developed the inalterable discipline needed, to attain Select status. He had recognized, faced, and accepted his shortcomings. Unlike so many others, he had learned to live with the knowledge that he couldn't become one of his motherland's masters.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had become one of her soldiers instead, and his Aspirant training had served him well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thirty years with the legions. And all he had brought away was a superbly trained gelding, a cranky mule, knowledge, and his arms and armor. And his memories. The golden markings on the breastplate in his mule packs declared him a leading centurion of the Demon Guard, and proclaimed the many honors he had won.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But a wild western sorcerer had murdered the Demon Prince. The Guard had no body to protect. Tain had no one to command.... And now the Tervola warred among themselves, with the throne of the Dread Empire as prize.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Never before had legion fought legion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had departed. He was weary of the soldier's life. He had seen too many wars, too many battles, too many pairs of lifeless eyes staring up with "Why?" reflected in their dead pupils. He had done too many evils without questioning, without receiving justification. His limit had come when Shinsan had turned upon herself like a rabid bitch able to find no other victim.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He couldn't be party to the motherland's self-immolation. He couldn't bear consecrated blades against men with whom he had shared honorable fields.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had deserted rather than do so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were many honors upon his breastplate. In thirty years he had done many dread and dire deeds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The soldiers of Shinsan were unacquainted with defeat. They were the world's best, invincible, pitiless, and continuously employed. They were feared far beyond the lands where their boots had trod and their drums had beaten their battle signals.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain hoped to begin his new life in a land unfamiliar with that fear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He continued into the mountains.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One by one. Death's daughters descended to the feast.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218277" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218279" class="calibre8"></a>II <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">One ivory candle illuminated a featureless cell. A man in black faced it. He sat in the lotus position on a barren granite floor. Behind a panther mask of hammered gold his eyes remained closed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wasn't sleeping. He was listening with a hearing familiar only to masters of the Power.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had been doing this for months, alternating with a fellow Aspirant. He had begun to grow bored.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was Tervola Candidate Kai Ling. He was pursuing an assignment which could hasten his elevation to Select. He had been fighting for the promotion for decades, never swerving in his determination to seize what seemed forever beyond his grasp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His body jerked, then settled into a tense lean. Little temblors stirred his extremities.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"West," he murmured. "Far, far to the west." The part of him that listened extended itself, analyzed, fixed a location.</div>
<div class="paragraph">An hour passed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally, Kai Ling rose. He donned a black cape which hung beside the nearly invisible door. He smiled thinly behind his mask. Poor Chong. Chong wouldn't know which of them had won till he arrived for his turn on watch.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216232" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36216234" class="calibre8"></a>III <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Tain rested, observing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It seemed a calm and peaceful hamlet in a calm and peaceful land. A dozen rude houses crowded an earthen track which meandered on across green swales toward a distant watchtower. The squat stronghold could be discerned only from the highest hilltops Solitary shepherds' steads lay sprinkled across the countryside, their numbers proclaiming the base for the regional economy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mountains Tain had crossed sheltered the land from the east. The ivory teeth of another range glimmered above the haze to the north. Tain grazed his animals and wondered if this might be the land he sought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sat on a hillside studying it. He was in no hurry to penetrate it. Masterless now, with no fixed destination, he felt no need to rush. Too, he was reluctant. Human contact meant finalization of the decision he had reached months ago, in Shinsan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Intellectually he knew that it was too late, but his heart kept saying that he could still change his mind. It would take the imminent encounter to sever his heartlines home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was ...scary... this being on his own.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As a soldier he had often operated alone. But then he had been ordered to go, to do, and always he had had his legion or the Guard waiting. His legion had been home and family. Though the centurion was the keystone of the army, his father-Tervola chose his companions, and made most of his decisions and did most of his thinking for him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had wrestled with himself for a year before abandoning the Demon Guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A tiny smile tugged his lips. All those thousands who wept on hearing the distant mutter of drumswhat would they think, learning that soldiers of the Dread Empire suffered fears and uncertainties too?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You may as well come out." he called gently. A boy was watching him from the brushy brookside down to his right. "I'm not going anywhere for hours."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain hoped he had chosen the right language. He wasn't sure where he had exited the Dragon's Teeth. The peaks to the north, he reasoned, should be the Kratchnodians. That meant he should be in the part of Shara butting against East Heatherland. The nomadic Sharans didn't build homes and herd sheep, so these people should be immigrants from the west. They should speak Iwa Skolovdan.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was one of four western tongues he had mastered when the Demon Prince had looked westward, anticipating Shinsan's expansion thither.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I haven't eaten a shepherd in years." An unattended flock had betrayed the boy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lad left cover fearfully, warily, but with a show of bravado. He carried a ready sling in his right hand. He had well-kempt blond hair, pageboy trimmed, and huge blue eyes. He looked about eight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain cautioned himself: the child was no legion entry embarking upon the years of education, training, and discipline which gradually molded a soldier of Shinsan. He was a westerner, a genuine child, as free as a wild dog and probably as unpredictable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hello, shepherd. My name is Tain. What town would that be?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hello." The boy moved several steps closer. He eyed the gelding uncertainly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Watch the mule. She's the mean one."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You talk funny. Where did you come from? Your skin is funny, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain grinned. He saw things in reverse. But this was a land of round-eyes. He would be the stranger, the guest. He would have to remember, or suffer a cruel passage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Arrogant basic assumptions were drilled into the soldiers of Shinsan. Remaining humble under stress might be difficult.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I came from the east."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Over the mountains?" Disbelief flavored the boy's tone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But the hill people....They rob and kill everybody. Papa said." He edged closer, fascinated by Tain's swords.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sometimes their luck isn't good. Don't you have a name?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban." The boy relented reluctantly. "Steban Kleckla. Are those swords? Real swords?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Longsword and shortsword. I used to be a soldier." He winced. It hurt to let go of his past.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My Uncle Mikla has a sword. He was a soldier. He went all the way to Hellin Daimiel. That was in the El Murid Wars. He was a hero."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Really? I'll have to meet your uncle." "Were you a hero when you were a soldier? Did you see any wars?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A few. They weren't much fun, Steban." How could he explain to a boy from this remote land, when all his knowledge was second-hand, through an uncle whose tales had grown with the years?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But you get to go places and see things." "Places you don't want to go, to see things you don't want to see."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy backed a step away. "I'm going to be a soldier," he declared. His lower lip protruded in a stubborn pout.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Wrong tack. Tain thought. Too intense. Too bitter.. "Where's your dog? I thought shepherds always had dogs." "She died."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see. I'm sorry. Can you tell me the name of the village? I don't know where I am."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wtoctalisz."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wtoctalisz." Tain's tongue stumbled over the unfamiliar syllables. He grinned. Steban grinned back. He edged closer, eying Tain's swords. "Can I see?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry. No. It's an oath. I can't draw them unless I mean to kill." Would the boy understand if he tried to explain consecrated blades? "Oh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are there fish in the creek?" "What? Sure. Trout."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain rose. "Let's see if we can catch lunch." Steban's eyes grew larger. "Gosh! You're as big as Grimnir." Tain chuckled. He had been the runt of the Demon Guard. "Who's Grimnir?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy's face darkened. "A man. From the Tower. What about your horse?" "He'll stay."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The roan would do what was expected of him amidst sorcerer's conflicts that made spring storms seem as inconsequential as a child's temper tantrum. And the mule wouldn't stray from the gelding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban was speechless after Tain took the three-pounder with a casual hand-flick, bear fashion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The old soldier was fast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You make a fire. I'll clean him." Tain glowed at Steban's response. It took mighty deeds to win notice in the Dread Empire. He fought a temptation to show off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In that there were perils. He might build a falsely founded, over-optimistic self-appraisal. And a potential enemy might get the measure of his abilities.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So he cooked trout, seasoning it with a pinch of spice from the trade goods in his mule packs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gosh, this's good." As Steban relaxed he became ever more the chatterbox. He had asked a hundred questions already and seldom had he given Tain a chance to answer. "Better than Ma or Shirl ever made."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain glowed again. His field cooking was a point of pride. "Who's Shirl?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She was my sister." "Was?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's gone now." There was a hard finality to Steban's response. It implied death, not absence.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218741" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218743" class="calibre8"></a>IV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Steban herded the sheep homeward. Tain followed, stepping carefully. The roan paced him, occasionally cropping grass, keeping an eye on the mule. For the first time Tain felt at ease with his decision to leave home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was unlikely that this country would become his new home, but he liked its people already, as he saw them reflected in Steban Kleckla. He and the boy were friends already.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban jerked to a stop. His staff fell as he flung a hand to his mouth. The color drained from his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That Aspirant's sense-feel for danger tingled Tain's scalp. In thirty years it had never been wrong. With the care of a man avoiding a cobra, he turned to follow Steban's gaze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A horse and rider stood silhouetted atop a nearby hill, looking like a black paper cutout. Tain could discern little in the dying light. The rider seemed to have horns.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain hissed. The roan trotted to his side. He leaned against his saddle, where his weapons hung.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rider moved out, descending the hill's far side. Steban started the sheep moving at a faster pace. He remained silent till the Kleckla stead came into view.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who was that?" Tain hazarded a second time, when he reckoned the proximity of lights and parents would rejuvenate the boy's nerve. "Who?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That rider. On the hill. You seemed frightened." "Ain't scared of nothing. I killed a wolf last week." He was evading. This was a tale twice told already, and growing fast. First time Steban had bragged about having driven the predator away. Then he had claimed to have broken the beast's shoulder with a stone from his sling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I misunderstood. I'm sorry. Still, there was a rider. And you seemed to know him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lights of Steban's home drew nearer. Boy and sheep increased their pace again. They were late.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban had been too busy wheedling stories from his new friend to watch the time closely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban? That you, boy?" A lantern bobbed toward them. The man carrying it obviously was Steban's father. Same eyes. Same hair. But worry had etched his forehead with deep lines. In his left hand he bore a wicked oaken quarterstaff.</div>
<div class="paragraph">An equally concerned woman walked beside him. Once. Tain suspected, she had been beautiful. In a round-eye sort of way. Doubtlessly, life here quickly made crones of girls. "Ma. Papa. This's my new friend. His name is Tain. He used to be a soldier. Like Uncle Mikla. He came across the mountains. He caught a fish with his hands and his horse can do tricks, but his mule will bite you if you get too close to her. I told him he should come for supper."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain inclined his head. "Freeman Kleckla. Freelady. The grace of heaven descend." He didn't know an appropriately formal Iwa Skolovdan greeting. His effort sounded decidedly odd in translation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Man and wife considered him without warmth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Caydarman watched us," Steban added. He started coaxing the sheep into pens.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The elder Kleckla scanned the surrounding darkness. "An evil day when we catch their eye. Welcome, then. Stranger. We can't offer much but refuge from the night."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you. Freeman. I'll pay, that your resources be not depleted without chance of replacement."</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a stiffness about Kleckla which made Tain feel the need to distance with formality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is the Zemstvi, Stranger. Titles, even Freeman and Free-lady, are meaningless here. They belong to tamed and ordered lands, to Iwa Skolovda and the Home Counties. Call me Toma. My wife is Rula. Come. I'll show you where to bed your animals."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"As you will.. .Toma." He bowed slightly to the woman. "Rula." She frowned slightly, as if unsure how to respond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This would be harder than he had anticipated. At home everyone had positions and titles and there were complicated, almost ritualized protocols and honorifics to be exchanged on every occasion of personal contact. "They'll need no fodder. They grazed all afternoon."</div>
<div class="paragraph">One bony milk cow occupied Kleckla's rude barn. She wasn't pleased by Tain's mule. The mule didn't deign to acknowledge her existence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma had no other stock, save his sheep. But he wasn't poor. Possessing cow and flock, he was richer than most men. Richer, in some ways, than Tain, whose fortune was in metal of changeable value and a few pounds of rare spice. Which would bring more in the marketplace of the heart?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You'll have to sleep out here," Toma informed him. "There's no room... ."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain recognized the fear-lie. "I understand." He had been puzzling the word zemstvi, which seemed to share roots with frontier and wilderness. Now he thought he understood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you a new Caydarman?" Toma blurted. He became contrite immediately. "Forget that. Tell me about the man you saw."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Because Toma was so intent, Tain cut off all exterior distractions and carefully reconstructed the moment in the manner he had been taught. A good scout remembered every detail. "Big man. On a big horse, painted, shaggy. Man bearded. With horns."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Damned Torfin." Toma subliminated anger by scattering hay.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He didn't have horns. That was his helmet." There was a lot to learn. Tain thought. This was an odd land not like the quiet, mercantile Iwa Skolovda he had studied at home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He considered the little barn. Its builders had possessed no great skill. He doubted that it was two years old, yet it was coming apart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Might as well go eat. Isn't much. Boiled mutton with cabbage and leeks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. Mutton. I was hoping." Responding to Toma's surprise. "Mutton is rare at home. Only the rich eat it. We common soldiers made do with grain and pork. Mostly with grain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Home? Where would that be?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"East. Beyond the Dragon's Teeth."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma considered the evasion. "We'd better get inside. Rula gets impatient."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go ahead. I have a couple of things to do. Don't wait on me. I'll make do with scraps or leftovers."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma eyed him, started to speak, changed his mind. "As you will."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Once Toma departed. Tain pursued the Soldier's Evening Ritual, clearing his heart of the day's burdens. He observed the abbreviated Battlefield Ritual rather than the hour of meditation and exercise he pursued under peaceful circumstances. Later he would do it right.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He started for the house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His neck prickled. He stopped, turned slowly, reached out with an Aspirant's senses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A man wearing a horned helmet was watching the stead from the grove surrounding the Kleckla's spring. He didn't see Tain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain considered, shrugged. It wasn't his problem. He would tell Toma when they were alone. Let the Freeman decide what ought to be done.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218944" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36218946" class="calibre8"></a>V <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The sun was a diameter above the horizon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain released the mule and roan to pasture. He glanced round at the verdant hills. "Beautiful country." he murmured, and wondered what the rest of his journey would bring. He ambled a ways toward the house. Rula was starting breakfast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">These people rose late and started slowly. Already he had performed his Morning Ritual, seen to his travel gear and personal ablutions, and had examined the tracks round the spring. Then he had joined Toma when his host had come to check the sheep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma had first shown relief, then increased concern. He remained steadfastly close-mouthed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain restrained his curiosity. Soldiers learned not to ask questions. "Good morning, Steban."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy stood in the door of the sod house, rubbing sleep from his eyes. "Morning. Tain. Ma's cooking oats."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A treat," Toma explained. "We get a little honeycomb with it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. You keep bees?" He hadn't seen any hives. "I had a friend who kept bees. ..." He dropped it, prefering not to remember. Kai Ling had been like a brother. They had been Aspirants together. But Ling hadn't been able to believe he hadn't the talent to become Tervola. He was still trying to climb an unscalable height.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wild honey," Toma said. "The hill people gather it and trade it to us for workable iron."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see." Tain regarded the Kleckla home for the second time that morning. He wasn't impressed. It was a sod structure with an interior just four paces by six. Its construction matched the barn's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had gotten better workmanship out of legion probationaries during their first field exercises.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A second, permanent home was under construction nearby. A more ambitious project, every timber proclaimed it a dream house. Last night, after supper, Toma had grown starry-eyed and loquacious while discussing it. It was symbolic of the Grail he had pursued into the Zemstvi.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Its construction was as unskilled as that of the barn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula's eyes had tightened with silent pain while her husband penetrated ever more deeply the shifting paths of his dreams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma had been an accountant for the Perchev syndicate in Iwa Skolovda, a tormented, dreamless man using numbers to describe the movements of furs, wool, wheat, and metal billets. His days had been long and tedious. During summer, when the barges and caravans moved, he had been permitted no holidays.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That had been before he had been stricken by the cunning infection, the wild hope, the pale dream of the Zemstvi, here expressed rudely, yet in a way that said that a man had tried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula's face said the old life had been emotional hell, but their apartment had remained warm and the roof hadn't leaked. Life had been predictable and secure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were philosophies at war in the Kleckla home, though hers lay mute before the other's traditional right. Accusing in silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma was Rula's husband. She had had to come to the Zemstvi as the bondservant of his dreams. Or nightmares.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The magic of numbers had shattered the locks on the doors of Toma's soul. It had let the dream light come creeping in. Freedom, the intellectual chimera pursued by most of his neighbors, meant nothing to Kleckla. His neighbors had chosen the hazards of colonizing Shara because of the certainties of Crown protection.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma, though, burned with the absolute conviction of a balanced equation. Numbers proved it impossible for a sheep-herding, wool-producing community not to prosper in these benign rolling hills.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What Tain saw, and what Toma couldn't recognize, was that numbers wore no faces. Or were too simplistic. They couldn't account the human factors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The failure had begun with Toma. He had ignored his own ignorance of the skills needed to survive on a frontier. Shara was no-man's-land. Iwa Skolovda had claimed it for centuries, but never had imposed its suzerainty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shara abounded with perils unknown to a city-born clerk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Tomas. sadly, often ended up as sacrifices to the Zemstvi.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The egg of disaster shared the nest of his dream, and who could say which had been insinuated by the cowbird of Fate?</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were no numbers by which to calculate ignorance, raiders, wolves, or heart-changes aborting vows politicians had sworn in perpetuity. The ciphers for disease and foul weather hadn't yet been enumerated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma's ignorance of essential craft blazed out all over his homestead. And the handful of immigrants who had teamed their dreams with his and had helped, had had no more knowledge or skill. They, too, had been hungry scriveners and number-mongers, swayed by a wild-eyed false prophet innocent of the realities of opening a new land. All but black sheep Mikla, who had come east to keep Toma from being devoured by his own fuzzy-headedness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula-thinking had prevailed amongst most of Toma's disciples. They had admitted defeat and ventured west again, along paths littered with the parched bones of fleeting hope Toma was stubborn. Toma persisted. Toma's bones would lie beside those of his dreams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All this Tain knew when he said. "If you won't let me pay, then at least let me help with the new house." Toma regarded him with eyes of iron. "I learned construction in the army." Toma's eyes tightened. He was a proud man. Tain had dealt with stiff-necked superiors fur ages He pursued his offer without showing a hint of criticism. And soon Toma relaxed, responded. "Take a look after breakfast." he suggested. "See what you think. I've been having trouble since Mikla left." "I'd wondered about that," Tain admitted. "Steban gave the impression your brother was living here. I didn't want to pry."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He walked out." Toma stamped toward the house angrily. He calmed himself before they entered. "My fault. I guess. It was a petty argument. The sheep business hasn't been as good as we expected. He wanted to pick up a little extra trading knives and arrowheads to the tribes. They pay in furs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the Baron banned that when he came here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain didn't respond. Toma shrugged irritably, started back outside. He stopped suddenly, turned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's Rula's brother." Softly, "And that wasn't true. I made him leave. Because I caught him with some arrowheads. I was afraid." He turned again. "Toma. Wait." Tain spoke softly. "I won't mention it." Relief flashed across Kleckla's face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And you should know. The man with the horns. The ... Caydarman? He spent part of the night watching the house from the grove."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma didn't respond. He seemed distraught. He remained silent throughout breakfast. The visual cues indicated a state of extreme anxiety. He regained his good humor only after he and Tain had worked on the new house for hours, and then his chatte was inconsequential. He wouldn't open up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain asked no questions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Neither Toma nor Rula mentioned his departure. Toma soured with each building suggestion, then brightened once it had been implemented. Day's end found less of the structure standing, yet the improvement in what remained had Toma bubbling.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219134" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36219137" class="calibre8"></a>VI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Tain accidentally jostled Rula at the hearth. "Excuse me." Then. "Can I help? Cooking is my hobby."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The woman regarded him oddly. She saw a big man, muscled and corded, who moved like a tiger, who gave an impression of massive strength kept under constant constraint. His skin was tracked by a hundred scars. There wasn't an ounce of softness in or on him. Yet his fingers were deft, his touch delicate as he took her knife and pan. "You don't mind?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mind? You're joking. Two years I haven't had a minute's rest, and you want to know if I mind?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. There's a secret to that, having too much work and not enough time. It's in the organization, and in putting yourself into the right state of mind before you start. Most people scatter themselves. They try everything at once."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll be damned." Toma, who had been carrying water to the sheep pens, paused to watch over Tain's shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Turning the browning mutton. Tain said. "I love to cook. This is a chance for me to show off." He tapped a ghost of spice from an envelope. "Rula, if we brown the vegetables instead of stewing them...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll be damned." Toma said again. He settled to the floor to watch. He pulled a jar of beer to his side.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One should strive to achieve the widest possible competence," Tain remarked. "One may never need a skill, but, again, one can't know the future. Tomorrow holds ambushes for the mightiest necromancers. A new skill is another hedge against Fate's whimsey. What happens when a soldier loses a limb here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They become beggars," Rula replied. "Toma, remember how it was right after the war? You couldn't walk a block...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My point made for me. I could become a cook. Or an interpreter. Or a smith, or an armorer, according to my handicap. In that way I was well-served. Where's Steban? I asked him to pick some mushrooms. They'll add the final touch. But don't expect miracles. I've never tried this with mutton.... Rula? What is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma had bounced up and run outside. She was following him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's Steban. He's worried about Steban."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can you tell me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Caydarmen...." She went blank, losing the animation she had begun showing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who are they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Baron Caydar's men." She would say no more. She just leaned against the door frame and stared into the dusk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma returned a moment later. "It's all right. He's coming. Must have spent the day with the Kosku boy. I see his flock, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Toma..." Fear tinged Rula's voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The boy can choose his friends, woman. I'm not so weak that I'll make my children avoid their friends because of my fears."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain stirred vegetables and listened, trying to fathom the situation. Toma was scared. The timbre of fear inundated his voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He and Rula dropped the subject as if pursuing it might bring some dread upon them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban had collected the right mushrooms. That had worried Tain. He never quite trusted anyone who wasn't legion-trained. "Good, Steban. I think we'll all like this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're cooking?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I won't poison you. The fish was good, wasn't it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban seemed unsure. He turned to his father. "Wes said they were fined five sheep, five goats, and ten geese. He said his Dad said he's not going to pay."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Dread and worry overcame his parents' faces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Toma, there'll be trouble." Rula's hands fluttered like nervous doves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They can't afford that," Toma replied. 'They wouldn't make it through winter."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go talk to him. Ask the neighbors to chip in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's got to end. Rula." He turned to Tain. "The Crown sent Baron Caydar to protect us from the tribes. We had less trouble when we weren't protected."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Toma!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The tribes don't bother anyone, Rula. They never did. Hywel goes out of his way to avoid trouble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Just because those royal busybodies got themselves massacred.... They asked for it, trying to make Hywel and Stojan bend the knee."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Toma, they'll fine us too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They have to hear me first."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They know everything. People tell on each other. You know...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because they're scared. Rula, if the bandits keep pushing, we won't care if we're afraid."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain delivered the meal to table. He asked, "Who are the Caydarmen? The one I saw was no Iwa Skolovdan."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mercenaries." Toma spat. "Crown wouldn't let Caydar bring regulars. He recruited Trolledyngjans who escaped when the Pretender overthrew the Old House up there. They're a gang of bandits."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see." The problem was taking shape. Baron Caydar would be, no doubt, a political exile thrust into an impossible position by his enemies. His assignment here would be calculated to destroy him. And what matter that a few inconsequential colonists suffered?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's motherland was called Dread Empire by its foes. With cause. The Tervola did as they pleased, where and when they pleased, by virtue of sorcery and legions unacquainted with defeat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shinsan did have its politics and politicians. But never did they treat citizens with contempt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had studied the strange ways of the west, but he would need time to really grasp their actuality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After supper he helped Toma haul more water. Toma remarked, "That's the finest eating I've had in years."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you. I enjoyed preparing it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What I wanted to say. I'd appreciate it if you didn't anymore." Tain considered. Toma sounded as though he expected to share his company for a while.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula. She shouldn't have too much time to worry."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I appreciate the help you're giving me...." "You could save a lot of water-hauling with a windmill." "I know. But nobody around here can build one. Anyway. I couldn't pay much. Maybe a share on the sheep. If you'd stay...." Tain faced the east. The sunset had painted the mountains the color of blood. He hoped that was no omen. But he feared that legionnaires were dying at the hands of legionnaires even now. "All right. For a while. But I'll have to move on soon."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wondered if he could outrun his past. A friend had told him that a man carried his pain like a tortoise carried his shell. Tain suspected the analogy might be more apt than intended. Men not only carried their painshells, they retreated into them if emotionally threatened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We need you. You can see that. I've been too stubborn to admit it till now...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stubbornness is a virtue, properly harnessed. Just don't be stubborn against learning."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban carried water with them, and seemed impressed. Later, he said, "Tell us about the wars you were in, Tain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula scowled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They weren't much. Bloody, sordid little things, Steban. Less fun than sheep-shearing time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on. Tain. You're always saying things like that." "Mikla made a glory tale of it," Rula said. "You'd think... Well.... That there wasn't any better life."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe that was true for Mikla. But the El Murid Wars were long ago and far away, and, I expect, he was very young. He remembers the good times, and sees only the dullness in today." "Maybe. He shouldn't fill Steban's head with his nonsense." So Tain merely wove a tale of cities he had seen, describing strange dress and customs. Rula, he noted, enjoyed it as much as her son.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Later still, after his evening ritual, he spent several hours familiarizing himself with the countryside. A soldier's habits died hard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Twice he spied roving Caydarmen. Neither noticed him. Next morning he rose early and took the gelding for a run over the same ground.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219392" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36219395" class="calibre8"></a>VII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Rula visited Tain's makeshift forge the third afternoon. Bringing a jar of chill spring water was her excuse. "You've been hammering for hours, Tain. You'd better drink something."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He smiled as he laid his hammer aside. "Thank you." He accepted the jar, though he wasn't yet thirsty. He was accustomed to enduring long, baking hours in his armor. He sipped while he waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had something on her mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want to thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"For what you're doing. For what you've done for Toma. And me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I haven't done much."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've shown Toma that a man can be proud without being pig-headed. When he's wrong. But maybe you don't see it. Tain. I've lived with that man for eighteen years. I know him too well."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see." He touched her hand lightly, recognizing a long and emotionally difficult speech from a woman accustomed to keeping her own counsel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't know how to help her, though. An unmarried soldier's life hadn't prepared him. Not for a woman who moved him more than should be, for reasons he couldn't comprehend. A part of him said that women were people too, and should respond the same as men, but another part saw them as aliens, mysterious, perhaps even creatures of dread. "If I have done good, I have brought honor to the house."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He chuckled at his own ineptitude. Iwa Skolovdan just didn't have the necessary range of tonal nuance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've given me hope for the first time since Shirl...." she blurted. "I mean, I can see where we're getting somewhere now. I can see Toma seeing it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, I never wanted to come to the Zemstvi. I hate it. I hated it before we left home. Maybe I hated it so much that I made it impossible for Toma to succeed. I drove Shirl away...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. I could see it. But don't hate yourself for being what you are."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"His dreams were dying, Tain. And I wouldn't give him anything to replace them. And I have to hate myself for that. But now he's coming alive again. He doesn't have to go on being stubborn, just to show me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't hate anybody, Rula. It's contagious. You end up hating everything, and everybody hates you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't ever like the Zemstvi. But I love Toma. And with you here, like a rock, he's becoming more like the boy I married. He's started to find his courage again. And his hope. That gives me hope. And that's why I wanted to thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A rock?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. You're there. You don't criticize, you don't argue, you don't judge, you don't fear. You know. You make things possible.... Oh, I don't know how to say what I want. I think the fear is the biggest thing. It doesn't control us anymore."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think it's all my fault. Rula. You've done your part." He was growing unsettled. Even embarrassed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She touched his arm. "You're strong, Tain. So strong and sure. My brother Mikla.... He was sure, but not always strong. He fought with Toma all the time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain glanced south across the green hills. Toma had gone to the village in hopes of obtaining metal that could be used in the windmill Tain was going to build. He had been gone for hours.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A tiny silhouette topped a distant rise. Tain sighed in a mixture of disappointment and relief. He was saved having to face the feelings Rula was stirring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma loved the windmill. He wanted to let the house ride till it was finished. Tain had suggested that they might, with a little ingenuity, provide running water. Rula would like that. It was a luxury only lords and merchant princes enjoyed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula followed his gaze. Embarrassment overtook her. Tain yielded the jar and watched her flee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Soon Toma called, "I got it, Tain! Bryon had an old wagon. He sold me enough to do the whole thing." He rushed to the forge, unburdened himself of a pack filled with rusty iron.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain examined the haul. "Good. More than enough for the bushings. You keep them greased, the windmill will last a lifetime."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma's boyish grin faded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What happened? You were gone a long time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on in the house. Share a jar of beer with me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain put his tools away and followed Toma. Glancing eastward, he saw the white stain of Steban's flock dribbling down a distant slope, heading home. Beyond Steban, a little south, stood the grotesque rock formation locals called the Toad. The Sharans believed it the home of a malignant god.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma passed the beer. "The Caydarmen visited Kosku again. He wouldn't give them the animals."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain still didn't understand. He said nothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They won't stand for it," Rula said. "There'll be trouble."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma shrugged. "There'll always be trouble. Comes of being alive." He pretended a philosophical nonchalance. Tain read the fear he was hiding. "They'll probably come tonight...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've been drinking," Rula snapped. "You're not going to...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula, it's got to stop. Somebody has to show them the limits. We've reached ours. Kosku has taken up the mantle. The rest of us can't...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, talk to him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain studied them, sensed them. Their fear made the house stink. He said nothing. After meeting her eyes briefly, he handed Toma the beer and ignored her appeal. He returned to his forge, dissipated his energies pumping the bellows and hammering cherry iron. He didn't dare insinuate himself into their argument. It had to remain theirs alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yet he couldn't stop thinking, couldn't stop feeling. He hammered harder, driven by a taint of anger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His very presence had altered Toma. Rula had said as much The man wouldn't have considered supporting this Kosku otherwise. Simply by having entered the man's life he was forcing Toma to prove something. To himself? Or to Rula?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain hammered till the hills rang. Neutral as he had tried to remain, he had become heir to a responsibility. Toma had to be shielded from the consequences of artificial bravado.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The hammer's thunder stammered. "Steban? Home so early?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's almost dark."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh. I lost track of time." He glanced at his handiwork. He had come near finishing while roaming his own mind. "What is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will you teach me to be a soldier?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain drove the tongs into the coals as if their mound contained the heart of an enemy. "I don't think so. Your mother...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She won't care. She's always telling me to learn something."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soldiering isn't what she has in mind. She means your father's lessons."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, writing and ciphers are boring. And what good did they do my Dad? Anyway, he's only teaching me because Mother makes him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">What kind of world did Rula live in, there behind the mask of her face? Tain wondered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It couldn't be a happy world. It had suffered the deaths of too many hopes. Time had beaten her down. She had become an automaton getting through each day with the least fuss possible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Boring, but important. What good a soldier who can't read or write? All he can do is carry a spear."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can you read?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Six languages. Every soldier in my army learns at least two. To become a soldier in my country is like becoming a priest in yours, Steban."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula, he thought. Why do I find you unique when you're just one of a million identical sisters scattered through the feudal west? The entire sub-continent lay prostrate beneath the heel of a grinding despair, a ponderous changelessness. It was a tinder-dry philosophical forest. The weakest spark flung off by a hope-bearing messiah would send it up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A soldier's training isn't just learning to use a sword, Steban. It's learning a way of life. I could teach you to fence, but you'd never become a master. Not till you learned the discipline, the way of thinking and living you need to...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Boy, you going to jabber all night? Get those sheep in the pens."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma leaned against the doorframe of the house. A jar of beer hung from his hand. Tain sensed the random anger rushing around inside him. It would be as unpredictable as summer lightning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take care of the sheep, Steban. I'll help water them later."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He cleaned up his forge, then himself, then carried water till Rula called them to supper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Anger hung over the meal like a cloying fog rolling in off a noisome marsh. Tain was its focus.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula wanted him to control Toma. Toma wanted his support. And Steban wanted a magical access to the heroic world his uncle had created from the bloodies most ineptly fought, and most pointless war of recent memory Tain ate in silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Afterward, he said, "I've nearly finished the bushings and shaft bearings. We can start the tower tomorrow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain shrugged. The man's mood would have to take care of itself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced at Rula. The appeal remained in her eyes. He rose, obtained a jar of beer, broke the seal, sipped. "A toast to the windmill." He passed it to Toma.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban, let's get the rest of that water."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A breeze had come up during supper. Cool and moist, it promised rain. Swift clouds were racing toward the mountains, obscuring the stars. Maybe, Tain thought, the weather would give Rula what he could not.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mom and Dad are mad at each other, aren't they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think so."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because of the Koskus?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes." The walk from the spring seemed to grow longer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dad's afraid. Of the Caydarmen." Steban sounded disappointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"With good reason, I imagine." Tain hadn't met any of the Baron's mercenaries. He hadn't met any of the neighbors, either. None had come calling He hadn't done any visiting during his reconnaisances.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soldiers aren't ever afraid."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain chuckled. "Wrong, Steban. Soldiers are always afraid. We just learn to handle fear. Your Dad didn't have to learn when you lived in the city. He's trying to catch up now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd show those Caydarmen. Like I showed that wolf."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There was only one wolf, Steban. There're a lot of Caydarmen."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Only seven. And the Witch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Seven? And a witch?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure. Torfin. Bodel. Grimnir. Olag. I don't remember the others."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about this witch? Who's she?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban wouldn't answer for a while. Then, "She tells them what to do. Dad says the Baron was all right till she went to the Tower."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah." So. Another fragment of puzzle. Who would have thought this quiet green land, so sparsely settled, could be so taut and mysterious?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain tried pumping Steban, but the boy clammed up about the Baron.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you think Pa's a coward, Tain?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. He came to the Zemstvi. It takes courage for a man to leave everything just on the chance he might make a better life someplace else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban stopped and stared at him. There had been a lot of emotion in his voice. "Like you did?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. Like I did. I thought about it a lone time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This ought to be enough water. Let's go back to the house."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced at the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Going to rain," he said as they went inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uhm," Toma grunted. He finished one jar and started another. Tain smiled thinly. Kleckla wouldn't be going out tonight. He turned his smile on Rula.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She smiled back. "Maybe you'd better sleep here. The barn leaks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll be all right. I patched it some yesterday morning."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you ever sleep?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Old habits die hard. Well, the sheep are watered. I'm going to turn in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He paused at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He ducked into the night. Misty raindrops kissed his cheeks. A rising wind quarreled with itself in the grove.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He performed the Soldier's Ritual, then lay back on the straw pallet he had fashioned. But sleep wouldn't come.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36254920" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36254922" class="calibre8"></a>VIII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The roan quivered between his knees as they descended the hill. It wasn't because of the wind and cold rain. The animal sensed the excitement and uncertainty of its rider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain guided the roan into a brushy gully, dismounted, told the horse to wait. He moved fifty yards downslope, sat down against a boulder. So still did he remain that he seemed to become one with the stone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Kosku stead looked peaceful to an untrained eye. Just a quiet rural place passing a sleepy night.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But Tain felt the wakefulness there. Someone was watching the night. He could taste their fear and determination.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Caydarmen came an hour later. There were three of them bearing torches. They didn't care who saw them. They came down the hill from behind Tain and passed within fifty yards of him None noticed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Two were big men. The one with the horn helm, on the paint. Tain recognized as the Torfin he had seen before. The second was much larger than the first. The third, riding between them, was a slight, small figure in black.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Witch. Tain knew that before she entered his vision. He had sensed her raw, untrained strength minutes earlier. Now he could feel the dread of her companions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wild adept needed to be feared. She was like an untrained elephant, ignorant of her own strength. And in her potential for misuse of the Power she was more dangerous to herself than to anyone she threatened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain didn't doubt that fear was her primary control over the Baron and his men. She would cajole, pout, and hurt, like a spoiled child....</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was very young. Tain could sense no maturity in her at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The man with the horns dismounted and pounded the Kosku door with the butt of a dagger. "Kosku.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Open in the name of Baron Caydar."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go to Hell."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain almost laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The reply, spoken almost gently, came from the mouth of a man beyond fear. The Caydarmen sensed it too, and seemed bewildered. That was what amused Tain so.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kosku, you've been fined three sheep, three goats, and five geese for talking sedition. We've come to collect."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The thieves bargain now? You were demanding five, five, and ten the other day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Five sheep, five goats, and ten geese, then," Torfin replied, chagrined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Get the hell off my land." "Kosku...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Assessing the voice, Tain identified Torfin as a decent man trapped by circumstance. Torfin didn't want trouble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Produce the animals, Kosku," said the second man. "Or I'll come after them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">This one wasn't a decent sort. His tone shrieked bully and sadist. This one wanted Kosku to resist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come ahead, Grimnir. Come ahead." The cabin door flung open. An older man appeared. He leaned on a long, heavy quarterstaff. "Come to me, you Trolledyngjan dog puke. You sniffer at the skirts of whores."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kosku, Tain decided, was no ex-clerk. He was old, but the hardness of a man of action glimmered through the grey. His muscles were taut and strong. He would know how to handle his staff.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir wasn't inclined to test him immediately. The witch urged her mount forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You don't frighten me, little slut. I know you. I won't appease your greed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her hands rose before her, black-gloved fingers writhing like snakes. Sudden emerald sparks leapt from tip to tip. Kosku laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His staff darted too swiftly for the eye to follow. Its iron-shod tip struck the Witch's horse between the nostrils.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It shrieked, reared. The woman tumbled into the mud. Green sparks zig-zagged over her dark clothing. She spewed curses like a broken oath-sack.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin swung his torch at the old man.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The staff's tip caught him squarely in the forehead. He sagged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kosku, you shouldn't have done that," Grimnir snarled. He dismounted, drew his sword. The old man fled, slammed his door. Grimnir recovered Torfin's torch, tossed it onto the thatch of Kosku's home. He helped the Witch and Torfin mount, then tossed his own torch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain was inclined to aid the old man, but didn't move. He had left his weapons behind in case he encountered this urge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't need weapons to fight and kill, but he suspected, considering Kosku's reaction, that Grimnir was good with a sword. It didn't seem likely that an unarmed man could take him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And there was the Witch, whose self-taught skill he couldn't estimate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had had enough. Despite Grimnir's protests, she started back the way they had come.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain watched them pass. The Witch's eyes jerked his way, as if she were startled, but she saw nothing. She relaxed. Tain listened them over the ridge before moving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The wet thatch didn't burn well, but it burned. Tain strode down, filled a bucket from a sheep trough, tossed water onto the blaze. A half dozen throws finished it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rainfall was picking up. Tain returned to the roan conscious that eyes were watching him go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He swung onto the gelding, whispered. The horse began stalking the Caydarmen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They weren't hurrying. It was two hours before Tain discerned the deeper darkness of the Tower through the rain. His quarry passed inside without his having learned anything. He circled the structure once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The squat, square tower was only slightly taller than it was wide. It was very old, antedating Iwa Skolovda. Tain assumed that it had been erected by Imperial engineers when llkazar had ruled Shara. A watchtower to support patrols in the borderlands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shara had always been a frontier.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Similar structures dotted the west. Ilkazar's advance could be chronicled by their architectural styles.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36255115" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36255117" class="calibre8"></a>IX <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Toma was in a foul mood next morning. Tain avoided him, concentrating on the windmill while Kleckla worked on the house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma was suffering from more than a hangover. Come midmorning he abandoned his tools, donned a jacket and collected is staff. He strode off toward the village.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had hardly vanished when Rula joined Tain. "Thanks for last night," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain spread his hands in a "it was nothing" gesture. "I don't think you had to worry."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing." He averted his gaze shyly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's gone to find out what happened."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know. He feels responsible."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's not responsible for Kosku's sins."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We're all responsible to one another, Rula. His feelings are genuine. My opinion is, he wants to do the right thing for the wrong reasons."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What reasons?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think he wants to prove something. I'm not sure why. Or to whom. Maybe to himself."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just because they blame him. ..." Her gaze snapped up and away, toward the spring. Tain turned slowly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A Caydarman on a painted horse was descending the slope. Torfin?" Today he wore no helmet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh!" Rula gasped. "Toma must have said something yesterday."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain could sense the unreasoning fear in her. It refused to let he Caydarman be anything but evil.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You go inside. I'll handle him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She ran.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain set his tools aside, wiped his hands, ambled toward the spring. The Caydarman had entered the grove. He was watering his mount.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good morning."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Caydarman looked up. "Good morning."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He's young. Tain thought. Nineteen or twenty. But he has scars.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The youth took in Tain's size and catlike movements.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain noted the Caydarman's pale blue eyes and long blond hair, and the strength pent in his rather average-appearing body. He was tall, but not massive like Grimnir.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Torfin Hakesson," the youth offered. "The Baron's man."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain. My father's name I don't know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A slight smile crossed Torfin's lips. "You're new here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just passing through. Kleckla needed help with his house. I have the skills. He asked me to stay on for a while."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin nodded. "You're the man with the big roan? I saw you the other day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain smiled. "And I you. Several times. Why're you so far from home?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My father chose a losing cause. I drifted. The Baron offered me work. I came to the Zemstvi."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've heard that Trolledyngjans are terse. Never have I heard a life so simply sketched."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Much the same. Leaving unhappiness behind, pursuing something that probably doesn't exist."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Baron might take you on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. Our thinking diverges on too many things."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought so myself, once. I still do, in a way. But you don't have many choices when your only talent is swordwork."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A sad truth. Did you want something in particular?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. Just patrolling. Watering the horse. Them." He jerked his head toward the house. "They're well?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good." The youth eyed the stead. "Looks like you've gotten things moving."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Some. Toma needed help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. He hasn't made much headway since Mikla left. Well, good-day, Tain. Till we meet again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good-day, Torfin. And may the grace of heaven guide you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin regarded him with one raised eyebrow as he mounted. "You have an odd way of putting things," he replied. He wheeled and angled off across the hillside. Tain watched till the youth crossed the low ridge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He found Rula hunkered by the cookfire, losing herself in making their noonday meal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What did he want?" she demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To water his horse."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's all?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That and to look at me, I suppose. Why?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's the dangerous one. Grimnir is big and loud and mean. The others are bullies too. But Torfin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">... He's quiet and quick. He once killed three of Stojan's warriors when they tried to steal horses from the Tower corrals."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Has he given you any trouble?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She hesitated. Tain knew she would hide something.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. To hardly anybody. But he's always around. Around and watching. Listening. Then the others come with their fines that aren't anything but excuses to rob people."</div>
<div class="paragraph">So much fear in her. He wanted to hold her, to tell her everything would be all right. "I have to get to work. I should finish the framework today. If Toma remembers to look for lumber, we might start the tank tomorrow." He ducked out before he did anything foolish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't understand. He was Tain, a leading centurion of the Demon Guard. He was a thirty-year veteran. He should be past juvenile temptations. Especially involving a woman of Rula's age and wear....</div>
<div class="paragraph">He worked hard, but it did no good. The feelings, the urges, remained. He kept his eyes averted during lunch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain. ..." she started once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced up. She had turned toward the Tower, her gaze faraway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Afterward, he saddled the roan and led out the mule and took them on a short patrol. Once he spied Torfin in the distance, on a hilltop, watching something beyond. Tain turned and rode a few miles westward, till the Tower loomed ahead. He turned again, for home, following a looping course past the Kosku stead. Someone was repairing the thatch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula was waiting, and highly nervous. "Where have you been?" she demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Exercising the animals. What happened?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing. Oh, nothing. I just hate it when I have to be alone."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry. That was thoughtless."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. Not really. What claim do I have to your time?" She settled down. "I'm just a worrier."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Til wait till Toma's home next time." He unsaddled the roan and began rubbing him down. The mule wandered away, grazing. Rula watched without speaking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was acutely conscious of her gaze. After ten minutes she asked, "Where did you come from. Tain?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Who are you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I came from nowhere and I'm going nowhere, Rula. I'm just an ex-soldier wandering because I don't know anything else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing else? You seem to know something about everything."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've had a lot of years to learn."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tell me about the places you've been. I've never been anywhere but home and the Zemstvi."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain smiled a thin, sad smile. There was that same awe and hunger that he heard from Steban.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I saw Escalon once, before it was destroyed. It was a beautiful country." He described that beauty without revealing his part in its destruction. He worked on the windmill while he reminisced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. I'd better start supper," Rula said later. "Toma's coming. He's got somebody with him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain watched her walk away and again chastised himself for unworthy thoughts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She had been beautiful once, and would be still but for the meanness of her life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma arrived wearing an odd look. Tain feared the man had divined his thoughts. But, "The Caydarmen went after Kosku last night. The old coot actually chased them off."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Heh?" Tain snorted. "Good for him. You going to be busy?" He glanced at the second man. "Or can you help me mount these bearings?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure. In a couple minutes. Tain, this's my brother-in-law."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mikla?" Tain extended his hand. "Good to meet you. I've heard a lot about you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"None of it good, I'm sure." Laughter wrinkled the corners of Mikla's eyes. He was a lean, leathery man, accustomed to facing hard weather.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"More good than bad. Steban will be glad to see you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula stuck her head out the door. Then she came flying, skirts aswirl. "Mikla!" She threw her arms around her brother. "Where have you been? I've been worried sick."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Consorting with the enemy. Staying with Stojan and trying to convince him that we're not all Caydarmen."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Even Caydarmen don't all seem to be Caydarmen," Tain remarked as he hoisted a timber into position.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mikla watched the ease with which he lifted. "Maybe not. But when the arrows are flying, who wonders about the spirit in which they're sped?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. That's right. Steban said you were a veteran."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A whisper of defensiveness passed through Mikla's stance. "Steban exaggerates what I've already exaggerated silly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"An honest man. Rare these days. Toma. You said Kosku chased the Caydarmen away? Will that make more trouble?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Damned right it will," Mikla growled. "That's why I came back. When the word gets around, everybody in the Zemstvi will have his back up. And those folks at the Tower are going to do their damnedest to stop it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kind of leaves me with mixed feelings. I've been saying we ought to do something ever since the Witch turned the Baron's head. But now I wonder if it'll be worth the trouble. It'll cause more than beatings and judicial robberies. Somebody'll get killed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Probably Kosku."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I really didn't think it would go this far," Toma murmured. Tain couldn't fathom the pain in Kleckla. "I thought she'd see where she was heading...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Enough of this raven-cawing," Mikla shouted. He swept Rula into a savage embrace. "What's for supper, little sister?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Same as every night. Mutton stew. What did you expect?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's a good-looking mule over there. She wouldn't miss a flank steak or two."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula startled them with a pert, "You'll get your head kicked in for just thinking about it. That's the orneriest animal I ever saw. She could give mean lessons to Grimnir. But maybe you could talk Tain into fixing supper. He did the other day. It was great."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain thought he saw a glimmer of the girl who had married Toma, of the potential hiding behind the weary mask.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He cooks, too? Mercy. Toma, maybe you should marry him." Tain watched for visual cues. How much of Mikla's banter had an ulterior motive? But the man was hard to read.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula bounced off to the house with a parting shot about having to poison the stew.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That story of Kosku's is spreading like the pox," Toma observed. He reassumed the odd look he had worn on arriving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So. Tain thought. Kosku is talking about the mystery man who doused the fire in his thatch. Was that what had brought Torfin?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Caydarman stopped by," he told Kleckla. "Torfin. He watered his horse. We talked."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What'd he want?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing, far as I could tell. Unless he was checking on me. Seemed a pleasant lad."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's the one to watch," Mikla declared. "Quiet and deadly. Like a viper."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula told me about Stojan's men."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Them? They got what they asked for. Stojan didn't like it, but what could he do? Torfin cut them down inside the Baron's corral. He let a couple get away just so they could carry the warning."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"With only seven men in his way I wouldn't think Stojan would care how things looked."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Neither Stojan's nor Hywel's clans amount to much. They had smallpox bad the year before we came out. Stojan can't get twenty warriors together."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban must have heard the news," Tain observed. "He's coming home early."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy outdistanced his flock. Toma hurried to meet him. Tain and Mikla strolled along behind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What army were you in?" the latter asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had faced the question since arriving. But no one had phrased it quite this directly. He had to tell the truth, or lie. A vague reply would be suspicious. "Necremnen." He hoped Mikla was unfamiliar with the nations of the Roe basin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah." Mikla kept asking pointed questions. Several tight minutes passed before Tain realized that he wasn't fishing for something. The man just had the curiosities. "Your sister. She's not happy here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know." Mikla shrugged. "I do what I can for her. But she's Toma's wife."</div>
<div class="paragraph">And that, thought Tain, told a whole tale about the west. Not that the women of his own nation had life much easier. But their subjugation was cosmeticized and sweetened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma reached Steban. He flung his arms around wildly. Mikla started trotting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain kept walking. He wanted to study Mikla when the man wasn't conscious of being observed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was a masculine edition of Rula. Same lean bone structure, same dark brown hair, same angular head. Mikla would be several years older. Say thirty-six. Rula couldn't be more than thirty-three, despite having been married so long.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The world takes us hard and fast. Tain thought. Suddenly he felt old.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma and Mikla came running. "Steban saw smoke," Toma gasped. "Toward Kosku's place. We're going over there." They ran on to the house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain walked after them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He arrived to find Toma brandishing his quarterstaff. Mikla was scraping clots of earth off a sword he had dug out of the floor.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36255637" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36255639" class="calibre8"></a>X <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Sorrow invaded Tain's soul. He couldn't repulse it. It persisted while he helped Steban water the sheep, and worsened while he sat with Rula, waiting for the men to return. Hours passed before he identified its root cause. Homesickness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm exhausted," he muttered. "Better turn in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula sped him a look of mute appeal. He ignored it. He didn't dare wait with her. Not anymore. Not with these unsoldierly feelings threatening to betray all honor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Soldier's Rituals did no good. They only reminded him of the life he had abandoned. He was a soldier no more. He had chosen a different path, a different life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A part of life lay inside the sod house, perhaps his for the asking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm a man of honor," he mumbled. Desperation choked his voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And again his heart leaned to his motherland.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sighing, he broke into his mule packs. He found his armorer's kit, began oiling his weapons.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But his mind kept flitting, taunting him like a black butterfly. Home. Rula. Home. Rula again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Piece by piece, with exaggerated care, he oiled his armor. It was overdue. Lacquerwork needed constant, loving care. He had let it slide so he wouldn't risk giving himself away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He worked with the unhappy devotion of a recruit forewarned of a surprise inspection. It required concentration. The distractions slid into the recesses of his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was cleaning the eyepieces of his mask when he heard the startled gasp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up. Rula had come to the barn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hadn't heard her light tread.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She stared at the mask. Fascination and horror alternated on her face. Her lips worked. No sound came forth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain didn't move.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This is the end, he thought. She knows what the mask means....</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I... . Steban fell asleep. ... I thought...." She couldn't tear her gaze away from that hideous metal visage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She yielded to the impulse to flee, took several steps. Then something drew her back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fatalistically. Tain polished the thin traceries of inlaid gold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you? ... Is that real9"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Rula." He reattached the mask to his helmet. "I was a leading centurion of the Demon Guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Demon Prince's personal bodyguard." He returned mask and helmet to his mule packs, started collecting the rest of his armor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had to go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How? How can that be? You're not?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We're just men, Rula. Not devils." He guided the mule to the packs, threw a pad across her back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We have our weaknesses and fears too." He threw the first pack on and adjusted it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you doing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't stay now. You know what I was. That changes everything."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She watched till he finished. But when he called the roan, and began saddling him, she whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain?" He turned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She wasn't two feet away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain. It doesn't matter. I won't tell anyone. Stay." One of his former master's familiar spirits reached into his guts and, with bloody talons, slowly twisted his intestines. It took no experience to read the offer in her eyes. "Please stay. I... We need you here." One treacherous hand overcame his will. He caressed her cheek. She shivered under his touch, hugged herself as if she were cold. She pressed her cheek against his fingers. "Stay?" Her voice was a mouse's whisper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He tried to harden his eyes. "Oh, no. Not now. More than ever."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain. Don't. You can't." Her gaze fell to the straw. Savage quaking conquered her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She moved toward him. Her arms enveloped his neck. She buried her face in his chest. He felt the warm moistness of tears through his clothing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He couldn't push her away. "No," he said, and she understood that he meant he wouldn't go.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He separated himself gently and began unloading the mule. He avoided Rula's eyes, and she his whenever he succumbed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned to the roan. Then Mikla's voice, cursing, came from toward Kosku's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Better go inside. I'll be there in a minute." Disappointment, pain, anger, fear, played tag across Rula's face. "Yes. All right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Slowly, going to the Rituals briefly, Tain finished. Maybe later. During the night, when she wouldn't be here to block his path... .</div>
<div class="paragraph">Liar, he thought. It's too late now. He went to the house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma and Mikla had arrived. They were opening jars of beer. "It was Kosku's place," Toma said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hate and anger had him shaking. He was ready to do something foolish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He got away," Mikla added. "They're hunting him now. Like an animal. They'll murder him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He'll go to Palikov's," Toma said. Mikla nodded. "They're old friends. Palikov is as stubborn as he is."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They can figure the same as us. The Witch. ..." Mikla glanced at Tain. "She'll tell them." He finished his beer, seized another jar. Toma matched his consumption.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We could get there first," Toma guessed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a long way. Six miles." Mikla downed his jar, grabbed another. Tain glanced into the wall pantry. The beer supply was dwindling fast. And it was a strong drink, brewed by the nomads from grain and honey. They traded it for sheepskins and mutton.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Palikov," said Tain. "He's the one that lives out by the Toad?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's him." Mikla didn't pay Tain much heed. Toma gave him a look that asked why he wanted to know.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can't let them get away with it," Kleckla growled. "No! with murder. Enough is enough. This morning they beat the Arimkov girl half to death."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh!" Rula gasped. "She always was jealous of Lari. Over that boy Lief."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Toma."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain considered the men. They were angry and scared. They had decided to do a deed, didn't know if they could, and felt they had talked too much to back down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A lot more beer would go down before they marched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain stepped backward into the night, leaving.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36255882" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36255884" class="calibre8"></a>XI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">He spent fifteen minutes probing the smouldering remnants of Kosku's home and barn. He found something Toma and Mikla had overlooked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The child's body was so badly burned he couldn't tell its sex.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had seen worse. He had been a soldier of the Dread Empire. The gruesome corpse moved him less than did the horror of the sheep pens.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The animals had been used for target practice. The raiders hadn't bothered finishing the injured.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain did what had to be done. He understood Toma and Mikla better after cutting the throats of lambs and kids.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was no excuse for wanton destruction. Though the accusation sometimes flew, the legions never killed or destroyed for pleasure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A beast had left its mark here.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He swung onto the roan and headed toward the Toad.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A wall collapsed behind him. The fire returned to life, splashing the slope with dull red light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's shadow reached ahead, flickering like an uncertain black ghost.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Distance fled. About a mile east of the Kleckla house he detected other night travelers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma and Mikla were walking slowly, steering a wobbly course, pausing frequently to relieve their bladders. They had brought beer with them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain gave them a wide berth. They weren't aware of his passing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They had guessed wrong in predicting that they would beat the Caydarmen to Palikov's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir and four others had accompanied the Witch. Tain didn't see Torfin among them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The raiders had their heads together. They had tried a torching and had failed. A horse lay between house and nightriders, moaning, with an arrow in its side. A muted Kosku kept cursing the Witch and Caydarmen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain left the roan. He moved downhill to a shadow near the raiders. He squatted, waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This time he bore his weapons.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Toad loomed behind the Palikov home. Its evil god aspect felt believable. It seemed to chuckle over this petty human drama.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain touched the hilt of his longsword. He was tempted. Yet.... He wanted no deaths. Not now. Not here. This confrontation had to be neutralized, if only to keep Toma and Mikla from stumbling into a situation they couldn't handle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Maybe he could stop it without bloodshed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He took flint and steel from his travel pouch. He sealed his eyes, let his chin fall to his chest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't understand the words. They weren't in his childhood tongue. They had been taught him when he was young, during his Aspirant training.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His world shrank till he was alone in it. He no longer felt the breeze, nor the earth beneath his toes. He heard nothing, nor did the light of torches seep through the flesh of his eyelids. The smell of fetid torch smoke faded from his consciousness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He floated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He reached out, locating his enemies, visualizing them from a slight elevation. His lips continued to work.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He struck flint against steel, caught the spark with his mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Six pairs of eyes jerked his way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A luminous something grew round the spark, which seemed frozen in time, neither waxing nor dying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The luminosity spread diaphanous wings, floated upward. Soon it looked like a gigantic, glowing moth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Witch shrieked. Fear and rage drenched her voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain willed the moth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Its wings fluttered like silk falling. The Witch flailed with her hands, could touch nothing. The moth's clawed feet pierced her hood, seized her hair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Flames sprang up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The woman screamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The moth ascended lightly, fluttered toward Grimnir.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Caydarman remained immobile, stunned, till his hair caught fire. Then he squealed and ran for his horse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others broke a moment later. Tain burned one more, then recalled the elemental.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a minor magick, hardly more than a trick, but effective enough as a surprise. And no one died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One Caydarman came close.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were a horse short, and too interested in running to share with the man who came up short.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Whooping, old man Kosku stormed from the house. He let an arrow fly. It struck the Caydarman in the shoulder. Kosku would have killed him had Tain not threatened him with the moth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain recalled the spark again. This time it settled to the point it had occupied when the moth had come to life. The elemental faded. The spark fell, dying before it hit ground.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain withdrew from his trance. He returned flint and steel to his pouch, rose. "Good," he whispered. "It's done."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was tired. He hadn't the mental or emotional muscle to sustain extended use of the Power. He wasn't sure he could make it home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But he had been a soldier of the Dread Empire. He did not yield to weariness.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36256079" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36256081" class="calibre8"></a>XII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The fire's smoke hung motionless in the heavy air. Little more than embers remained. The ashes beneath were deep. The little light remaining stirred spooky shadows amongst the odd, conical rocks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling slept soundly. He had made his bed there for so long that his body knew every sharp edge beneath it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The hillmen sentinels watched without relaxing. They knew this bane too well. They bothered him no more. All they wanted of him was warning time, so their women and children could flee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling sat bolt upright. He listened. His gaze turned west. His head thrust foreward. His nose twitched like that of a hound on point. A smile toyed with his lips. He donned his golden panther mask.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sentinels ran to tell their people that the man-of-death was moving.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36256108" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36256110" class="calibre8"></a>XIII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Toma and Mikla slept half the day. Tain labored on the windmill, then the house. He joined Rula for lunch. She followed him when he returned to work.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What happened to them?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was almost sunup when they came home. They didn't say anything."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They weren't hurt?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was over before they got there." The fear edged her voice again, but now she had it under control.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I'm building a mountain of responsibility, Tain thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She watched him work a while, admiring the deft way he pegged timbers into place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He clambered up to check the work Toma had done on the headers. Out of habit he scanned the horizon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hill away, a horseman watched the stead. Tain balanced on the header. The rider waved. Tain responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone began cursing inside the sod house. Rula hurried that way. Tain sighed. He wouldn't have to explain a greeting to the enemy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Minutes later Mikla came outside. He had a hangover. A jar of beer hung from his left hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good afternoon," Tain called.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The hell it is." Mikla came over, leaned against a stud. "Where were you last night?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What? Asleep in the barn. Why?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not sure. Toma!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma came outside. He looked worse than his brother-in-law. "What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What'd old man Kosku say?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Old coot talked all night. I quit listening to him last year."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"About the prowler who ran the Caydarmen off."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah. I don't remember. A black giant sorcerer? He's been seeing things for years. I don't think he's ever sober."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He was sober last night. And he told the same story the first time they tried burning him out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma shrugged. "Believe what you want. He's just crazy." But Toma considered Tain speculatively.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Someone coming," Tain said. The runner was coming from the direction of the Kosku stead. Soon Toma and Mikla could see him too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's Wes. Kosku's youngest," Toma said. "What's happened now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">When the boy reached the men, he gasped, "It's Dad. He's gone after Olag."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Calm down," Mikla told him, "Catch your breath first." The boy didn't wait long. "We went back to the house. To see if we could save anything. We found Mari. We thought she ran to Jeski's... .</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was all burned... .Then Ivon Pilsuski came by. He said Olag was in town. He was bragging about teaching Dad a lesson. So Dad went to town. To kill him." Tain sighed. It seemed unstoppable now. There was blood in it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma looked at Mikla. Mikla stared back. "Well?" said Toma.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's probably too late."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you going?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mikla rubbed his forehead, pushed his hair out of his eyes. "Yes. All right." He went to the house. Toma followed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The two came back. Mikla had his sword. Toma had his staff. They walked round the corner of the house, toward the village, without speaking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula flew outside. "Tain! Stop them! They'll get killed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He seized her shoulders, held her at arm's length. "I can't."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, you can. You're.... You mean you won't." Something had broken within her. Her fear had returned. The raid had effected her the way the Caydarmen wanted it to effect the entire Zemstvi.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I mean I can't. I've done what I could. There's blood in it now. It'll take blood to finish it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then go with them. Don't let anything happen to them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain shook his head sadly. He had gotten himself cornered here.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had to go. To protect a man who claimed the woman he wanted. If he didn't, and Toma were killed, he would be forever asking himself if he had willed it to happen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He sealed his eyes briefly, then avoided Rula's by glancing at the sky. Cloudless and blue, it recalled the day when last he had killed a man. There, away toward Kosku's, Death's daughters planed the air, omening more dying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right." He went to the Kosku boy, who sat by the new house, head between his knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wes. We're going to town. Will you stay with Mrs. Kleckla?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay." The boy didn't raise his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain walked toward the barn. "Take care of him, Rula. He needs mothering now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma and Mikla traveled fast. Tain didn't overtake them till they were near the village. He stayed out of sight, riding into town after them. He left the roan near the first house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were two horses in the village. Both belonged to Caydarmen. He ignored them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kosku and a Caydarman stood in the road, arguing viciously. The whole village watched. Kosku waved a skinning knife.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain spotted the other Caydarman. Grimnir leaned against a wall between two houses, grinning. The big man wore a hat to conceal his hairless pate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain strolled his way as Mikla and Toma bore down on Olag. Olag said something. Kosku hurled himself at the Caydarman. Blades flashed. Kosku fell. Olag kicked him, laughed. The old man moaned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mikla and Toma charged. The Caydarman drew his sword. Grimnir, still grinning, started to join him. Tain seized his left bicep. "No."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir tried to yank away. He failed. He tried punching himself loose. Tain blocked the blow, backhanded Grimnir across the face. "I said no."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir paused. His eyes grew huge. "Don't move. Or I'll kill you." Grimnir tried for his sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain tightened his grip, Grimnir almost whimpered. And in the road Tain's oracle became fact.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mikla had been a soldier once, but now he was as rusty as his blade. Olag battered his sword aside, nicked him. Toma thrust his staff at the Caydarman's head. Olag brushed it away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain sighed sadly. "Grimnir, walk down the road. Get on your horse. Go back to the Tower. Do it now, or don't expect to see the sun set." He released the man's arm. His hand settled to the pommel of his longsword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir believed him. He hurried to his horse, one hand holding his hat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Olag glanced his way, grinned, shouted, "Hey, join the game, big man." He seemed puzzled when Grimnir galloped away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain started toward Olag.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma went down with a shoulder wound. Mikla had suffered a dozen cuts. Olag was playing with him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fear was in him now. His pride had neared its snapping point. In a moment he would run.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop it," Tain ordered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Olag stepped back, considered him from a red tangle of hair and beard. He licked his lips and smiled. "Another one?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He buried his blade in Mikla's guts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's swords sang as they cleared their scabbards. The evening sun played purple and indigo upon their blades.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Olag stopped grinning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was good. But the Caydarman had never faced a man doubly armed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He fell within twenty seconds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The villagers stared, awed. The whispers started, speculating about Kosku's mystery giant. Tain ignored them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He dropped to one knee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was too late for Mikla. Toma, though, would mend. But his shoulder would bother him for the rest of his life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain tended Kleckla's wound, then whistled for the roan. He set Toma in the saddle and laid Mikla behind him. He cleaned his blades on the dead Caydarman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He started home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma, in shock, stared at the horizon and spoke not a word.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36256410" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36256412" class="calibre8"></a>XIV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Rula ran to meet them. How she knew Tain couldn't fathom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Darkness had fallen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban was a step behind her, face taut and pallid. He looked at his father and uncle and retreated into an inner realm nothing could assail.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Rula. I wasn't quick enough. The man who did it is dead, if that helps." Honest grief moved him. He slid his arm around her waist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban slipped under his other arm. They walked down to the sod house. The roan followed, his nose an inch behind Tain's right shoulder. The old soldier took comfort from the animal's concern.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They placed Mikla on a pallet, and Toma in his own bed. "How bad is he?" Rula asked, moving and talking like one of the living dead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain knew the reaction. The barriers would relax sometime. Grief would demolish her. He touched her hand lightly. "He'll make it. It's a clean wound. Shock is the problem now. Probably more emotional than physical."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban watched with wide, sad eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain squated beside Toma, cleansing his wound again. "Needle and thread, Rula. He'll heal quicker."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're a surgeon too?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I commanded a hundred men. They were my responsibility."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fire danced suddenly. The blanket closing the doorway whipped. Cold air chased itself round the inside walls. "Rain again," Rula said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain nodded. "A storm, I think. The needle?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh. Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He accepted needle and thread. "Steban. Come here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy drifted over as if gripped by a narcotic dream.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sit. I need your help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban shook his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You wanted to be a soldier. I'll start teaching you now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban lowered himself to the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The sad lessons are the hardest. And the most important. A soldier has to watch friends die. Put your fingers here, like this. Push. No. Gently. Just enough to keep the wound shut." Tain threaded the needle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uncle Mikla... . How did it happen?" Disbelief animated the boy. His uncle could do anything.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He forgot one of a soldier's commandments. He went after an enemy he didn't know. And he forgot that it's been a long time since he used a sword."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold still, Steban. I'm going to start."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma surged up when the needle entered his flesh. A moan ripped from his throat. "Mikla! No!" His reason returned with his memory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Toma!" Tain snapped. "Lie down. Rula, help us. He's got to lie still."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma struggled. He started bleeding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban gagged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold on, Steban. Rula, get down here with your knees beside his head. Toma, can you hear me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kleckla stopped struggling. He met Tain's eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm trying to sew you up. You have to hold still."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula ran her fingers over Toma's features.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good. Try to relax. This won't take a minute. Yes. Good thinking, Steban."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy had hurled himself away, heaved, then had taken control. He returned with fists full of wool. Tain used it to sponge blood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold the wound together, Steban."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy's fingers quivered when the blood touched them, but he persevered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good. A soldier's got to do what's got to be done, like it or not. Toma? I'm starting."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uhm."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The suturing didn't take a minute. The bandaging took no longer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula. Make some broth. He'll need lots of it. I'm going to the barn. I'll get something for the pain. Steban. Wash your hands."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy was staring at his father's blood on his fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A gust of wind stirred fire and door covering. The wind was cold. Then an avalanche of rain fell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A more solid sound counterpointed the patter of raindrops.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hailstones," Rula said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have to get my horse inside. What about the sheep?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban will take care of them. Steban?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thunder rolled across the Zemstvi. Lightning scarred the night. The sheep bleated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban! Please! Before they panic."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Another lesson, Steban." Tain guided the boy out the door. "You've got to go on, no matter what."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rain was cold and hard. It fell in huge drops. The hailstones stung, The thunder and lightning picked up. The wind had claws of ice. It tore at gaps in Tain's clothing. He guided the roan into the rude barn. The gelding's presence calmed the mule and cow. Tain rifled his packs by lightning flashes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban drove the sheep into the barn too. They would be crowded, but sheltered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain went to help.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He saw the rider in the flashes, coming closer in sudden jerks. The man lay against his mount's neck, hiding from the wind. His destination could be nowhere but the stead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain told Steban. "Take this package to your mother. Tell her to wait till I come in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban scampered off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain backed into the lee of the barn. He waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rider passed the spring. "Torfin. Here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The paint changed direction. The youth swung down beside Tain. "Oh, what a night. What're you doing out in it, friend?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Getting the sheep inside."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right for a Caydarman to come in out of it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You picked the wrong time, Torfin. But come on. Crowd the horse inside."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Lightning flashed. Thunder rolled. The youth eyed Tain. The ex-soldier still wore his shortsword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What happened?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You haven't been to the Tower?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not for a couple days."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Torfin, tell me. Why do you hang around here? How come you're always watching Steban graze sheep?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh... . The Klecklas deserve better."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain helped with the saddle. "Better than what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see. They haven't told you. But they'd hide their shame, wouldn't they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't understand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The one they call the Witch. She's their daughter Shirl."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lords of Darkness!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's why they have no friends."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But you don't blame them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When the Children of Hell curse someone with the Power, is that a parent's fault? No. I don't blame them. Not for that. For letting her become a petulant, spoiled little thief, yes. I do. The Power-cursed choose the right or left hand path according to personality. Not so?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's debatable. They let me think she was dead."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They pretend that. It's been a little over a year since she cast her spell on the Baron. She thought he'd take her to Iwa Skolovda and make her a great lady. But she doesn't understand politics. The Baron can't go back. And now she can't come home. Now she's trying to buy a future by stealing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How old are you, Torfin?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nineteen, I think. Too old."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You sound older. I think I like you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm a Caydarman by chance, not inclination."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think you've had pain from this too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A wan smile crossed Torfin's lips. "You make me wonder. Do you read minds? What are you, carrying such a sword?" When Tain didn't respond, he continued bitterly. "Yes, there's pain in it for Torfin Hakesson. I was in love with Shirl. She used me. To get her into the Tower."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's sad. We'd better go in. Be careful. They're not going to be glad to see you. Caydarmen burned the Kosku place. One of his girls was killed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Damn! But it was bound to happen, wasn't it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. And that was just the beginning. Kosku went after Olag and Grimnir. He was killed too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Which one did it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too late. Olag, but he's dead too. He killed Mikla and wounded Toma first, though."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Help me with the saddle. I can't stay."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stay. Maybe together we can stop the bloodshed here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't face them. They already hate me. Because of Shirl."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stay. Tomorrow we'll go to the Tower. We'll see the Baron himself. He can stop it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mikla lived with Stojan's daughter. The old man will want to avenge him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All the more reason to stop it here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin thought again. "All right. You didn't cut me down. Maybe you have a man's heart."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain smiled. "I'll guard your back, Trolledyngjan."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36256794" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36256796" class="calibre8"></a>XV <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Rula and Toma were talking in low, sad tones. Tain pushed through the doorway. Silence descended.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Such hatred! "Torfin will stay the night. We're going to the Tower in the morning. To talk to the Baron." Tain glared, daring opposition.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma struggled up. "Not in my house."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lie down, damn it. Your pride and fear have caused enough trouble."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma said nothing. Rula tensed as if to spring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain!" Steban whined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Torfin has said some hard things about himself. He's almost too eager to take his share of responsibility. He's willing to try to straighten things out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In no land I know does a father let his daughter run away and just cry woe. A man is responsible for his children, Toma. You could have gone after her. But it's easier to play like she's dead, and the Witch of the Tower has nothing to do with you. You sit here hating the Baron and refuse to admit your own part in creating the situation...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stopped. He had slipped into his drillmaster's voice. Pointless. Recruits had to listen, to respond, to correct. These westerners had no tradition of personal responsibility. They were roundeyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They blamed their misfortunes on external forces....</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hadn't Toma blamed Mikla? Didn't Rula accuse Toma?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's all. I can't do any good shouting. Torfin is spending the night. Rula. Steban gave you a package."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She nodded. She refused to speak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">For an instant he feared she hadn't understood. But the packet came with a murmured, "It's all right. I'll control my feelings."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is the broth ready?" He felt compelled to convince Rula.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She ladled a wooden bowl full. "Tain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uhm."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't expect me to stop feeling."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't. I feel too. Too much. I killed a man today. A man I didn't know, for no better reason than because I responded to feelings. I don't like that, Rula."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked down, understanding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban chimed, "But you were a soldier...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban, a soldier is supposed to keep the peace, not start wars." The almost-lie tasted bitter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Dread Empire interpreted that credo rather obliquely. Yet Tain had believed he was living it while marching to conquest after conquest. Only when Shinsan turned upon itself did he question his commanders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain... ." There was a life's worth of pain in Steban's voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"People are going to get killed if we don't stop it, Steban." Tain tapped herbs into Toma's broth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your friends. Maybe there are only six Caydarmen. Maybe they could be beaten by shepherds. But what happens when the Baron has to run?" He hoped Toma was paying attention. Steban didn't care about the long run.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma's eyes remained hard. But he listened. Tain had won that much respect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Governments just won't tolerate rebellion. It doesn't matter if it's justified. Overthrow the Baron and you'll have an army in the Zemstvi."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula shrieked, "Tain!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He whirled, disarmed Steban in an eye's blink. Torfin nodded in respect. "Thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban," Toma gasped. "Come here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dad, he's a Caydarman!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain pushed the boy. A soul-searing hatred burned in his young eyes. He glared at Mikla, Torfin, and Tain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain suddenly felt tired and old. What was he doing? Why did he care? It wasn't his battle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His eyes met Rula's. Through the battle of her soul flickered the feelings she had revealed the day before. He sighed. It was his battle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had killed a man. There was blood in it. He couldn't run away.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36256952" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36256954" class="calibre8"></a>XVI <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I want to see Shirl," Rula declared next morning. "I'm going too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mom!" Steban still didn't understand. He wouldn't talk to Tain, and Torfin he eyed like a butcher considering a carcass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain responded, "First we take care of Mikla. Steban. The sheep. Better pasture them." To Toma,</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Going to need sheds. That barn's too crowded."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Toma didn't reply. He did take his breakfast broth without difficulty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He finally spoke when Steban refused to graze the sheep. "Boy, come here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban went, head bowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Knock it off. You're acting like Shirl. Pasture the sheep. Or I'll paddle your tail all the way out there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban ground his teeth, glared at Tain. And went.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula insisted that Mikla lie beside the new home's door. Tain and Torfin took turns digging.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain went inside. "We're ready. Toma. You want to go out?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've got to. It's my fault.... I have to watch him go down. So I'll remember."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain raised an eyebrow questioningly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought about what you said. I don't like it, but you're right. Four dead are enough."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good. Torfin! Help me carry Toma."</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a quiet burial. Rula wept softly. Toma silently stared his brother-in-law into the ground.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Neither Torfin nor Tain spoke. There were no appropriate words.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain saddled the roan and threw a pad on the mule. He spoke to her soothingly, reassuringly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He knelt beside Toma while Torfin readied the paint. "You'll be all right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just leave me some beer. And some soup and bread."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good luck."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Toma."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mule accepted Rula's weight, though ungraciously. Tain donned his weapons. Little was said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain silently pursued his Morning Ritual. He hadn't had time earlier. Torfin watched. He and Rula couldn't talk. There were too many barriers between them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Tower was a growing, squat, dark block filled with frightening promise. A single vermillion banner waved over its ramparts. A feather of smoke curled from an unseen chimney.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Something's wrong." Torfin remarked. They were a quarter mile away. "I don't see anybody."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain studied their surroundings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sheep and goats crowded the pens clinging to the Tower's skirts. Chickens and geese ran free.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Several scrawny cattle, a mule, and some horses grazed nearby.</div>
<div class="paragraph">No human was visible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There should be a few women and children," Torfin said. "Watching the stock."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's stop here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why?" Rula asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Beyond bowshot. Torfin, you go ahead."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The youth nodded. He advanced cautiously. The closer he drew, the lower he hunched in his saddle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula, stay here." Tain kicked the roan, began trotting round the Tower. Torfin glanced back. He paused at the Tower gate, peered through, dismounted, drew his sword, went in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whoa." The roan stopped. Tain swung down, examined the tracks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Six horses," he murmured. "One small." He leapt onto the roan, galloped toward the Tower gate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Torfin!" He beckoned Rula.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin didn't hear him. Tain dismounted, peered through the gate into a small interior court.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Quarters for the garrison had been built against the bailey walls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is it?" Rula asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Six riders left this morning. The Witch and the other five Caydarmen, probably."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula's cheek twitched. She wove her fingers together. "What about the people here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's find Torfin."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The youth appeared above. "They're up here." He sounded miserable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain guided Rula up the perilous stair. Torfin met them outside a doorway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In here. They saw us coming."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain heard muted weeping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trouble." Torfin explained. "Bad trouble."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I saw the tracks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Worse than that. She'll be able to cut loose for real...." The youth pushed the door. Frightened faces peered out at Tain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three women weren't Trolledyngjan. And their children were too old to have been fathered by the mercenaries.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain had seen those faces countless times, in countless camps. Women with children, without husbands, who attached themselves to an occupying soldiery. They were always beaten, tired, frightened creatures.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mothers and children retreated to one corner of the spartan room. One woman brandished a carving knife. Tain showed his palms. "Don't be afraid. We came to see Baron Caydar."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula tried a smile. Torfin nodded agreement. "It's all right. They mean no harm."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The knife-woman opened a path.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain got his first glimpse of Caydar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Baron lay on a pallet in the corner. He was a spare, short man, bald, with a scraggly beard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was old, and he was dying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This was what Torfin had meant by saying the trouble was big. There would be no brake on the Witch with the Baron gone. "Torfin. Move them. I'll see if I can do anything."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Baron coughed. It was the first of a wracking series. Bloody froth dribbled down his chin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin gestured. The Tower people sidled like whipped dogs. Tain knelt by the old man. "How long has he been sick?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Always. He seldom left this room. How bad is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula. In my left saddle bag. The same leather packet I had when I treated Toma." She left. "He'll probably go before sundown. But I'll do what I can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, if he dies.... Grimnir and the others.... They'd rather take the Witch's orders. Her style suits them better."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain checked the Baron's eyes and mouth, dabbed blood, felt his chest. There was little left of Caydar. "Torfin. Anyone else shown these symptoms?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think so."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They will. Probably the girl, if she's been intimate with him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula reappeared. She heard. "What is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tuberculosis."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. Tain, she's only a child."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Disease doesn't care. And you could say she's earned it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. That isn't fair."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing's fair, Rula. Nothing. Torfin. Find out where she went." Tain took the packet from Rula, concentrated on Caydar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He left the room a half hour later, climbed the ladder to the ramparts. Hands clasped behind him, he stared at the green of the Zemstvi.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A beautiful land, he thought. About to be sullied with blood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fate, with a malicious snicker, had squandered the land's last hope.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin followed him. "They're not sure. She just led them out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Probably doesn't matter. It's too late. Unless. ..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We smash the snake's head."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What? He's going to die? You can't stop it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. And that leaves Shirl."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You saying what I think?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She has to die."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin smiled thinly. "Friend, she wouldn't let you do it. And if she couldn't stop you with the Power, I'd have to with the sword."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain locked eyes with the youth. Torfin wouldn't look away. "She means a lot to you, eh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I still love her."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So," Tain murmured. "So. Can you stand up to her? Can you bully the others into behaving themselves?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can try."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do. I'm into this too deep, lad. If you don't control her, I'll try to stop her the only way I know." He turned to stare across the Zemstvi again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Though the Tower wasn't tall, it gave a view of the countryside matched only from the Toad. That grim formation was clearly visible. The rain had cleared the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Someone was running toward the Tower, Beyond, a fountain of smoke rose against the backdrop formed by the Dragon's Teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A distance-muted thunderclap smote the air. "That's your place," Torfin said softly.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_18" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36257335" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36257337" class="calibre8"></a>XVII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">A man in black, wearing a golden mask, rounded a knoll. He paused above the Palikov stead. Bloody dawnlight leaked round the Toad. It splashed him as he knelt, feeling the earth. It made his mask more hideous. The faceted ruby eyepieces seemed to catch fire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thin fingers floated on the air, reaching, till they pointed westward. The man in black rose and started walking. His fingers led him on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went slowly, sensing his quarry's trail. It was cold. Occasionally he lost it and had to circle till he caught it again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sun scaled the sky. Kai Ling kept walking. A gentle, anticipatory smile played behind his mask.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The feel of the man was getting stronger. He was getting close. It was almost done. In a few hours he would be home. The Tervola would be determining the extent of his reward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He crossed a low hilltop and paused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A shepherd's stead lay below. He reached out....</div>
<div class="paragraph">One man, injured, lay within the crude sod house. A second life-spark lurked in the grove surrounding the nearby spring.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And there were six riders coming in from the southwest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One seized his attention. She corruscated with a stench of wild, untrained Power.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lords of Darkness," Kai Ling whispered. "She's almost as strong as the Demon Princess." He crouched, becoming virtually invisible in a patch of gorse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Five of the riders dismounted. They heaped kindling round the timbers of a partially finished house.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A man staggered from the sod structure. "Shirl!" he screamed. "For god's sake"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A raider tripped him, slipped a knife into his back as he wriggled on the earth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling stirred slightly as two blasts of emotion exploded below.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A child burst from the grove, shrieking, running toward the killer. And the wild witch lashed the man with a whip. He screamed louder than the boy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling reeled back from the raw surge. She was as strong as the Prince's daughter. But extremely young and undisciplined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stood.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tableau froze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The boy thought quickest. He paused only a second, then whirled and raced away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others regarded Kai Ling for half a minute. Then the witch turned her mount toward him. He felt the uncertainty growing within her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling let his Aspirant's senses roam the stead. The barn stood out. That was his man's living place. But he was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Faceted rubies tracked the fleeing boy. Lips smiled behind gold. "Bring him to me, child," he whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The raiders formed a line shielding the woman. Swords appeared. Kai Ling glanced at the boy. He waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She felt him now, he knew. She knew there had been sorcery in the Zemstvi. She would be wondering....</div>
<div class="paragraph">A raider wheeled suddenly. Kai Ling could imagine his words.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had been recognized.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He folded his arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What would she try?</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fire gnawed at the new house. Smoke billowed up. Kai Ling glanced westward. The child had disappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The witch's right arm thrust his way. Pale fire sparkled amongst her fingertips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He murmured into his mask, readying his defenses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She was a wild witch. Untrained. She had only intuitive control of the Power. Her emotions would effect what little control she had. He remained unworried despite her strength.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling underestimated the size of the channel fear could open in her. She hit him with a blast that nearly melted his protection.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He fell to his knees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He forced his hands together.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thunder rolled across the Zemstvi. The timbers of the burning house leapt into the air, tumbled down like a lazy rain of torches. The sod house twisted, collapsed. The barn canted dangerously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The cow inside bawled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The witch toppled from her horse, screaming, clawing her ears. She thrashed and wailed till a raider smacked her unconscious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Caydarmen looked uphill. Kai Ling, though unconscious, remained upon his knees. Golden fire burned where his face belonged. They tossed the witch aboard her horse, fled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kai Ling eventually fell forward into the gorse, vanishing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then only the flames moved on the Kleckla stead, casting dancing color onto the man whose dreams were dying with him.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_19" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36257513" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36257515" class="calibre8"></a>XVIII <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Tain pushed the roan. He met Steban more than a mile from the Tower. The boy was exhausted, but his arms and legs kept pumping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain!" he called. "Tain, they killed Pa." He spoke in little bursts, between lung-searing gasps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You go on to your mother. She's at the Tower. Come on. Go." He kicked the roan to a gallop.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban didn't reach the Tower. Rula, having conquered Tain's mule, met him. She pulled him up behind her and continued toward her home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain saw the Caydarmen to the south, but didn't alter course. He would find them when their time came.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was too late now. Absolutely too late. He had switched allegiance from peace to blood. He would kill them. The Witch would go last. After she saw her protectors stripped away. After she learned the meaning of terror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was an angry, unreasoning man. Only craft and cunning remained.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He knew he couldn't face her wild magic armed only with long and shortsword. To do so he had to resume his abandoned identity. He had to become a soldier of the Dread Empire once more. A</div>
<div class="paragraph">centurion's armor bore strong protective magicks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What amazing fear would course through the Zemstvi!</div>
<div class="paragraph">He pulled up when he topped the last hill.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The after-smell of sorcery tainted the air round the stead. The familiar stench of the Dread Empire overrode that of the Witch....</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hurled himself from the horse into the shelter of small bushes. His swords materialized in his hands. His emotions perished like small flames in a sudden deluge. He probed with Aspirant senses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They had come. Because of the civil war he hadn't believed they would bother. He had fooled himself. They couldn't just let him go, could they? Not a centurion with his background. He could be too great a boon to potential enemies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The heirs of the Dread Empire, both the Demon Princess and the Dragon Prince, aspired to western conquests.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain frowned. Sorceries had met here. The eastern had been victorious. So what had become of the victor?</div>
<div class="paragraph">He waited nearly fifteen minutes, till certain the obvious trap wasn't there. Only then did he enter the yard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He couldn't get near Toma. The flames were too hot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Kleckla was beyond worry anyway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain was calm. His reason was at work. He had surprised himself in the jaws of a merciless vice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One was his determination to rid the Zemstvi of the Witch and her thieves. The other was the hunter from home, who would be a man stronger than he, a highly ranked Candidate or Select.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Where was he? Why didn't he make his move?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Right now, just possibly, he could get away. If he obscured his trail meticulously and avoided using the Power again, he might give his past the slip forever. But if he hazarded the Tower, there would be no chance whatsoever. He would have to use the Power. The hunter would pin him down, and come when he was exhausted....</div>
<div class="paragraph">Life had been easier when he hadn't made his own decisions. Back then it hadn't mattered if a task were perilous or impossible. All he had had to do was follow orders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He released the old cow, recovered his mule packs. He stared at them a long time, as if he might be able to exhume a decision from their contents.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He heard a noise. His hands flew to his swords.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula, Steban, and the mule descended the hill.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain relaxed, waited.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula surveyed the remains. "This's the cost of conciliation." There was no venom in her voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes." He searched her empty face for a clue. He found no help there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rula, they've sent somebody after me. From the east. He's in the Zemstvi now. I don't know where.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was here. He chased the Caydarmen off. I don't know why. I don't know who he is. I don't know how he thinks. But I know what his mission is. To take me home."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban said, "I saw him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A stranger. I saw him. Over there. He was all in black. He had this ugly mask on...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A brief hope flickered in Tain's breast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The mask. What did it look like? What were his clothes like?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Steban pouted. "I only saw him for a second. He scared me. I ran."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Try to think. It's important. A soldier has to remember things, Steban. Everything."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think I want to be a soldier anymore."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on. Come on." Tain coaxed him gently, and in a few minutes had drawn out everything Steban knew.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kai Ling. Can't be anybody else." His voice was sad.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You know him?" Rula asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I knew him. He was my best friend. A long, long time ago. When we were Steban's age."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then. ..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing. He's still a Tervola Aspirant. He's been given a mission. Nothing will deflect him. He might shed a tear for our childhood afterward. He was always too emotional for his chosen path."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She surveyed his gear while he helped Steban off the mule. "You mean you have to run to have a chance?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then run. Anything you did now would be pointless anyway."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. A soldier's honor is involved. To abandon a task in the face of a secondary danger would be to betray a code which has been my life. I'm a soldier. I can't stop being one. And soldiers of the Dread Empire don't retreat. We don't flee because we face defeat. There may be purpose in sacrifice. We withdraw only if ordered."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's nobody to order you. You could go. You're your own commander now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know. That's why it's so difficult."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't help you. Tain." The weight of Toma's demise had begun to crack her barriers against grief.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You can. Tell me what you'll do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"About what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He indicated the stead. "You can't stay. Can you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will you go with me if I go?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She shrugged again. The grief was upon her now. She wasn't listening.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain massaged his aching temples, then started unpacking his armor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Piece by piece, he became a leading centurion of the Demon Guard. Steban watched with wide eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He recognized the armor. The legions were known far beyond lands that had endured their unstoppable passing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain donned his helmet, his swords and witch kit. He paused with his mask in hand. Rula said nothing. She stared at Toma, remembering.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain shook his head, donned the mask, walked to the roan. He started toward the Tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't look back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The armor began to feel comfortable. The roan pranced along, glad to be a soldier's steed once more. He felt halfway home....</div>
<div class="paragraph">What he had said penetrated Rula's brain soon after he passed out of view. She glanced round in panic.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The mule remained. As did all Tain's possessions except his weapons and armor. "He left his things!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Quiet tears dribbled from Steban's eyes. "Ma. I don't think he expects to come back. He thinks he's going to die."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Steban, we've got to stop him."</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_20" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36257802" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36257804" class="calibre8"></a>XIX <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">Tain came to the dark tower in the day's last hour. Caydarmen manned its ramparts. An arrow dropped from the sky. It whistled off his armor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin stood beside the Witch. Tain heard her say, "He's not the same one. He wore robes. And walked."</div>
<div class="paragraph">And Torfin responded, awed, "It's Tain. The man who stayed with your father."</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was no thought in the old soldier. He was a machine come to destroy the Tower. He let decades of combat schooling guide him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He began with the gate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">From his witch pouch he drew a short, slim rod and a tiny glass vial. He thrust the rod into the vial, making sure the entire shaft was moist. He spoke words he had learned long ago.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fire exploded in his hand. He hurled a flaming javelin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It flew perfectly flat, immune to gravity. It struck the gate, made a sound like the beating of a brass gong.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Timbers flew as the gate shattered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Caydarmen scrambled down from the ramparts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain returned to his pouch. He removed the jar and silver box he had used in the pass. He greased his hands, obtained one of the deadly peas. He concentrated, breathed. The cerulean glow came into being. He hurled a fiery blue ball upward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It rose slowly, drifted like gossamer toward the ramparts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Witch didn't recognize her peril until too late. The ball jumped at her, enveloping her left hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She screamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin bellowed, followed his confederates downstairs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain dismounted and strode through the gate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Grimnir met him first. Fear filled the big man's eyes. He fought with desperate genius.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And he died.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As did his comrades, though they tried to team against the man in black.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trolledyngjans were feared throughout the west. They were deadly fighters. These were amazed by their own ineffectuality But they had never faced a soldier of the Dread Empire, let alone a leading centurion of the Demon Guard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last fell. Tain faced Torfin. "Yield, boy," he said, breaking battle discipline. "You're the one good man in this viper's nest Go."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Release her." The youth indicated the ramparts. The girl's screams had declined to moans. She had begun fighting the ball Tain knew she had the strength to beat it, if she could find and harness it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He smiled. If she failed, she would die. Even if she succeeded, she would never be the same. No matter what happened to him, he had won something. At her age pain could be a powerful purgative for evil.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Still, he had to try to make the solution absolute. "Stand aside, Torfin. You can't beat me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have to try. I love her, Tain."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're no good to her dead."</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the bottom of it, Torfin was Trolledyngjan. Like Tain, he could be nothing but what he was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Trolledyngjans were stubborn, inflexible, and saw all settlements, finally, in terms of the stronger sword.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin fell into a slight crouch, presenting his blade. He carried a dagger in his off hand, close to his body. Tain's previous opponents hadn't used that method.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Torfin... ."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The youth shuffled closer. He swung his blade in a tentative figure eight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain nodded, began murmuring the Battle Ritual. He had to relax, to give his reflexes complete control. Torfin was more skilled than his confederates. He was young and quick.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He shrieked and lunged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain turned his rush in silence. The soldiers of Shinsan fought, and died, without a word or cry.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Their silence had unnerved men more experienced than Torfin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's cool, wordless competence told. Torfin retreated a step, then another and another. Sweat ran down his forehead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain's shortsword flicked across and pinked Torfin's left hand. The dagger flew away. The youth had used the weapon cunningly, wickedly. Its neutralization had been Tain's immediate goal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin danced away, sucked his wound. He looked into faceted crystal and knew the old soldier had spoken the truth when claiming he couldn't be beaten.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Both glanced upward. Shirl's moans were fading.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain advanced, engaging with his longsword while forcing Torfin to give ground to the short.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin reached the ladder to the ramparts. He scrambled up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain pursued him mercilessly, despite the disadvantage. The youth was a natural swordsman. Even against two blades he kept his guard almost impenetrable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain pushed. Torfin was relying on youth's stamina, hoping he would tire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain wouldn't. He could still spend a day in his hot armor, matching blows with the enemy. He hadn't survived his legion years by yielding to fatigue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain stepped onto the battlements. Torfin had lost his last advantage. Tain paused to glance at the Witch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The blue ball had eaten half her arm. But she was getting the best of it. Only a few sparks still gnawed at her mutilated flesh.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked extremely young and vulnerable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin looked too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain feinted with the longsword, struck with the short.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was his best move.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin's blade tumbled away into the courtyard. Blood stained both of his hands now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He backed away quickly, seized a dagger his love carried at her waist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain sighed, broke battle discipline. "Boy, you're just too stubborn." He sheathed his swords, discarded their harness. He removed his helmet, placed it between his blades.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He went to Torfin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The youth scarred Tain's armor twice before the soldier took the dagger and arced it out into the grass of the Zemstvi.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin still would not yield.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain kicked his feet from beneath him, laid the edge of one hand across the side of his neck.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain backed away, glanced down. Torfin's dagger had found a chink. Red oozed down the shiny ebony of his breastplate. A brutalized rib began aching.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He recovered his shortsword, went toward the Witch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In seconds she would complete her conquest of his magick. In seconds she would be able to destroy him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yet he hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He considered her youth, her vulnerability, her beauty, and understood how she had captivated Torfin and the Baron.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She bleated plaintively, "Mother!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain whirled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula stepped onto the ramparts. "Tain. Don't. Please?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Seconds fled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain sheathed his blade.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shirl sighed and gave up consciousness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, I brought your things. And your mule." Rula pushed past him to her daughter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The wound is cauterized. I'll take care of the bone."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're wounded. Take care of yourself."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It can wait."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He finished Shirl's arm ten minutes later. Then he removed his breastplate and let Rula tend to his injury. It was minor. The scar would become lost among its predecessors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Rula finished. "You'd better go. The hunter...."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're staying?" An infinite sadness filled him as he drew his eyes from hers to scan the Zemstvi. Kai Ling was out there somewhere. He could sense nothing, but that had no meaning. His hunter would be more cunning than he. The trap might have closed already.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's my daughter. She needs me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sadly, Tain gathered his possessions and started for the ladder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin groaned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain laid his things aside, knelt beside the youth. "Ah. She does have this stubborn ass, you know." He gathered his possessions again. This time he descended without pausing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Soldiers of the Dread Empire seldom surrendered to their emotions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had a hand on Steban's shoulder, trying to think of some final word, when Rula came to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain. I'll go."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked into her eyes. Yes, he thought. She would. Dared he?...</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sometimes a soldier did surrender. "Steban. Go find you and your mother some horses. Rula, get some things from the Tower. Food. Utensils. Clothes. Whatever you'll need. And hurry." He scanned the horizon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Where was Kai Ling?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Old friend, are you coming?" he whispered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not even the breeze responded. It giggled round the Tower as if the gathering of Death's daughters were a cosmic joke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Their shadows scurried impatiently round the old stronghold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were a hundred yards along the road to nowhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He whirled the gelding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Torfin leaned on the battlements, right hand grasping his neck.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then he raised the other. "Good luck, centurion."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tain waved. He didn't reply. His ribs ached too much for shouting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The day was dead. He set a night course for the last bit of sunlight. Rula rode to his left, Steban to his right. The mule plodded along behind, snapping at the tails of the newcomers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced back just once, to eye the destruction he had wrought. Death's daughters had descended to the feast. The corner of his mouth quirked downward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">His name was Tain, and he was still a man to beware.</div>


<h1 id="calibre_toc_21" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36258192" class="calibre8"></a><a name="TOC_id36258194" class="calibre8"></a>XX <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">The wind of dark wings wakened Kai Ling. The daughters of Death circled close. One bold vulture had landed a few feet from his outstretched hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He moved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The vulture took wing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He rose slowly. Pain gnawed his nerve ends. He surveyed the stead, the smoking ruins, and understood. He had survived his mistake. He was a lucky man.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Slowly, slowly, he turned, feeling the twilight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There. To the west. The centurion had called on the Power yet again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tain, you always were more trouble than you're worth."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He remembered an incident with goldfish, when he had lied to a Tervola of the Council in order to keep Tain an eligible Aspirant. "More trouble than you're worth." Tain had resigned in favor of the legions two weeks after the prank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Aching in every joint, the whole surface of his body stinging, Aspirant Kai Ling hiked toward the Tower.</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

