---
layout: page
title: "Jingo"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-jingo_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216859">Terry Pratchett</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36422034">notes</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/>
    
      <h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36216859" class="calibre6"></a><a name="TOC_id36216861" class="calibre6"></a>
        Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre7"/>
        JINGO <br class="calibre7"/>
      </h1>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a moonless night, which was <em class="calibre9">good</em> for the purposes of Solid Jackson.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He fished for Curious Squid, so called because, as well as being squid, they were curious. That is to say, their curiosity was the curious thing about them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Shortly after they got curious about the lantern that Solid had hung over the stern of his boat, they started to become curious about the way in which various of their number suddenly vanished skywards with a splash.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Some of them even became curious – very <em class="calibre9">briefly</em> curious – about the sharp barbed thing that was coming very quickly towards them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Curious Squid were extremely curious. Unfortunately, they weren't very good at making connections.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a very long way to this fishing ground, but for Solid the trip was usually well worth it. The Curious Squid were very small, harmless, difficult to find and reckoned by connoisseurs to have the foulest taste of any creature in the world. This made them very much in demand in a certain kind of restaurant where highly skilled chefs made, with great care, dishes containing <em class="calibre9">no trace of the squid whatsoever</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid Jackson's problem was that tonight, a moonless night in the spawning season, when the squid were especially curious about everything, the chef seemed to have been at work on the sea itself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was not a single interested eyeball to be seen. There weren't any other fish either, and usually there were a few attracted to the light. He'd caught sight of one. It had been making through the water extremely fast in a straight line.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He laid down his trident and walked to the other end of the boat, where his son Les was also gazing intently at the torchlit sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a thing in half an hour,” said Solid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You sure we're in the right spot, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid squinted at the horizon. There was a faint glow in the sky that indicated the city of Al-Khali, on the Klatchian coast. He turned round. The other horizon glowed, too, with the lights of Ankh-Morpork. The boat bobbed gently halfway between the two.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'Course we are,” he said, but certainty edged away from his words.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Because there was a hush on the sea. It didn't look right. The boat rocked a little, but that was with their movement, not from any motion of the waves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre9">felt</em> as if there was going to be a storm. But the stars twinkled softly and there was not a cloud in the sky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The stars twinkled on the surface of the water, too. Now <em class="calibre9">that</em> was something you didn't often see.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I reckon we ought to be getting out of here,” Solid said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les pointed at the slack sail. “What're we going to use for wind, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was then that they heard the splash of oars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid, squinting hard, could just make out the shape of another boat, heading towards him. He grabbed his boathook.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I knows that's you, you thieving foreign bastard!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The oars stopped. A voice sang over the water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“May you be consumed by a thousand devils, you damned person!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other boat glided closer. It looked foreign, with eyes painted on the prow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fished 'em all out, have you? I'll take my trident to you, you bottom-feedin' scum that y'are!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My curvy sword at your neck, you unclean son of a dog of the female persuasion!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les looked over the side. Little bubbles fizzed on the surface of the sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dad?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Greasy Arif out there!” snapped his father, “You take a good look at him! He's been coming out here for years, stealing <em class="calibre9">our</em> squid, the evil lying little devil!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dad, there's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You get on them oars and I'll knock his black teeth out!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les could hear a voice saying from the other boat, “—see, my son, how the underhanded fish thief—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Row!” his father shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To the oars!” shouted someone in the other boat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose squid <em class="calibre9">are</em> they, Dad?” said Les.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Ours</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, even before we've caught them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just you shut up and row!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't move the boat, Dad, we're stuck on something!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a hundred fathoms deep here, boy! What's there to stick on?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les tried to disentangle an oar from the thing rising slowly out of the fizzing sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like a… a chicken, Dad!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a sound from below the surface. It sounded like some bell or gong, slowly swinging.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Chickens can't swim!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's made of iron, Dad!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid scrambled to the rear of the boat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a chicken, made of iron. Seaweed and shells covered it and water dripped off it as it rose against the stars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It stood on a cross-shaped perch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There seemed to be a letter on each of the four ends of the cross.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid held the torch closer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he pulled the oar free and sat down beside his son.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Row like the blazes, Les!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's happening, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up and row! Get us away from it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it a monster, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's worse than a monster, son!” shouted Solid, as the oars bit into the water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The thing was quite high now, standing on some kind of tower…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is it, Dad! <em class="calibre9">What is it</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a damned weathercock!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">There was not, on the whole, a lot of geological excitement. The <em class="calibre9">sinking</em> of continents is usually accompanied by volcanoes, earthquakes and armadas of little boats containing old men anxious to build pyramids and mystic stone circles in some new land where being the possessor of genuine ancient occult wisdom might be expected to attract girls. But the rising of this one caused barely a ripple in the purely physical scheme of things. It more or less sidled back, like a cat who's been away for a few days and knows you've been worrying.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Around the shores of the Circle Sea a large wave, only five or six feet high by the time it reached them, caused some comment. And in some of the very low-lying swamp areas the water swamped some villages of people that no one else cared about very much. But in a purely geological sense, nothing very much happened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In a purely geological sense.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a <em class="calibre9">city</em>, Dad! Look, you can see all the windows and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I told you to shut up and keep rowing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The seawater surged down the streets. On either side, huge, weed-encrusted buildings boiled slowly out of the surf.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Father and son fought to keep some way on the boat as it was dragged along. And, since lesson one in the art of rowing is that you do it while looking the wrong way, they didn't see the other boat…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You lunatic!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Foolish man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't you touch that building! This country belongs to Ankh-Morpork!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two boats spun in a temporary whirlpool.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I claim this land in the name of the Seriph of Al-Khali!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We saw it first! Les, you tell him we saw it first!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We saw it first before you saw it first!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Les, you saw him, he tried to hit me with that oar!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But Dad, you're waving that trident—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See the untrustworthy way he attacks us, Akhan!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a grinding noise from under the keel of both boats and they began to tip as they settled into the sea-bottom ooze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, Father, there is an interesting statue—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He has set his foot on Klatchian soil! The squid thief!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get those filthy sandals off Ankh-Morporkian territory!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">Dad</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two fishermen stopped screaming at each other, mainly in order to get their breath back. Crabs scuttled away. Water drained between the patches of weed, carving runnels in the grey silt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Father, look, there's still coloured tiles on the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mine!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Mine</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les caught Akhan's eye. They exchanged a very brief glance which was nevertheless modulated with a considerable amount of information, beginning with the sheer galactic-sized embarrassment of having parents and working up from there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dad, we don't <em class="calibre9">have</em> to—” Les began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You shut up! It's your future I'm thinking about, my lad—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but who <em class="calibre9">cares</em> who saw it first, Dad? We're both hundreds of miles from home! I mean, who's going to <em class="calibre9">know</em>, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two squid fishermen glared at one another.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dripping buildings rose above them. There were holes that might well have been doorways, and glassless apertures that could have been windows, but all was darkness within. Now and again, Les fancied he could hear something slithering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid Jackson coughed. “The lad's right,” he muttered. “Daft to argue. Just the four of us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed,” said Arif.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They backed away, each man carefully watching the other. Then, so closely that it was a chorus, they both yelled: “Grab the boat!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a confused couple of moments and then each pair, boat carried over their heads, ran and slithered along the muddy streets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They had to stop and come back, with mutual cries of “A kidnapper as <em class="calibre9">well</em>, eh?”, to get the right sons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As every student of exploration knows, the prize goes not to the explorer who first sets foot upon the virgin soil but to the one who gets that foot home first. If it is still attached to his leg, this is a bonus.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The weathercocks of Ankh-Morpork creaked around in the wind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Very few of them were in fact representations of <em class="calibre9">Avis domestica</em>. There were various dragons, fish and miscellaneous animals. On the roof of the Assassins' Guild a silhouette of one of the members squeaked into a new position, cloak and dagger at the ready. On the Beggars' Guild a tin beggar's hand asked the wind for a quarter. On the Butchers' Guild a copper pig sniffed the air. On the roof of the Thieves' Guild a real if rather decreased unlicensed thief turned gently, which shows what you are capable of if you try, or at least if you try stealing without a licence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The one on the library dome of Unseen University was running slow and wouldn't show the change for half an hour yet, but the smell of the sea drifted over the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a tradition of soap-box public speaking in Sator Square. “Speaking” was stretching a point to cover the ranters, haranguers and occasional selfabsorbed mumblers that spaced themselves at intervals amongst the crowds. And, traditionally, people said whatever was on their minds and at the top of their voices. The Patrician, it was said, looked kindly on the custom. He did. And very closely, too. He probably had someone make notes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So did the Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't spying Commander Vimes told himself. Spying was when you crept around peeking in windows. It wasn't spying when you had to stand back a bit so that you weren't deafened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached out without paying attention and struck a match on Sergeant Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dat was me, sir,” said the troll reproachfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sergeant,” said Vimes, lighting his cigar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It not a problem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They returned their attention to the speakers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It's the wind, thought Vimes. It's bringing something new…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Usually the speakers dealt with all kinds of subjects, many of them on the cusp of sanity or somewhere in the peaceful valleys on the other side. But now they were all monomaniacs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—time they were taught a lesson!” screamed the nearest one. “Why don't our so-called masters listen to the voice of the people? Ankh-Morpork has had enough of these swaggering brigands! They steal our fish, they steal our trade and now they're stealing our land!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It would have been better if people had cheered, Vimes thought. People generally cheered the speakers indiscriminately, to egg them on. But the crowd around this man just seemed to nod approval. He thought: they're actually <em class="calibre9">thinking</em> about what he said…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They stole my merchandise!” shouted a speaker opposite him. “It's a pirate bloody empire! I was boarded! In Ankh-Morpork waters!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a general self-righteous muttering.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did they steal, Mr Jenkins?” said a voice from the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A cargo of fine silks!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd hissed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah? Not dried fish offal and condemned meat, then? That's your normal cargo, I believe.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Jenkins strained to look for the speaker.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine silks!” he said. “And what does the city care about that? Nothing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were shouts of “Shame!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Has the city been told?” said the enquiring voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People started to crane their heads. And then the crowd opened a little, to reveal the figure of Commander Vimes of the City Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's… I…” Jenkins began. “Er… I…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I care,” said Vimes calmly. “Shouldn't be too hard to track down a cargo of fine silks that stink of fish guts.” There was laughter. Ankh-Morpork people always like some variety in their street theatre.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes apparently spoke to Sergeant Detritus, while keeping his gaze locked on Jenkins. “Detritus, just you go along with Mr Jenkins here, will you? His ship is the <em class="calibre9">Milka</em>, I believe. He'll show you all the lading bills and manifests and receipts and things, and then we can sort him out in jig time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a clang as Detritus's huge hand came to rest against his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… er… you can't,” said Jenkins quickly. “They… er… stole the paperwork as well…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? So they can take the stuff back to the shop if it doesn't fit?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… anyway, the ship's sailed. Yes! Sailed! Got to try and recoup my losses, you know!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sailed? Without its captain?” said Vimes. “So Mr Scoplett is in charge? Your first officer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn!” said Vimes, snapping his fingers theatrically. “That man we've got in the cells on a charge of being Naughtily Drunk last night… we're going to have to charge him with impersonation as well, then? I don't know, more blasted paperwork, the stuff just piles up…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Jenkins tried to look away but Vimes's stare kept pulling him back. The occasional tremble of a lip suggested that he was preparing a riposte, but he was bright enough to spot that Vimes's grin was as funny as the one that moves very fast towards drowning men. And has a fin on top.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Jenkins made a wise decision, and got down. “I'll.… er… I'll go and sort… I'd better go and… er…” he said, and pushed his way through the mob, which waited a little while to see if anything interesting was going to happen and then, disappointed, sought out other entertainment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want I should go ad have a look at his boat?” said Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sergeant. There won't be any silk, and there won't be any paperwork. There won't be anything except a lingering aroma of fish guts.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wow, dem damn Klatchians steals everything that ain't nailed down, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook his head and strolled on. “They don't have trolls in Klatch, do they?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir. It's der heat. Troll brains don't work in der heat. If I was to go to Klatch,” said Detritus, his knuckles making little bink-bink noises as he dragged them over the cobbles, “I'd be really <em class="calibre9">stoopid</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Detritus?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never go to Klatch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another speaker was attracting a much larger crowd. He stood in front of a large banner that proclaimed: GREASY FORANE HANDS OFF LESHP.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leshp,” said Detritus. “Now <em class="calibre9">dere's</em> a name that ain't got its teef in.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the land that came back up from under the sea last week,” said Vimes despondently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They listened while the speaker proclaimed that Ankh-Morpork had a duty to protect its kith and kin on the new land. Detritus looked puzzled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How come dere's dese kiff and kin on dere when it only just come up from under der water?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good question,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dey been holding dere breath?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I doubt it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more in the air than the salt of the sea, Vimes thought. There was some other current. He could sense it. Suddenly, the problem was Klatch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork had been at peace with Klatch, or at least in a state of non-war, for almost a century. It was, after all, the neighbouring country.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Neighbours… hah! But what did that mean? The Watch could tell you a thing or two about neighbours. So could lawyers, especially the real rich ones to whom “neighbour” meant a man who'd sue for twenty years over a strip of garden two inches wide. Peopled live for ages side by side, nodding at one another amicably on their way to work every day, and then some trivial thing would happen and someone would be having a garden fork removed from their ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now some damn rock had risen up out of the sea and everyone was acting as if Klatch had let its dog bark all night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Aagragaah</em>,” said Detritus, mournfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't mind me, just don't spit it on my boot,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It mean—” Detritus waved a huge hand, “like… dem things, what only comes in…” he paused and looked at his fingers, while his lips moved “…fours. Aagragaah. It mean lit'rally der time when you see dem little pebbles and you jus' <em class="calibre9">know</em> dere's gonna be a great big landslide on toppa you and it already too late to run. Dat moment, dat's aagragaah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's own lips moved. “<em class="calibre9">Forebodings</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dat's der bunny.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where does the word come from?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus shrugged. “Maybe it named after der soun' you make just as a t'ousand ton of rock hit you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Forebodings…” Vimes rubbed his chin. “Yeah. Well, I've got plenty of them…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Landslides and avalanches, he thought. All the little snowflakes land, light as a feather – and suddenly the whole side of a mountain is moving…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus looked at him slyly. “I know everyone say ‘Dem two short planks, dey're as fick as Detritus’,” he said, “but I know which way der wind is blowin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at his sergeant with a new respect.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can spot it, can you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The troll's finger tapped his helmet twice, knowingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It pretty obvious,” he said. “You see up on der roofs dem little chickies and dragons and stuff? And dat poor bugger on der Fieves' Guild? You just has to watch 'em. <em class="calibre9">Dey</em> know. Beats me how dey always pointin' der right way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes relaxed a little. Detritus's intelligence wasn't too bad for a troll, falling somewhere between a cuttlefish and a linedancer, but you could rely on him not to let it slow him down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus winked. “An' it look to me like dat time when you go an' find a big club and listen to grandad tellin' you how he beat up all dem dwarfs when he was a boy,” he said. “Somethin' in der wind, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yes…” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a fluttering above him. He sighed. A message was coming in.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On a pigeon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But they'd tried everything else, hadn't they? Swamp dragons tended to explode in the air, imps ate the messages and the semaphore helmets had not been a success, especially in high winds. And then Corporal Littlebottom had pointed out that Ankh-Morpork's pigeons were, because of many centuries of depredation by the city's gargoyle population, considerably more intelligent than most pigeons, although Vimes considered that this was not difficult because there were things growing on old damp bread that were more intelligent than most pigeons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took a handful of corn out of his pocket. The pigeon, obedient to its careful training, settled on his shoulder. In obedience to internal pressures, it relieved itself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, we've got to find something better,” said Vimes, as he unwrapped the message. “Every time we send a message to Constable Downspout he eats it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, he <em class="calibre9">are</em> a gargoyle,” said Detritus. “He fink it lunch arriving.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh,” said Vimes, “his lordship requires my attendance. How nice.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari looked attentive, because he'd always found that listening keenly to people tended to put them off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And at meetings like this, when he was advised by the leaders of the city, he listened with great care because what people said was what they wanted him to hear. He paid a lot of attention to the spaces outside the words, though. That's where the things were that they hoped he didn't know and didn't want him to find out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Currently he was paying attention to the things that Lord Downey of the Assassins' Guild was failing to say in a lengthy exposition of the Guild's high level of training and value to the city. The voice, eventually, came to a stop in the face of Vetinari's aggressive listening.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, Lord Downey,” he said. “I'm sure we shall all be able to sleep a lot more uneasily for knowing all that. Just one minor point… I believe the word ‘assassin’ actually comes from Klatch?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… indeed…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I believe also that many of your students are, as it turns out, from Klatch and its neighbouring countries?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The unrivalled quality of our education…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite so. What you are telling me, in point of fact, is that their assassins have been doing it longer, know their way around our city and have had their traditional skills honed by you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician turned to Mr Burleigh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We surely have superiority in weapons, Mr Burleigh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. Say what you like about dwarfs, but we've been turning out some superb stuff lately,” said the President of the Guild of Armourers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. That at least is some comfort.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Burleigh. He looked wretched. “However, the thing about weapons manufacture… the important thing…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe you are about to say that the important thing about the business of weaponry is that it is a business,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Burleigh looked as though he'd been let off the hook on to a bigger hook.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That, in fact, the weapons are for selling.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… exactly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To anyone who wishes to buy them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Regardless of the use to which they are going to be put?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The armaments manufacturer looked affronted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon me? Of <em class="calibre9">course</em>. They're <em class="calibre9">weapons</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I suspect that in recent years a very lucrative market has been Klatch?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes… the Seriph needs them to pacify the outlying regions…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician held up his hand. Drumknott, his clerk, gave him a piece of paper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The ‘Great Leveller’ Cart-Mounted Ten-Bank 500-pound Crossbow?” he said. “And, let me see… the ‘Meteor’ Automated Throwing Star Hurler, Decapitates at Twenty Paces, Money Back If Not Completely Decapitated?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you ever heard of the D'regs, my lord?” said Burleigh. “They say the only way to pacify one of <em class="calibre9">them</em> is to hit him repeatedly with an axe and bury what's left under a rock. And even then, choose a heavy rock.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician seemed to be staring at a large drawing of the “Dervish” Mk III Razor-Wire Bolas. There was a painful silence. Burleigh tried to fill it up, always a bad mistake.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Besides, we provide much-needed jobs in Ankh-Morpork,” he murmured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exporting these weapons to other countries,” said Lord Vetinari. He handed the paper back and fixed Burleigh with a friendly smile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm very pleased to see that the industry has done so well,” he said. “I will bear this particularly in mind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He placed his hands together carefully. “The situation is grave, gentlemen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose?” said Mr Burleigh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh… I was thinking about something else, my lord…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was referring to the fact that a number of our citizens have gone out to this wretched island. As have, I understand, a number of Klatchians.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why are our people going out there?” said Mr Boggis of the Thieves' Guild.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because they are showing a brisk pioneering spirit and seeking wealth and… additional wealth in a new land,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's in it for the Klatchians?” said Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, they've gone out there because they are a bunch of unprincipled opportunists always ready to grab something for nothing,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A masterly summation, if I may say so, my lord,” said Mr Burleigh, who felt he had some ground to make up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician looked down again at his notes. “Oh, I do beg your pardon,” he said, “I seem to have read those last two sentences in the wrong order… Mr Slant, I believe you have something to say here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The president of the Guild of Lawyers cleared his throat. The sound was like a death rattle and technically it was, since the man had been a zombie for several hundred years although historical accounts suggested that the only difference dying had made to Mr Slant was that he'd started to work through his lunch break.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, indeed,” he said, opening a large legal tome. “The history of the city of Leshp and its surrounding country is a little obscure. It is known to have been above the sea almost a thousand years ago, however, when records suggest that it was considered part of the Ankh-Morpork empire—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is the nature of these records and do they tell us who was doing the considering?” said the Patrician. The door opened and Vimes stepped in. “Ah, commander, do take a seat. Continue, Mr Slant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The zombie did not like interruptions. He coughed again. “The records relating to the lost country date back several hundred years, my lord. And they are of course <em class="calibre9">our</em> records.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only ours?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hardly see how any others could apply,” said Mr Slant severely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Klatchian ones, for example?” said Vimes, from the far end of the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir Samuel, the Klatchian language does not even have a word for lawyer,” said Mr Slant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Doesn't it?” said Vimes. “Good for them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is our view,” said Slant, turning his chair slightly so that he did not have to look at Vimes, “that the new land is ours by Eminent Domain, Extra-Territoriality and, most importantly, <em class="calibre9">Acquiris Quodcumque Rapis</em>. I am given to understand that it was one of our fishermen who first set foot on it this time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hear the Klatchians claim that it was one of <em class="calibre9">their</em> fishermen,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At the end of the table Vimes's lips were moving. <em class="calibre9">Let's see, Acquiris</em>… “‘You get what you grab’?” he said aloud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're not going to take their word for it, are we?” said Slant, pointedly ignoring him. “Excuse me, my lord, but I don't believe that proud Ankh-Morpork is told what to do by a bunch of thieves with towels on their heads.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, indeed! It's about time Johnny Klatchian was taught a lesson,” said Lord Selachii. “Remember all that business last year with the cabbages? Ten damn boatloads they wouldn't accept!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And everyone knows caterpillars <em class="calibre9">add</em> to the flavour,” said Vimes, more or less to himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician shot him a glance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right!” said Selachii. “Good honest protein! And you remember all that trouble Captain Jenkins had over that cargo of mutton? They were going to <em class="calibre9">imprison</em> him! In a <em class="calibre9">Klatchian</em> jail!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Surely not? Meat is at its best when it's going green,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not as if it'd taste any different under all that curry,” said Burleigh. “I was at a dinner in their embassy once, and do you know what they made me eat? It was a sheep's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, gentlemen,” said Vimes, standing up. “There are some urgent matters I must deal with.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He nodded to the Patrician and hurried out of the room. He shut the door behind him and took a breath of fresh air, although right now he'd have happily inhaled deeply in a tannery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Littlebottom stood up and looked at him expectantly. She had been sitting next to a box, which cooed peacefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something's up. Run down to… I mean, send a pigeon down to the Yard,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All leave is cancelled as of now and I want to see every officer, and I <em class="calibre9">mean</em> every officer, at the Yard at, oh, let's say six o'clock.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir. That might mean an extra pigeon unless I can write small enough.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Littlebottom hurried off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced out of the window. There was always a certain amount of activity outside the palace but today there was… not so much a crowd as, just, rather more people than you normally saw, hanging around. As if they were waiting for something.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Klatch!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Everyone <em class="calibre9">knows</em> it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Old Detritus was right. You could hear the little pebbles bouncing. It's not just a few fishermen having a scrap, it's a hundred years of… well, like two big men trying to fit in one small room, trying to be polite about it, and then one day one of them just has to stretch and pretty soon they're both smashing the furniture.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But it couldn't really happen, could it? From what he'd heard, the present Seriph was a competent man who was mostly concerned with pacifying the rowdy edges of his empire. And there were Klatchians living in Ankh-Morpork, for heaven's sake! There were Klatchians born in Ankh-Morpork. You saw some lad with a face that'd got camels written all over it, and when he opened his mouth it'd turn out he had an Ankhian accent so thick you could float rocks. Oh, there's all the jokes about funny food and foreigners, but surely…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Not very funny jokes, come to think of it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When you hear the bang, there's no time to wonder how long the little fuse has been fizzing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were raised voices when he went back into the Rats Chamber.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Because</em>, Lord Selachii,” the Patrician was saying, “these are <em class="calibre9">not</em> the old days. It is no longer considered… <em class="calibre9">nice</em>… to send a warship over there to, as you put it, show Johnny Foreigner the error of his ways. For one thing, we haven't had any warships since the <em class="calibre9">Mary</em>–<em class="calibre9">Jane</em> sank four hundred years ago. And times have changed. These days, the whole world watches. And, my lord, you are no longer allowed to say ‘What're you lookin' at?’ and black their eyes.” He leaned back. “There's Chimeria, and Khanli, and Ephebe, and Tsort. And Muntab, these days, too. And Omnia. Some of these are powerful nations, gentlemen. Many of them don't like Klatch's current expansionist outlook, but they don't like us much, either.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whyever not?” said Lord Selachii.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, because during our history those we haven't occupied we've tended to wage war on,” said Lord Vetinari. “For some reason the slaughter of thousands of people tends to stick in the memory.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">history</em>,” said Lord Selachii. “That's all in the past!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A good place for history, agreed,” said the Patrician solemnly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant: why don't they like us now? Do we owe them money?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. Mostly they owe <em class="calibre9">us</em> money. Which is, of course, a far better reason for their dislike.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How about Sto Lat and Pseudopolis and the other cities?” said Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They don't like us much, either.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not? I mean t'say, we do share a common heritage,” said Lord Selachii.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, my lord, but that common heritage largely consists of having had wars with one another,” said the Patrician. “I can't see much support there. Which is a little unfortunate because we do not, in fact, have an army. I am not, of course, a military man but I believe that one of those is generally considered vital to the successful prosecution of a war.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked along the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The fact <em class="calibre9">is</em>” he went on, “that Ankh-Morpork has been violently against a standing army.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We all know <em class="calibre9">why</em> people don't trust an army,” said Lord Downey. “A lot of armed men, standing around with nothing to do… they start to get ideas…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saw the heads turn towards him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My word,” he said, with glassy brightness, “can this be a reference to ‘Old Stoneface’ Vimes, who led the city's militia in a revolt against the rule of a tyrannical monarch in an effort to bring some sort of freedom and justice to the place? I do believe it is! And was he Commander of the Watch at the time? Good heavens, yes, as a matter of fact he was! Was he hanged and dismembered and buried in five graves? And is he a distant ancestor of the current Commander? My word, the coincidences just <em class="calibre9">pile</em> up, don't they?” His voice went from manic cheerfulness to a growl. “Right! That's got <em class="calibre9">that</em> over with. Now – has anyone got any point they wish to make?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a general shifting of position and a group clearing of throats.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about mercenaries?” said Boggis.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The problem with mercenaries,” said the Patrician, “is that they need to be paid to start fighting. And, unless you are very lucky, you end up paying them even more to stop—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Selachii thumped the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well, then, by jingo!” he snarled. “Alone!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We could certainly do with one,” said Lord Vetinari. “We need the money. I was about to say that we cannot <em class="calibre9">afford</em> mercenaries.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How can this be?” said Lord Downey. “Don't we pay our taxes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, I thought we might come to that,” said Lord Vetinari. He raised his hand and, on cue again, his clerk placed a piece of paper in it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let me see now… ah yes. Guild of Assassins… Gross earnings in the last year: AM$13,207,048. Taxes paid in the last year: forty-seven dollars, twenty-two pence and what on examination turned out to be a Hershebian half-<em class="calibre9">dong</em>, worth one-eighth of a penny.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's all perfectly legal! The Guild of Accountants—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah yes. Guild of Accountants: gross earnings AM$7,999,011. Taxes paid: nil. But, ah yes, I see they applied for a rebate of AM$200,000.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what we received, I may say, included a Hershebian half-<em class="calibre9">dong</em>,” said Mr Frostrip of the Guild of Accountants.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What goes around comes around” said Vetinari calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tossed the paper aside. “Taxation, gentlemen, is very much like dairy farming The task is to extract the maximum amount of milk with the minimum of moo. And I am afraid to say that these days all I get is moo.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you telling us that Ankh-Morpork is <em class="calibre9">bankrupt</em>?” said Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. While, at the same time, full of rich people. I trust they have been spending their good fortune on swords.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you have <em class="calibre9">allowed</em> this wholesale tax avoidance?” said Lord Selachii.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, the taxes haven't been avoided,” said Lord Vetinari. “Or even evaded. They just haven't been paid.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is a disgusting state of affairs!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician raised his eyebrows. “Commander Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you be so good as to assemble a squad of your most experienced men, liaise with the tax gatherers and obtain the accumulated back taxes, please? My clerk here will give you a list of the prime defaulters.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir. And if they resist, sir?” said Vimes, smiling nastily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, how can they resist, commander? This is the will of our civic leaders.” He took the paper his clerk proffered. “Let me see, now. Top of the list—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Selachii coughed hurriedly. “Far too late for that sort of nonsense now,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Water under the bridge,” said Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dead and buried,” said Mr Slant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I paid mine,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So let me recap, then,” said Vetinari. “I don't think anyone wants to see two grown nations scrapping over a piece of rock. We don't want to fight, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“By jingo, if we do, we'll show those—” Lord Selachii began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have no ships. We have no men. We have no money, too,” said Lord Vetinari. “Of course, we have the art of diplomacy. It is amazing what you can do with the right words.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Unfortunately, the right words are more readily listened to if you also have a sharp stick,” said Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Selachii slapped the table. “We don't have to <em class="calibre9">talk</em> to these people! My lords… gentlemen… it's up to us to show them we won't be pushed around! We must re-form the regiments!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">private</em> armies?” said Vimes. “Under the command of someone whose fitness for it lies in the fact that he can afford to pay for a thousand funny hats?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone leaned forward, halfway along the table. Up to that moment Vimes had thought he was asleep, and when Lord Rust spoke it was, indeed, in a sort of yawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose <em class="calibre9">fitness</em>, Mister Vimes, lies in a thousand years of breeding for leadership,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The “Mister” twisted in Vimes's chest. He knew he was a mister, would always be a mister, was probably a blueprint for mistership, but he'd be damned if he wouldn't be Sir Samuel to someone who pronounced years as “hyahs”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, good breeding,” he said. “No, sorry, don't have any of <em class="calibre9">that</em>, if that's what you need to get your own men killed by sheer—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gentlemen, please,” said the Patrician. He shook his head. “Let's have no fighting, please. This is, after all, a council of war. As for re-forming the regiments, well, this is of course your ancient right. The supplying of armed men in times of need is one of the duties of a gentleman. History is on your side. The precedents are clear enough, I can't go against them. I have to say I cannot afford to.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're going to let them play soldiers?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Commander Vimes,” said Mr Burleigh, smiling. “As a military man yourself, you must—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sometimes people can attract attention by shouting. They might opt for thumping a table, or even take a swing at someone else. But Vimes achieved the effect by freezing, by simply doing nothing. The chill radiated off him. Lines in his face locked like a statue.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I am not a military man</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then Burleigh made the mistake of trying to grin disarmingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, commander, the helmet and armour and everything… It's really all the same in the end, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">No</em>. It's not.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gentlemen…” Lord Vetinari put his hands flat on the table, a sign that the meeting had ended. “I can only repeat that tomorrow I shall be discussing the matter with Prince Khufurah—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've heard good reports of him,” said Lord Rust. “Strict but fair. One can only admire what he's doing in some of those backward regions. A most—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. You are thinking of Prince Cadram,” said Lord Vetinari “Khufurah is the younger brother. He is arriving here as his brother's special envoy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Him? <em class="calibre9">That</em> one? The man's a wastrel! A cheat! A liar! They say he takes bri—” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you for your diplomatic input, Lord Rust,” said the Patrician. “We must deal with facts as they are. There is always a way. Our nations have many interests in common. And of course it says a lot for the seriousness with which Cadram is treating this matter that he is sending his own brother to deal with it. It's a nod towards the international community.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A Klatchian bigwig is coming <em class="calibre9">here</em>?” said Vimes. “No one told me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Strange as it may seem, Sir Samuel, I am occasionally capable of governing this city for minutes at a time without seeking your advice and guidance.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant there's a lot of anti-Klatchian feeling around—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">A really greasy piece of work</em>–” Lord Rust whispered to Mr Boggis, in that special aristocratic whisper that carries to the rafters. “<em class="calibre9">It's an insult to send him here</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am sure that you will see to it that the streets are safe to walk, Vimes,” said the Patrician sharply. “I know you pride yourself on that sort of thing. Officially he's here because the wizards have invited him to their big award ceremony. An honorary doctorate, that sort of thing. And one of their lunches afterwards. I do like negotiating with people after the faculty of Unseen University have entertained them to lunch. They tend not to move about much and they'll agree to practically anything if they think there's a chance of a stomach powder and a small glass of water. And now, gentlemen… if you will excuse me…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lords and leaders departed in ones and twos, talking quietly as they walked out into the hall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician shuffled his papers into order, running a thin finger along each edge of the pile, and then looked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You appear to be casting a shadow, commander.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not <em class="calibre9">really</em> going to allow them to re-form the regiments, are you?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There is absolutely no law against it, Vimes. And it will keep them occupied. Every official gentleman is entitled, in fact I believe used to be <em class="calibre9">required</em>, to raise men when the city required it. And, of course, any citizen has the right to bear arms. Bear that in mind, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Arms is one thing. Holding weapons in 'em and playing soldiers is another.” Vimes put his knuckles on the table and leaned forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You see, sir,” he said, “I can't help but think that over there in Klatch a bunch of idiots are doing the same thing. They're saying to the Seriph ‘It's time to sort out those devils in Ankh-Morpork, offendi’. And when a lot of people are running around with weapons and talking daft stuff about war, accidents happen. Have you ever been in a pub when everyone goes armed? Oh, things are a little polite at first, I'll grant you, and then some twerp drinks out of the wrong mug or picks up someone else's change by mistake and five minutes later you're picking noses out of the beer nuts—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician looked down at Vimes's knuckles and stared fixedly until Vimes removed them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes, you will be at the wizards' Convivium tomorrow. I sent you a memo about it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never—” A vision of the piles of unread paperwork on Vimes's desk loomed treacherously in his mind. “Ah,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Commander of the Watch leads the procession in full dress uniform. It's an ancient custom.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? Walk in front of everyone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. Very… civic. As I'm sure you recall. It demonstrates the friendly alliance between the University and the civil government which, I may say, seems to consist of their promising to do anything we ask provided we promise not to ask them to do anything. Anyway, it is your duty. Tradition decrees it. And Lady Sybil has agreed to see to it that you are there with a crisp bright shining morning face.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a deep breath. “You asked my <em class="calibre9">wife</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly. She is very proud of you. She believes you are capable of great things, Vimes. She must be a great comfort to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I… I mean, I… yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excellent. Oh, just one other thing, Vimes. I do have the Assassins and the Thieves in agreement on this, but to cover <em class="calibre9">all</em> eventualities… I would consider it a favour if you could see to it that no one throws eggs or something at the Prince. That sort of thing always upsets people.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The two sides watched each other carefully. They were old enemies. They had tested strengths many a time, had tasted defeat and victory, had contested turf. But this time it would go all the way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Knuckles whitened. Boots scraped impatiently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Carrot bounced the ball once or twice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, lads, one more try, eh? And this time, no horseplay. William, what are you eating?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Artful Nudger scowled. <em class="calibre9">No</em>–<em class="calibre9">one</em> knew his name. Kids he'd grown up with didn't know his name. His mother, if he ever found out who she was, probably didn't know his name. But Carrot had found out somehow. If anyone else had called him “William” they'd be looking for their ear. In their mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Chewing gum, mister.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you brought enough for everybody?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, mister.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then put it away, there's a good chap. Now, let's– Gavin, what's that up your sleeve?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The one known as Scumbag Gav didn't bother to argue.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s a knife, Mr Carrot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I <em class="calibre9">bet</em> you brought enough for everybody, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'sright, mister.” Scumbag grinned. He was ten.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go on, put them on the heap with the others…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Shoe looked over the wall in horror. There were about fifty youths in the wide alleyway. Average age in years, about eleven. Average age in cynicism and malevolent evil: about 163. Although Ankh-Morpork football doesn't usually have goals in the normal sense, two had been nevertheless made at each end of the alley using the time-honoured method of piling up things to mark where the posts would be.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Two piles: one of knives, one of blunt instruments.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the middle of the boys, who were wearing the colours of some of the nastier street gangs, Captain Carrot was bouncing an inflated pig's bladder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Shoe wondered if he ought to go and get help, but the man seemed quite as ease.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, captain?” he ventured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello, Reg. We were just having a friendly game of football. This is Constable Shoe, lads.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fifty pairs of eyes said: We'll remember your face, copper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg edged around the wall and the eyes noted the arrow which had gone straight through his breastplate and protruded several inches from his back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's been a bit of trouble, sir,” said Reg. “I thought I'd better fetch you. It's a hostage situation…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll come right away. OK, lads, sorry about this. Play amongst yourselves, will you? And I hope I'll see you all on Tuesday for the sing-song and sausage sizzle.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, mister,” said the Artful Nudger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And Corporal Angua will see if she can teach you the campfire howl.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right,” said Scumbag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But what do we do before we part?” said Carrot expectantly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The bloods of the Skats and the Mohocks looked bashfully at one another. Usually they were nervous of nothing, it being a banishment matter to show fear in any circumstances. But when they'd variously drawn up the clan rules, no one had ever thought there'd be someone like Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Glaring at one another with I'll-kill-you-if-you-ever-mention-this expressions, they all raised the index fingers of both hands to the level of their ears and chorused: “Wib wib wib.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wob wob wob,” Carrot replied heartily. “OK Reg, let's go.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How'd you do that, captain?” said Constable Shoe, as the watchmen hurried off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you just raise both fingers like <em class="calibre9">this</em>,” said Carrot. “But I'd be obliged if you don't tell anyone, because it's meant to be a secret sig—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they're thugs, captain! Young killers! Villains!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, they're a bit cheeky, but nice enough boys undeneath, when you take the time to understand—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard they never give anyone enough <em class="calibre9">time</em> to understand! Does Mr Vimes know you're doing this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He sort of knows, yes. I said I'd like to start a club for the street kids and he said it was fine provided I took them camping on the edge of some really sheer cliff somewhere in a high wind. But he always says things like that. And I'm sure we wouldn't have him any other way. Now, where are these hostages?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's at Vortin's again, captain. But it's… sort of worse than that…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind them, the Skats and the Mohocks looked at one another warily. Then they picked up their weapons and edged away with care. It's not that we don't want to fight, their manner said. It's just that we've got better things to do right now, and so we're going to go away and find out what they are.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Unusually for the docks, there was not a great deal of shouting and general conversation. People were too busy thinking about money.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs leaned against a stack of timber and watched a man very carefully painting the name <em class="calibre9">Pride of Ankh-Morpork</em> on the prow of a ship. At some point he'd realize that he'd left out the “e”, and they were idly looking forward to this modest entertainment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You ever been to sea, sarge?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah, not me!” said the sergeant. “Don't go flogging the oggin, lad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't,” said Nobby. “I have never flogged any oggin. Never in my entire life have I flogged oggin.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've always been very clean in that respect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Except you don't know what flogging the oggin means, do you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It means going to sea. You can't bloody trust the sea. When I was a little lad I had this book about this little kid, he turned into a mermaid, sort of thing, and he lived down the bottom of the sea—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—the oggin—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, and it was all nice talking fishes and pink seashells and stuff, and then I went on my holidays to Quirm and I saw the sea, and I thought: here goes, and if our ma hadn't been quick on her feet I don't know what would have happened. I mean, the kid in the book could breathe under the sea, so how was I to know? It's all bloody <em class="calibre9">lies</em> about the sea. It's just all yuk with lobsters in it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My mum's uncle was a sailor” said Nobby. “But after the big plague he got press-ganged. Bunch of farmers got him drunk, he woke up next morning tied to a plough.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They lounged some more.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like we're going to be in a fight, sarge,” said Nobby, as the painter very carefully started on the final “k”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Won't last long. Lots of cowards, the Klatchians,” said Colon. “The moment they taste a bit of cold steel they're legging it away over the sand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon had had a broad education. He'd been to the School of My Dad Always Said, the College of It Stands to Reason, and was now a postgraduate student at the University of What Some Bloke In the Pub Told Me.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shouldn't be any trouble to sort out, then?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And o'course, they're not the same colour as what we are,” said Colon. “Well… as me, anyway,” he added, in view of the various hues of Corporal Nobbs. There was probably no one alive who was the same colour as Corporal Nobbs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Constable Visit's pretty brown,” said Nobby. “I never seen him run away. If there's a chance of giving someone a religious pamphlet ole Washpot's after them like a terrier.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, but Omnians are more like us,” said Colon. “Bit weird but, basic'ly, just the same as us underneath. No, the way you can tell a Klatchian is, you look an' see if he uses a lot of words beginning with ‘al’, right? “'Cos that's a dead giveaway. They invented all the words starting with ‘al’. That's how you can tell they're Klatchian. Like al-cohol, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They invented beer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's clever.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wouldn't call it clever,” said Sergeant Colon, realizing too late that he'd made a tactical error. “More, luck, I'd say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What else did they do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, there's…” Colon racked his brains. “There's al-gebra. That's like sums with letters. For… for people whose brains aren't clever enough for numbers, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that a fact?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Colon. “In fact,” he went on, a little more assertively now he could see a way ahead, “I heard this wizard down the University say that the Klatchians invented nothing. That was their great contribution to maffs, he said. I said ‘What?’ an' he said, they come up with zero.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dun't sound that clever to me,” said Nobby. “Anyone could invent nothing. I ain't invented anything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My point exactly,” said Colon. “I told him, it was people who invented numbers like four and, and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—seven—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—right, who were the geniuses. <em class="calibre9">Nothing</em> didn't need inventing. It was just there. They probably just found it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's having all that desert,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! Good point. Desert. Which, as everyone knows, is basically nothing. Nothing's a natural resource to them. It stands to reason. Whereas we're more civilized, see, and we got a lot more stuff around to count, so we invented numbers. It's like… well, they say the Klatchians invented astronomy—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Al-tronomy,” said Nobby helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no… no, Nobby, I reckon they'd discovered esses by then, probably nicked 'em off'f us… anyway, they were <em class="calibre9">bound</em> to invent astronomy, 'cos there's bugger all else for them to look at but the sky. Anyone can look at the stars and give 'em names. 's going it a bit to call it <em class="calibre9">inventing</em>, in any case. We don't go around saying we've <em class="calibre9">invented</em> something just because we had a quick dekko at it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard where they've got a lot of odd gods,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, <em class="calibre9">and</em> mad priests,” said Colon. “Foaming at the mouth, half of 'em. Believe all kinds of loony things.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They watched the painter in silence for a moment. Colon was dreading the question that came.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So how <em class="calibre9">exactly</em> are they different from ours, then?” said Nobby. “I mean, some of <em class="calibre9">our</em> priests are—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hope you ain't being <em class="calibre9">unpatriotic</em>,” said Colon severely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, of course not. I was just asking. I can see where they'd be a lot worse than ours, being foreign and everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And of course they're all mad for fighting,” said Colon. “Vicious buggers with all those curvy swords of theirs.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean, like they viciously attack you while cowardly running away after tasting cold steel?” said Nobby, who sometimes had a treacherously good memory for detail.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't trust 'em, like I said. And they burp hugely after meals.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… so do you, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but I don't pretend it's <em class="calibre9">polite</em>, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's certainly a good job there's you around to explain things, sarge,” said Nobby. “It's amazing the stuff you know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I surprise myself, sometimes,” said Colon modestly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The painter of the ship leaned back to admire his work. They heard him give a heartfelt little groan, and both of them nodded in satisfaction.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Hostage negotiations were always tricky, Carrot had learned. It paid not to rush things. Let the other man talk when he was ready.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So he was whiling away the time sitting behind the upturned cart they were using as a shield from the occasional random arrow and writing his letter home. The exercise was carried out with much frowning, sucking of the pencil and what Commander Vimes called a ballistic approach to spelling and punctuation.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Dere Mum and Dade,</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">I hope this letter finds you in good health as I am also. Thank you for the big parcel of dwarf bread you sent me I have sharred it with the other dwarfs on the Watch and they say it is better even than Ironcrufts (“T'Bread Wi' T'Edge”) and you carn't beat the taste of a home-forged loaf, so well done mum.</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Things are going well with the Wolf Pack that I have told you about but Cmdr. Vimes is not happy, I told him they were good lads at heart and it would help them to learn the ways of Natchure and the Wilderness and he said hah they know them already that is the trouble. But he gave me $5 to buy a football which proves he cares deep down.</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">We have more new faeces in the Watch which is just as well with this truble with Klatch, it is all looking very Grave, I feel it is the Clam before the Storm and no mistake.</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">I must brake off now because some robbers have broke into Vortin's Dimond Warehouse and have taken Corporal Angua hostage. I fear there may be terrible bloodshed so,</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">I remain,</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Yr. Loving Son,</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Carrot Ironfoundersson (Captain)</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">ps I will write again tomorrow</em>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot folded the letter carefully and slipped it under his breastplate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think they have had long enough to consider our suggestion, constable. What's next on the list?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Shoe leafed through a file of grubby paper and pulled out another sheet</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, we're down to offences of stealing pennies off blind beggars now,” he said. “Oh, no, this is a good one…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot took the sheet in one hand and megaphone in the other and raised his head carefully over the edge of the cart.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning again!” he said brightly. “We've found another one. Theft of jewellery from—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes! Yes! We did it!” shouted a voice from the building.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? I haven't even said what it was yet,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never mind, we <em class="calibre9">did</em> it! Now can we come out, please?” There was another sound behind the voice. It sounded like a low, continuous growl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think you ought to be able to tell me what you stole,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… rings? Gold rings?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, no rings mentioned.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pearl necklace? Yes, that's what—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Getting warmer, but no.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Earrings?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ooo, you're so close,” said Carrot encouragingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A crown, was it? Maybe a coronet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot leaned down to the constable. “Says here a tiara, Reg, can we let—?” He stood up. “We're prepared to accept ‘coronet’. Well done!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked down at Constable Shoe again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is all right, isn't it, Reg? It's not coercion, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't see how it can be, captain. I mean, they broke in, they took a hostage…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose you're right—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Please! No! Good boy! Down!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Seems to be about it, sir,” said Reg Shoe, peering around the edge of the cart. “We've got them down for everything but the Hide Park Flasher—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We did that!” screamed someone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and that was a woman…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">We did it</em>!” This time the voice was a lot higher. “<em class="calibre9">Now please can we come out</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot stood up and raised the megaphone. “If you gentlemen would care to step out with your hands up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you joking?” whimpered someone, against the background of another growl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, at least with your hands where I can see them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You bet, mister!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Four men stumbled out into the street. Their tom clothing fluttered in the breeze. The apparent leader pointed an angry finger back at the doorway as Carrot walked towards them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The owner of that place ought to be prosecuted!” he shouted. “Keeping a wild animal like that in his strongroom, it's disgraceful! We broke in perfectly peacefully and it just attacked us for no reason at all!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You shot at Constable Shoe here,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only to miss! Only to miss!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Shoe pointed at the arrow sticking into his breastplate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right where it shows!” he complained. “It's a welding job and we have to pay for our own armour repairs and there'll always be a mark, you know, no matter what I do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their horrified gaze took in the stitch marks around his neck and on his hands, and it dawned on them that although the human race came in a variety of colours, very few living people were grey with a hint of green.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, you're a <em class="calibre9">zombie</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, kick a man when he's dead,” said Constable Shoe sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you took Corporal Angua hostage. A lady,” said Carrot, in the same level voice. It was very polite. But it simply suggested that somewhere a fuse was burning, and it would be a good idea not to wait for it to reach the barrel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes… sort of… but she must've got away when that <em class="calibre9">creature</em> turned up…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you left her in there?” said Carrot, still very calm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The men dropped to their knees. The leader raised his hand imploringly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please! We're just robbers and thieves! We're not bad men!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot nodded to Constable Shoe. “Take them down to the Yard, constable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right!” said Reg. There was a mean look in his eye as he cocked his crossbow. “I'm down ten dollars thanks to you. So you'd better not try to escape.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. Not us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot wandered into the gloom of the building. Fearful faces peered out of doorways. He gave them a reassuring smile as he walked towards the strongroom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Angua was adjusting her uniform.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't bite anyone, before you start,” she said, as he appeared in the doorway. “Not even flesh wounds. I just tore at their trousers. And that was no bed of roses, I might add.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A frightened face appeared round the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Mr Vortin,” said Carrot. “I think you will find that all is in order. They seem to have dropped everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The diamond merchant looked at him in amazement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they had a hostage—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They saw the error of their ways,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And… and there were snarling noises… sounded like a wolf…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes,” said Carrot. “Well, you know, when thieves fall out…” Which was no kind of explanation, but because the tone of voice suggested that it <em class="calibre9">was</em>, Mr Vortin accepted it as such for fully five minutes after Carrot and Angua had left.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that's a nice start to the day,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, yes, I wasn't hurt,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It makes it all seem worthwhile, somehow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just my hair messed up and another shirt ruined.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sometimes I might suspect that you don't listen to anything I say,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Glad to hear it,” said Carrot.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The entire Watch was mustering. Vimes looked down at the sea of faces.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">My gods, he thought. How many have we got now? A few years ago you could count the Watch on the fingers of a blind butcher's hand, and now…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There's <em class="calibre9">more</em> coming in!</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He leaned sideways to Captain Carrot. “Who're all these people?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Watchmen, sir. You appointed them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did I? I haven't even <em class="calibre9">met</em> some of them!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You signed the paperwork, sir. And you sign the wage bill every month. Eventually.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a hint of criticism in his voice. Vimes's approach to paperwork was not to touch it until someone was shouting, and then at least there would be someone to help him sort through the stacks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But how did they join?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Usual way, sir. Swore them in, gave them each a helmet—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hey, that's Reg Shoe! He's a zombie! He falls to bits all the time!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very big man in the undead community, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How come <em class="calibre9">he</em> joined?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He came round last week to complain about the Watch harassing some bogeymen, sir. He was very, er, vehement, sir. So I persuaded him that what the Watch needed was some expertise, and so he joined up, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No more complaints?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Twice as many, sir. All from undead, sir, and all against Mr Shoe. Funny, that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave his captain a sideways look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's very hurt about it, sir. He says he's found that the undead just don't understand the difficulties of policing in a multi-vital society, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Good gods, thought Vimes, that's just what I would have done. But I'd have done it because I'm not a nice person. Carrot is a nice person, he's practially got medals for it, surely he wouldn't have…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he knew that he would never know. Somewhere behind Carrot's innocent stare was a steel door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">You</em> enrolled him, did you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir. You did, sir. You signed his joining orders and his kit chitty and his posting orders, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had another vision of too many documents, hurriedly signed. But he <em class="calibre9">must</em> have signed them and they needed the men, true enough. It was just that it ought to be <em class="calibre9">him</em> who—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And anyone of sergeant rank or above can recruit, sir,” said Carrot, as if reading his mind. “It's in the General Orders. Page twenty-two, sir. Just below the tea stain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you've recruited… how many?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, just one or two. We're still very short-handed, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are with Reg. His arms keep falling off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aren't you going to talk to the men, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the assembled… well, multitude. There was no other word. Well, there were plenty, but none that it would be fair to use.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Big ones, short ones, fat ones, troll ones with the lichen still on, bearded dwarf ones, the looming pottery presence of the golem Constable Dorfl, undead ones… and even now he wasn't certain if that term should include Corporal Angua, an intelligent girl and a very useful wolf when she had to be. Waifs and strays, Colon had said once. Waifs and bloody strays, because normal people wouldn't be coppers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Technically they were all in uniform, too, except that mostly they weren't wearing the same uniform as anyone else. Everyone had just been sent down to the armoury to collect whatever fitted, and the result was a walking historical exhibit: Funny-Shaped Helmets Through the Ages.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… ladies and gentlemen—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Be quiet, please, and listen to Commander Vimes!” bellowed Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes found himself meeting the gaze of Angua, who was leaning against the wall. She rolled her eyes helplessly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, thank you, captain,” said Vimes. He turned back to the massed array of Ankh-Morpork's finest. He opened his mouth. He stared. And then he shut his mouth, all but a corner of it. And said out of that corner: “What's that little lump on Constable Flint's head?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Probationary Constable Buggy Swires, sir. He likes to get a good view.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a <em class="calibre9">gnome</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Another one of yours?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Ours</em>, sir,” said Carrot, using his reproachful voice again. “Yes, sir. Attached to the Chitterling Street Station since last week, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh my gods…” murmured Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Buggy Swires saw his stare and saluted. He was five inches tall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes regathered his mental balance. The long and the short and the tall… waifs and strays, all of us.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not going to keep you long,” he said. “You all know me… well, <em class="calibre9">most</em> of you know me,” he added, with a sidelong glance at Carrot, “and I don't make speeches. But I'm sure all of you have noticed the way this Leshp business has got people all stirred up. There's a lot of loose talk about war. Well, war isn't our business. War is soldiers' business. Our business, I think, is to keep the peace. Let me show you this—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood back and pulled something out of his pocket with a flourish. At least, that was the intention. There was a rip as something ceased to be entangled in the lining.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn… ah…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He produced a length of shiny black wood from the ragged pocket. There was a large silver knob on the end. The watchmen craned to look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This… er… this…” Vimes groped. “This old man turned up from the palace a couple of weeks ago. Gave me this damn thing. Got a label saying ‘<em class="calibre9">Regalia of the Watch Commandr., Citie of Ankh-Morporke</em>’. You know they never throw anything away up at the palace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He waved it vaguely. The wood was surprisingly heavy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's got the coat of arms on the knob, look.” Thirty watchmen tried to see.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I thought… I thought, good grief, <em class="calibre9">this</em> is what I'm supposed to carry? And I thought about it, and then I thought, no, that's right, just once someone got it <em class="calibre9">right</em>. It's not even a weapon, it's just a <em class="calibre9">thing</em>. It ain't for using, it's just for having. That's what it's all about. Same thing with uniforms. You see, a soldier's uniform, it's to turn him into part of a crowd of other parts all in the same uniform, but a copper's uniform is there to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped. Perplexed expressions in front of him told him that he was building a house of cards with too few cards on the bottom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He coughed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Anyway</em>,” he went on, with a glare to indicate that everyone should forget the previous twenty seconds, “our job is to <em class="calibre9">stop</em> people fighting. There's a lot happening on the street. You've probably heard that they're starting up the regiments again. Well, people can recruit if they like. But we're not going to have any mobs. There's a nasty mood around. I don't know what's going to happen, but we've got to be there when it does.” He looked around the room. “Another thing. This new Klatchian envoy or whatever he's called is arriving tomorrow. I don't think the Assassins' Guild has anything planned but <em class="calibre9">tonight</em> we're going to check the route the wizards' procession will be taking. A nice little job for the night shift. And tonight we're <em class="calibre9">all</em> on the night shift.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a groan from the Watch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As my old sergeant used to say, if you can't take a joke you shouldn't have joined,” said Vimes. “A nice gentle door-to-door inspection, shaking hands with doorknobs, giving the uniform a bit of an airing. Good old-fashioned policing. Any questions? Good. Thank you very much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a general rustling and relaxing among the squad as it dawned on them that they were free to go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot started to clap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't the clap used by middlings to encourage underlings to applaud overlings.<a href="#_ftn1" title="1. The palms are held at right angles to one another and flapped together rather than clapped, while the flapper stares intently at the audience as if to say “We're going to have some applause here or else the whole school is in detention.”"><sup class="calibre10">1</sup></a> It had genuine enthusiasm behind it which was, somehow, worse. A couple of the more impressionable new constables picked it up and then, in the same way that little pebbles lead the avalanche, the sound of humanoids banging their hands together filled the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glowered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very inspiring, sir!” said Carrot, as the clapping rose to a storm.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Rain poured on Ankh-Morpork. It filled the gutters and overflowed and was then flung away by the wind. It tasted of salt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The gargoyles had crept out of their daytime shadows and were perched on every cornice and tower, ears and wings outstretched to sieve anything edible out of the water. It was amazing what could fall on Ankh-Morpork. Rains of small fish and frogs were common enough, although bedsteads caused comment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A broken gutter poured a sheet of water down the window of Ossie Brunt, who was sitting on his bed because there were no chairs or, indeed, any other furniture. He didn't mind at the moment. In a minute or two he might be very angry. And, then again, possibly not.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was not that Ossie was insane in any way. Friends would have called him a quiet sort who kept himself to himself, but they didn't because he didn't have any friends. There <em class="calibre9">was</em> a group of men who went to practise at the archery butts on Tuesday nights, and he sometimes went to a pub with them afterwards and sat and listened to them talk, and he'd saved up once and bought a round of drinks, although they probably wouldn't remember or maybe they'd say, “Oh… yeah… Ossie.” People said that. People tended to put him out of their minds, in the same way that you didn't pay much attention to empty space.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wasn't stupid. He thought a lot about things. Sometimes he'd sit and think for hours, just staring at the opposite wall where the rain came in on damp nights and made a map of Klatch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone hammered on the door. “Mr Brunt? Are you decent?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm a bit busy, Mrs Spent” he said, putting his bow under the bed with his magazines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's about the rent!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Mrs Spent?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know my rules!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall pay you tomorrow, Mrs Spent,” said Ossie, looking towards the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cash in my hand by noon or it's out you go!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Mrs Spent.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard her stamp downstairs again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He counted to fifty, very carefully, and then reached down and pulled out his bow again.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua was on patrol with Nobby Nobbs. This was not an ideal arrangement, but Carrot was on swing patrol and on a night like this Fred Colon, who kept the roster, had an uncanny knack of being on desk duty in the warm. So the spare partners had been thrown together. It was a terrible thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can I have a word, miss?” said Nobby, as they rattled doorknobs and waved their lanterns into alleyways.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's pers'nal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only I'd ask Fred, but he wouldn't understand, and I fink you <em class="calibre9">would</em> understand on account of you being a woman. Most of the time, anyway. No offence meant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you <em class="calibre9">want</em>, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's about my… sexual nature, miss.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua said nothing. Rain banged off Nobby's illfitting helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think it's time I looked it full in the face, miss.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua cursed her graphic imagination again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And, er… how were you thinking of doing that, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, I sent off for stuff, miss, Creams an' that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Creams,” said Angua flatly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That you rub on,” said Nobby helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rub on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And a thing you do exercises with—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh gods…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, miss?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh… I was just thinking of something else. Do go on. Exercises?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah. To build up my biceps and that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">exercises</em>. Really?” Nobby did not appear to have any biceps to speak of. There wasn't really anything for them to be on. Technically he had arms, because his hands were attached to his shoulders, but that was about all you could say.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Horrified interest got the better of her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Why</em>, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked down, sheepishly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… I mean… you know… girls an' that…” To her amazement, Nobby was blushing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean you…” she began. “You want to… you're looking for…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I'm not just after… I mean, if you want a thing done properly then… I mean, no,” said Nobby reproachfully. “What I'm saying is, as you get older, you know, you think about settlin' down, findin' someone who'll go with you hand in hand down life's bumpy highway– Why's your mouth open?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua shut it abruptly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I just don't seem to <em class="calibre9">meet</em> girls,” Nobby said. “Well, I mean, I meet girls, and then they rush off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Despite the cream.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the exercises.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you've covered all the angles, I can see that,” said Angua. “Beats me where you're going wrong.” She sighed. “What about Stamina Thrum, in Elm Street?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She's got a wooden leg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, then… Verity Pushpram, nice girl, she runs the clam and cockle barrow in Rime Street?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hammerhead? Stinks of fish all the time. And she's got a squint.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She's got her own business, though. Does wonderful chowder, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And a squint.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not exactly a squint, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but you know what I mean.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua had to admit that she did. Verity had the <em class="calibre9">opposite</em> of a squint. Both eyes appeared to be endeavouring to see the adjacent ear. When you talked to her, you had to suppress a feeling that she was about to walk off in two directions. But she could gut fish like a champion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She sighed again. She was familiar with the syndrome. They <em class="calibre9">said</em> they wanted a soulmate and helpmeet but sooner or later the list would include a skin like silk and a chest fit for a herd of cows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Except for Carrot. That was almost… almost one of the <em class="calibre9">annoying</em> things about him. She suspected he wouldn't mind if she shaved her head or grew a beard. It wasn't that he wouldn't notice, he just wouldn't <em class="calibre9">mind</em>, and for some reason that was very aggravating.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The only thing I can suggest,” she said, “is that women are quite often attracted to men who can make them laugh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby brightened. “Really?” he said. “I ought to be well in there, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People laugh at me all the time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">High above, quite oblivious of the rain that had already soaked him to the skin, Ossie Brunt checked the oilskin cover round his bow and settled down for the long wait.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Rain was a copper's friend. Tonight people were making do with indoor crime.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood in the lee of one of the fountains in Sator Square. The fountain hadn't worked for years, but he was getting just as wet as if it were in full flow. He'd never experienced truly horizontal rain before.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no one around. The rain marched across the square like… like an army…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now <em class="calibre9">there</em> was an image from his youth. Funny how they hung around in the dark alleys of your brain and suddenly jumped out on you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rain falling on water…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ah, yes… When he was a little lad he'd pretended that the raindrops splashing in the running gutters were soldiers. Millions of soldiers. And the bubbles that sometimes went floating by were men on horseback.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Right now he couldn't remember what the occasional dead dog had been. Some kind of siege weapon, possibly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Water swirled around his boots and dripped off his cape. When he tried to light a cigar the wind blew the match out and the rain poured off his helmet and soaked the cigar in any case.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He grinned in the night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was, temporarily, a happy man. He was cold, wet and alone, trying to keep out of the worst of the weather at three o'clock on a ferocious morning. He'd spent some of the best nights of his life like this. At such times you could just… sort of hunch your shoulders like <em class="calibre9">this</em> and let your head pull in like <em class="calibre9">this</em> and you became a little hutch of warmth and peace, the rain banging on your helmet, the mind just ticking over, sorting out the world…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was like this in the old days, when no one cared about the Watch and all you really had to do was keep out of trouble. Those were the days when there wasn't as much to do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But there <em class="calibre9">was</em> as much to do, said an inner voice. You just didn't do it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He could feel the official truncheon hanging heavily in the special pocket that Sybil herself had sewn in his breeches. Why is it just a bit of wood? he'd asked himself when he'd unwrapped it. Why not a sword? <em class="calibre9">That's</em> the symbol of power. And then he'd realized why it couldn't ever be a sword</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ho there, good citizen! May I ask your business this brisk morning?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sighed. There was a lantern appearing through the murk, surrounded by a halo of water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Ho there, good citizen</em>… There was only one person in the city who would say something like that and mean it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's me, captain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The halo drew nearer and illuminated the damp face of Captain Carrot. The young man ripped off a salute – at godsdam three in the morning, Vimes thought – that would have brought a happy tear to the eye of the most psychotic drill sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're you doing out, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just wanted to… check up on things,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You could have left it all to me, sir,” said Carrot. “Delegation is the key to successful command.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Is it?” said Vimes sourly. “My word, we live and learn, don't we.” And you certainly learn, he added in the privacy of his head. And he was <em class="calibre9">almost</em> sure he was being mean and stupid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've just about finished, sir. We've checked all the empty buildings. And there will be an extra squad of constables on the route. And the gargoyles will be up as high as they can. You know how good they are at watching, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gargoyles? I thought we just had Constable Downspout…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And Constable Pediment now, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of yours?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of ours, sir. You signed—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, I'm sure I did. Damn!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A gust of wind caught the water pouring from an overloaded gutter and dumped it down Vimes's neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say this new island's upset the air streams” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not just the air,” said Vimes. “A lot of damn fuss over a few square miles of silt and some old ruins! Who cares?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say it's strategically very important,” said Carrot, falling into step beside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What for? We're not at war with anyone. Hah! But we might go to war to keep some damn island that's only useful in case we have to go to war, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, his lordship will have it all sorted out today. I'm sure that when moderate-mannered men of goodwill can get round a table there's no problem that can't be resolved,” said Carrot cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He is, thought Vimes glumly. He really is sure. “Know much about Klatch?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've read a little, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very sandy place, they say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Apparently.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a crash somewhere ahead of them, and a scream. Coppers learned to be good at screams. There was to the connoisseur a world of difference between “I'm drunk and I've just trodden on my fingers and I can't get up!” and “Look out! He's got a knife!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Both men started to run.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Light blazed out in a narrow street. Heavy footsteps vanished into the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The light flickered beyond a shop's broken window. Vimes stumbled through the doorway pulled off his sodden cape and threw it over the fire in the middle of the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a hiss, and a smell of hot leather.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Vimes stood back and tried to work out where the hell he was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People were staring at him. Dimly, his mind assembled clues: the turban, the beard, the woman's jewellery…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Where did he come from? Who is this man?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… good morning?” he said. “Looks like there's been a bit of an accident?” He raised the cape gingerly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A broken bottle lay in a pool of sizzling oil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked up at the broken window. “Oh…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other two people were a boy almost as tall as his father and a small girl trying to hide behind her mother.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes felt his stomach turn to lead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot arrived in the doorway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I lost them,” he panted. “There were three of them, I think. Can't see anything in this rain… <em class="calibre9">Oh</em>, <em class="calibre9">it's you Mr Goriff. What happened here?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Captain Carrot! Someone threw a burning bottle through out window and then this beggar man rushed in and put it out!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What'd he say? What did <em class="calibre9">you</em> say?” said Vimes. “You <em class="calibre9">speak</em> Klatchian?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not very well,” said Carrot modestly. “I just can't get the backof-the-throat sound to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… you can understand what he said?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. He just thanked you very much, by the way. <em class="calibre9">It's all right, Mr Goriff, He's a watchman.</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you speak—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot knelt down and looked at the broken bottle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you know how it is. You come in here on night shift for a hot caraway bun and you just get chatting. You must have picked up the odd word, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… vindaloo maybe, but…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a firebomb, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know, captain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is very bad. Who would do a thing like this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right now?” said Vimes. “Half the city, I should think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked helplessly at Goriff. He vaguely recognized the face. He vaguely recognized Mrs Goriff's face. They were… faces. They were usually at the other end of some arms holding a portion of carry or a kebab. Sometimes the boy ran the place. The shop opened very early in the morning and very late at night, when the streets were owned by bakers, thieves and watchmen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes knew the place as Mundane Meals. Nobby Nobbs had said that Goriff had wanted a word that meant ordinary, everyday, straight-forward, and had asked around until he found one he liked the sound of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… tell him… tell him you're staying here, and I'll go back to the Watch House and send someone out to relieve you,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you,” said Goriff.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you underst—” Vimes felt like an idiot. “Of course you do, you must have been here, what, five, six years?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ten years, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes manically. “That long? Really? My word… well, I'd better get along… Good morning to you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He hurried out into the rain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I must have been going in there for <em class="calibre9">years</em>, he thought, as he splashed through the darkness. And I know how to say “vindaloo”. And… “korma”…? Carrot's hardly been here five minutes and he gargles the language like a native.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Good grief, I can get by in dwarfish and I can at least say, “cut down that rock, you're under arrest,” in troll, but…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stamped into the Watch House, water pooling off him. Fred Colon was dozing quietly at the desk. In deference to the fact that he'd known Fred. All these years, Vimes was extra noisy about taking off his cape.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he officially turned round, the sergeant was sitting at attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't know you were on tonight, Mr Vimes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is unofficial, Fred,” said Vimes. He accepted “Mr” from certain people. In an odd way, they'd earned it. “Send someone along to Mundane Meals in Scandal Alley, will you? A bit of trouble there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You stopping, sir?” said Fred.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes,” said Vimes grimly. “I've got to catch up on the paperwork.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The rain fell on Leshp so hard it probably hadn't been worth the island's bother of rising from the bottom of the sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Most of the explorers slept in their boats now. There <em class="calibre9">were</em> buildings on the risen island, but…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…the buildings weren't quite right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid Jackson peered out from the tarpaulin he'd rigged up on deck. Mist was rising off the soaking ground and was made luminous by the occasional flash of lightning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The city, by storm light, looked far too malevolent. There <em class="calibre9">were</em> things he could recognize – columns and steps and archways and so on – but there were others… he shuddered. It looked as if people had once tried to add human touches to structures that were already ancient…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was because of his son that everyone was staying in the boats.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A party of Ankh-Morpork fishermen had gone ashore that morning to search for the heaps of treasure that everyone knew littered the ocean bottom and had found a tiled floor, washed clean by the rain. Pretty blue and white squares showed a pattern of waves and shells, and, in the middle, a squid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Les had said, “That looks pretty big, Dad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And everyone had looked around at the weed-covered buildings and had shared the Thought, which remained unspoken but was made up of a lot of little thoughts like the occasional ripples in the pools, and the little splashes in the dark water of cellars that made the mind think of claws, winnowing the deeps, and the odd things that sometimes got washed up on beaches or turned up in nets. Sometimes you pulled things over the side that'd put a man off fish for life.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And suddenly no one wanted to explore any more, just in case they found something.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid Jackson pulled his head back under the cover.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why'n't we going home, Dad?” said his son. “You said this place gives you the willies.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, but they're <em class="calibre9">Ankh</em>–<em class="calibre9">Morpork</em> willies, see? And no foreigner's going to get his hands on them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, lad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who was Mr Hong?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How should I know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only, when we was all heading back for the boats one of the other men said, ‘We all know what happened to Mr Hong when he opened the Three Jolly Luck Take-Away Fish Bar on the site of the old fish-god temple in Dagon Street on the night of the full moon, don't we…?’ Well, <em class="calibre9">I</em> don't know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah…” Solid Jackson hesitated. Still, Les was a big lad now…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He… closed up and left in a bit of a hurry, lad. So quick he had to leave some things behind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you must know… half an earhole and one kidney.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cool!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The boat rocked, and wood splintered. Jackson jerked the cover up. Spray washed over him. Somewhere close in the wet darkness a voice shouted: “Why you not carrying lights, you second cousin of a jackal?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jackson pulled out the lantern and held it up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're you doing in Ankh-Morpork territorial waters, you camel-eating devil?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These waters belong to us!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were here first!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah? <em class="calibre9">We</em> were here first!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were here first <em class="calibre9">first</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You damaged my boat! That's <em class="calibre9">piracy</em>, that is!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were other shouts around them. In the darkness the two flotillas had collided. Bowsprits tore away rigging. Hulls boomed. The controlled panic that is normal sailing became the frantic panic composed of darkness, spray and too much rigging coming unrigged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At times like this the ancient traditions of the sea that unite all mariners should come to the fore and see them combine in the face of their common foe, the hungry and relentless ocean.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">However, at this point Mr Arif hit Mr Jackson over the head with an oar.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hnh? Wuh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened the only eye that appeared to respond. A horrible sight met it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">I read him his rites, whereupon, he said up, yours copper. Sgnt Detritus then, cautioned him, upon which he said, ouch</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There may be a lot of things I'm not good at, thought Vimes, but at least I don't treat tile punctuation of a sentence like a game of Pin the Tail on the Donkey…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He rolled his head away from Carrot's fractured grammar. The pile of paper shifted under him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's desk was becoming famous. Once there were piles, but they had slipped as piles do, forming this dense compacted layer that was now turning into something like peat. It was said there were plates and unfinished meals somewhere down there. No one wanted to check. Some people said they'd heard movement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a genteel cough. Vimes rolled his head again and looked up into the big pink face of Willikins, Lady Sybil's butler. <em class="calibre9">His</em> butler too, technically, although Vimes hated to think of him like that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we had better proceed with alacrity, Sir Samuel. I have brought your dress uniform, and your shaving things are by the basin.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are due at the University in half an hour. Lady Sybil has vouchsafed to me that if you are not there she will utilize your intestines for hosiery accessories, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was she smiling?” said Vimes, staggering to his feet and making his way to the steaming basin on the wash stand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only slightly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh gods…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Yes</em>, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes made an attempt at shaving while, behind him, Willikins brushed and polished. Outside, the city's clocks began to strike ten.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It must've been almost four when I sat down Vimes thought. I know I heard the shift change at eight, and then I had to sort out Nobby's expenses, that's advanced mathematics if ever there was some…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to yawn and shave at the same time, which is never a good idea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall fetch some tissue paper directly, sir,” said Willikins, without looking round. As Vimes dabbed at his chin, the butler went on: “I should like to take this opportunity to raise a matter of some import, sir…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” Vimes shared blearily at the red tights that seemed to be a major item of his dress uniform.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Regretfully, I am afraid I must ask leave to give in my notice, sir. I wish to join the Colours.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which colours are these, Willikins?” said Vimes, holding up a shirt with puffed sleeves. Then his brain caught up with his ears. “You want to become a <em class="calibre9">soldier</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say Klatch needs to be taught a sharp lesson, sir. A Willikins has never been found wanting when his country calls. I thought that Lord Venturi's Heavy Infantry would do for me. They have a particularly attractive uniform of red and white, sir. With gold frogging.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled his boots on. “You've had military experience, have you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no, sir. But I am a quick learner, sir, and I believe I have some prowess with the carving knife.” The butler's face showed a patriotic alertness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir,” said Willikins, buffing up the ceremonial helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you're off to fight the screaming hordes in Klatch, are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If it should come to that, sir,” said Willikins. “I think this is adequately polished now, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A very sandy place, so they say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed, sir,” said Willikins, adjusting the helmet under Vimes's chin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And rocky. Very rocky. Lots of rocks. Dusty, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very parched in parts, sir, I believe you are correct.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And so into this land of sand-coloured dust and sandcoloured rocks and sand-coloured sand you, Willikins, will march with your expertise in cutlery and your red and white uniform?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With the gold frogging, sir.” Willikins thrust out his jaw. “Yes, sir. If the need arises.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't see anything wrong with this picture?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, never mind.” Vimes yawned. “Well, we shall miss you, Willikins.” Others may not, he thought. Especially if they have time for a second shot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Lord Venturi says it'll all be over by Hogswatch, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? I didn't know it had started.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes ran down the stairs and into a smell of curry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We saved you some, sir,” said Sergeant Colon. “You was asleep when the lad brought it round.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was Goriff's kid,” said Nobby, chasing a bit of rice around his tin plate. “Enough for half the shift.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The rewards of duty,” said Vimes, hurrying towards the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bread and mango pickle and everything,” said Colon happily. “I've always said old Goriff isn't that bad for a rag'ead.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">A pool of sizzling oil</em>… Vimes stopped at the door. <em class="calibre9">The family, huddling together</em>… He took out his watch. It was twenty past ten. If he ran—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred, could you just step up to my office?” he said. “It won't take a moment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes ushered the sergeant up the stairs and closed the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby and the other watchmen strained to listen, but there was no sound except for a low murmuring which went on for some time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened again. Vimes came down the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby, come up to the University in five minutes, will you? I want to stay in touch and I'm damned if I'm taking a pigeon with this uniform on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes left.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few moments later Sergeant Colon walked carefully down to the main office. He had a slightly glassy look and walked back to his desk with the nonchalance that only the extremely worried try to achieve. He toyed with some paper for a while and then said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't mind what people call <em class="calibre9">you</em>, do you, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd be minding the whole time if I minded that, sarge,” said Corporal Nobbs cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Right! And I don't mind what people call me, neither.” Colon scratched his head. “Don't make sense, really. I reckon Sir Sam is missing too much sleep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a very busy man, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Trying to do everything, that's his trouble. And… Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Sergeant Colon, thanks.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">There was sherry. There was always sherry at these occasions. Seam Vimes could regard it dispassionately, since he always drank fruit juice these days. He'd heard they made sherry by letting wine go rotten He couldn't see the <em class="calibre9">point</em> of sherry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you will <em class="calibre9">try</em> to look dignified, won't you?” said Lady Sybil, adjusting his cloak.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What will you try to look?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dignified, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And <em class="calibre9">please</em> try to be diplomatic.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What will you try to be?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Diplomatic, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're using your ‘henpecked’ voice, Sam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know that's not fair.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, dear.” Vimes raised a hand in a theatrical gesture of submission. “All right, all <em class="calibre9">right</em>. It's just these feathers. And these tights,” He winced and tried to do some surreptitious rearranging in an effort to prevent himself becoming the city's first hunchgroin. “I mean, supposing people <em class="calibre9">see</em> me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course they'll see you, Sam. You're leading the procession. And I'm <em class="calibre9">very</em> proud of you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She brushed some lint off his shoulder.<a href="#_ftn2" title="2. Women always do this."><sup class="calibre10">2</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Feathers in my hat, Vimes thought glumly. And fancy tights. And a shiny breastplate. A breastplate shouldn't be shiny. It should be too denied to take a decent polish. And diplomatic talk? How should I know how to talk diplomatically?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now I must go and have a word with Lady Selachii,” said Lady Sybil. “You'll be all right, will you? You keep yawning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. Didn't get much sleep last night, that's all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You promise not to run away?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? I <em class="calibre9">never</em> run—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You ran away before the big soiree for the Genuan ambassador. Everyone saw you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd just got news that the De Bris gang were robbing Vortin's strongroom!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But <em class="calibre9">you</em> don't have to chase everyone, Sam. You employ people for that now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We got 'em, though,” said Vimes, with satisfaction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd enjoyed it immensely, too. It wasn't just the pursuit that was so invigorating, with his velvet cloak left behind on a tree and his hat in a puddle somewhere, it was the knowledge that while he was doing this he wasn't eating very small sandwiches and making even smaller talk. It wasn't proper police work, Vimes considered, unless you were doing something that someone somewhere would much rather you weren't doing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When Sybil had disappeared into the crowd he found a handy shadow and lurked in it. It enabled him to see almost the whole of the University's Great Hall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He quite liked the wizards. They didn't commit crimes. Not Vimes's type of crimes, anyway. The occult wasn't Vimes's beat. The wizards might well mess up the very fabric of time and space but they didn't lead to paperwork, and that was fine by Vimes. There were a lot of them in the hall, in all their glory. And there was nothing finer than a wizard dressed up formally, until someone could find a way of inflating a Bird of Paradise, possibly by using an elastic band and some kind of gas. But the wizards were getting a run for their money, because the rest of the guests were either nobles or guild leaders or both, and an occasion like the Convivium brought out the peacock in everyone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His gaze went from face to chatting face, and he wondered idly what each person was guilty of.<a href="#_ftn3" title="3. The possibility that they were not guilty of anything was one that he didn't even think worthy of consideration."><sup class="calibre10">3</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Quite a few of the ambassadors were there, too. They were easy to pick out. They wore their national costumes, but since by and large their national costumes were what the average peasant wore they looked slightly out of place in them. Their bodies wore feathers and silks, but their minds persistently wore suits.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They chatted in small groups. One or two nodded and smiled to him as they passed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">The world is watching</em>, Vimes thought. If something went wrong and this stupid Leshp business started a war, it's men like these who'd be working out exactly how to deal with the winner, whoever it was. Never mind who started it, never mind how it was fought, they'd want to know how to deal with things <em class="calibre9">now</em>. They represented what people called the “international community”. And like all uses of the world “community”, you were never quite sure what or who it was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. It wasn't his world, thank goodness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sidled over to Corporal Nobbs, who was standing by the main doors in the sort of lopsided slouch which was the closest a living Nobbs could come to attention.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All quiet, Nobby?” he said, out of the corner of his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing going on <em class="calibre9">at all</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir. Not a pigeon anywhere, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, nowhere? Nothing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was trouble all over the place yesterday!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You did <em class="calibre9">tell</em> Fred he was to send a bird if there was anything at all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Shades? There's <em class="calibre9">always</em> something—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dead quiet, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Damn</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook his head at the sheer untrustworthiness of Ankh-Morpork's criminal fraternity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose you couldn't take a brick and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady Sybil was very speffic about how you was to stop here” said Corporal Nobbs, staring straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Speffic?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, sir. She come and have a word with me. Gave me a dollar,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Sir Samuel!” said a booming voice behind him, “I don't think you've met Prince Khufurah yet, have you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned. Archchancellor Ridcully was bearing down on him, towing a couple of swarthy men. Vimes hurriedly put on his official face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is Commander Vimes, gentlemen. Sam… no, I'm doing this the wrong way round, aren't I, got the protocol all wrong – so much to sort out, the Bursar's locked himself in the safe again, we don't know how he manages to get the key in there with him, I mean, it's not even as if it's got a keyhole on the inside…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The first man held out a hand as Ridcully bustled off again. “Prince Khufurah,” he said. “My carpet got in only two hours ago.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carpet? Oh… yes… you flew…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, very chilly and of course you just can't get a good meal. And did you get your man, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe our ambasssador told me you had to leave the reception last week…?” The Prince was a tall man who had probably once been quite athletic until the big dinners had finally weighed him down. And he had a beard. All Klatchians had beards. This Klatchian had intelligent eyes, too. Disconcertingly intelligent. You looked into them and several layers of person looked back at you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh. Yes. Yes, we got 'em all right,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done. He put up a fight, I see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked surprised. The Prince tapped his jaw thoughtfully. Vimes's hand flew up and encountered a little bit of tissue on his own chin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… er… yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander Vimes <em class="calibre9">always</em> gets his man,” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I wouldn't say I—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vetinari's terrier, I've heard them call you,” the Prince went on. “Always hot on the chase, they say, and he won't let go.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared into the calm, knowing gaze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose, at the end of the day, we're all someone's dog,” he said, weakly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact it is fortuitous I have met you, commander.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was just wondering about the meaning of the word shouted at me as we were on our way down here. Would you be so kind?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… if I…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe it was… let me see now… oh, yes… <em class="calibre9">towelhead</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince's eyes stayed locked on Vimes's face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was conscious of his own thoughts moving very fast, and they seemed to reach their own decision. We'll explain later, they said. You're too tired for explanations. Right now, with this man, it's oh so much better to be honest…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It… refers to your headdress,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Is it some kind of obscure joke?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of <em class="calibre9">course</em> he knows, thought Vimes. And he knows I know…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. It's an insult,” he said eventually.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah? Well, we certainly cannot be held responsible for the ramblings of idiots, commander.” The Prince flashed a smile. “I must commend you, incidentally.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For your breadth of knowledge. I must have asked a dozen people that question <em class="calibre9">this morning</em> and, do you know? Not <em class="calibre9">one</em> of them knew what it meant. And they <em class="calibre9">all</em> seemed to have caught a cough.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a diplomatic pause but, in it, someone sniggered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes let his glance drift sideways to the other man, who had not been introduced. He was shorter and skinnier than the Prince and, under his black headdress, had the most crowded face Vimes had ever seen. A network of scars surrounded a nose like an eagle's beak. There was a sort of beard and moustache, but the scars had affected the hair growth so much that they stuck out in strange bunches and at odd angles. The man looked as though he had been hit in the mouth by a hedgehog. He could have been any age. Some of the scars looked fresh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All in all, the man had a face that any policeman would arrest on sight. There was no possible way it could be innocent of <em class="calibre9">anything</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He caught Vimes's expression and grinned, and Vimes had never seen so much gold in one mouth. He'd never seen so much gold in one <em class="calibre9">place</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes realized he was staring when he ought to have been making polite diplomatic conversation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” he said, “are we going to have a scrap over this Leshp business or what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince gave a dismissive shrug.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pfui,” he said. “A few square miles of uninhabited fertile ground with superb anchorage in an unsurpassed strategic position? What sort of inconsequence is that for civilized people to war over?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again Vimes felt the gaze on him, <em class="calibre9">reading</em> him. Well, the hell with it. He said, “Sorry, I'm not good at this diplomacy business. Did you mean what you just said then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was another snigger. Vimes turned and looked at the leering bearded face again. And was aware of a smell, no, a <em class="calibre9">stench</em> of cloves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Good grief, he chews the stinking things</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” said the Prince, “you haven't met 71-hour Ahmed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed grinned again and bowed. “Offendi,” he said, in a voice like a gravel path.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And that seemed to be it. Not “This is 71-hour Ahmed, Cultural Attache” or “71-hour Ahmed, my bodyguard” or even “71-hour Ahmed, walking strongroom and moth killer”. It was clear that the next move was up to Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's… er… that's an unusual name” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not at all,” said the Prince smoothly. “Ahmed is a very common name in my country.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He leaned forward again. Vimes recognized this as the prelude to a confidential aside. “Incidentally, was that beautiful lady I saw just now your first wife?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… all my wives,” said Vimes. “That is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could I offer you twenty camels for her?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked back into the dark eyes for a moment, glanced at 71-hour Ahmed's 24-carat grin, and said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is another test, isn't it…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince straightened up, looking pleased.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, Sir Samuel. You're <em class="calibre9">good</em> at this. Do you know, Mr Boggis of the Thieves' Guild was prepared to accept fifteen?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For Mrs Boos?” Vimes waggled a hand dismissively. “Nah… four camels, maybe four camels and a goat in a good light. And when she's had a shave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The milling guests turned at the sound of the Prince's explosion of laughter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good! Very good! I am afraid, commander, that some of <em class="calibre9">your</em> fellow citizens feel that just because <em class="calibre9">my</em> people invented advanced mathematics and allday camping we are complete barbarians who'd try to buy their wives at the drop of, shall we say, a turban. I am surprised they're giving me an honorary degree, considering how incredibly backward I am.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? What degree is that?” said Vimes. No wonder this man was a diplomat. You couldn't trust him an inch, he thought in loops, and you couldn't help liking him despite it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince pulled a letter out of his robe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apparently it's a <em class="calibre9">Doctorum Adamus cum Flabello Dulci</em>– Is there something wrong, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes managed to turn the treacherous laugh into a coughing fit. “No, no, nothing,” he said. “No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He desperately wanted to change the subject. And fortunately there was something here to provide just the opportunity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why has Mr Ahmed got such a big curved sword slung on his back?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, you are a policeman, you notice such things—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's hardly a concealed weapon, is it? It's nearly bigger than him. He's practically a concealed owner!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's ceremonial,” said the Prince. “And he does fret so if he has to leave it behind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what exactly is his—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, there you are,” said Ridcully. “I think we're just about ready. You know you go right at the front, Sam—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I know,” said Vimes. “I was just asking His Highness what—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and if you, Your Highness, and you, Mr… my word, what a big sword, and you come back here and take your place among the honoured guests, and we'll be ready in a brace of sheikhs…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What a thing it is to have a copper's mind, Vimes thought, as the great file of wizards and guests tried to form a dignified and orderly line behind him. Just because someone makes himself pleasant and likeable you start to be suspicious of him, for no other reason than the fact that <em class="calibre9">anyone</em> who goes out of their way to be nice to a copper has got something on their mind. Of course, he's a diplomat, but still… I just hope he never studied ancient languages, and that's a fact.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone tapped Vimes on the shoulder. He turned and looked right into the grin of 71-hour Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I<em class="calibre9">f h</em>you c<em class="calibre9">h</em>anging your mind, <em class="calibre9">off</em>endi, I give <em class="calibre9">h</em>you twenty-five camels, no pro<em class="calibre9">b</em>lem,” he said, pulling a clove from his teeth. “May your <em class="calibre9">h</em>loins be full of fruit.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He winked. It was the most suggestive gesture Vimes had ever seen. “Is this another—” he began, but the man had vanished into the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My loins be full of fruit?” he repeated to himself. “Good grief!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed reappeared at his other elbow in a gust of cloves. “I go, I <em class="calibre9">h</em>come back,” he growled happily. “T<em class="calibre9">h</em>e Prince <em class="calibre9">h</em>says the degree is Doctor of Sweet <em class="calibre9">F</em>anny Adams. A <em class="calibre9">h</em>wizard w<em class="calibre9">h</em>eeze, yes? O<em class="calibre9">h, h</em>ow we are laughing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he was gone.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Convivium was Unseen University's Big Day. Originally it had just been the degree ceremony, but over the years it had developed into a kind of celebration of the amicable relationship between the University and the city, in particular celebrating the fact that people were hardly ever turned to clams any more. In the absence of anything resembling a Lord Mayor's Show or a state opening of Parliament, it was one of the few formal opportunities the citizens had of jeering at their social superiors, or at least at people wearing tights and ridiculous costumes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It had grown so big that it was now held in the city's Opera House. Distrustful people – that is to say, people like Vimes – considered that this was <em class="calibre9">so</em> there could be a procession. There was nothing like the massed ranks of wizardry walking sedately through the city in a spirit of civic amicability to subtly remind the more thoughtful kind of person that it hadn't always been this way. Look at us, the wizards seemed to be saying. We used to rule this city. Look at our big staffs with the knobs on the end. Any one of these could do some very serious damage in the wrong hands so it's a good thing, isn't it, that they're in the right hands at the moment? Isn't it nice that we all get along so well?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And someone, once, had decided that the Commander of the Watch should walk in front, for symbolic reasons. That hadn't mattered for years because there hadn't been a Commander of the Watch, but now there was, and he was Sam Vimes. In a red shirt with silly baggy sleeves, red tights, some kind of puffed shorts in a style that went out of fashion, by the lock of it, at the time when flint was at the cutting edge of cutting-edge technology, a tiny shiny breastplate and a helmet with feathers in it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he really did need some sleep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he had to carry the truncheon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He kept his eyes fixed on the damn thing as he walked out of the University's main gate. Last night's rain had cleaned the sky. The city steamed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If he stared at the truncheon he didn't have to see who was giggling at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The downside was that he had to keep staring at the thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It said, on a little tarnished shield that he'd had to clean before reading it, <em class="calibre9">Protecter of thee Kinge's Piece</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That had brightened the occasion slightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Feathers and antiques, gold braid and fur…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it was because he was tired, or just because he was trying to shut out the world, but Vimes found himself slowing down into the traditional watchman's walk and the traditional idling thought process.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was an almost Pavlovian response.<a href="#_ftn4" title="4. A term invented by the wizard Denephew Boot*, who had found that by a system of rewards and punishments he could train a dog, at the ringing of a bell, to immediately eat a strawberry meringue."><sup class="calibre10">4</sup></a> The legs swung, the feet moved, the mind began to work in a certain way. It wasn't a dream state, exactly. It was just that the ears, nose and eyeballs wired themselves straight into the ancient “suspicious bastard” node of his brain, leaving his higher brain centre free to freewheel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…Fur and tights… what kind of wear was that for a watchman? Bashed-in armour, greasy leather breeches and a tatty shirt with bloodstains on it, someone else's for preference… that was the stuff… nice feel of the cobbles through his boots, it was really comforting…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind him, confusion running up and down the ranks, the procession slowed down to keep in step.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…Hah, <em class="calibre9">Protecter of thee Kinge's Piece</em> indeed… he'd said to the old man who'd delivered it, “Which piece did you have in mind?” but that had fallen on stony ears… damn silly thing anyway, he'd thought, a short length of wood with a lump of silver on the end… even a constable got a decent sword, what was he supposed to do, <em class="calibre9">wave</em> it at people?… ye gods, it was months since he'd had a good walk through the streets… lot of people about today… some parade on, wasn't there…?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear,” said Captain Carrot, in the crowd. “What's he doing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Next to him an Agatean tourist was industriously pulling the lever of his iconograph.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Commander Vimes stopped and, with a faraway look in his eyes, tucked his truncheon under one arm and reached up to his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tourist locked up at Carrot and tugged his shirt politely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please, what is he doing now?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… he's… he's taking out…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Oh, no</em>…” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…he's taking the ceremonial packet of cigars out of his helmet,” said Carrot. “Oh… and he's, he's lighting one…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tourist pulled the lever a few times.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very historic tradition?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Memorable,” murmured Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd had fallen silent. No one wanted to break Vimes's concentration. There was the big gusty silence of a thousand people holding their breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's he doing now?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't you see?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not with my hands over my eyes. Oh, the poor man…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's… he's just blown a smoke ring…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…first one of the day, he <em class="calibre9">always</em> does that…” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…and now he's set off again… and now he's pulled out the truncheon and he's tossing it up in the air and catching it again, you know the way he does with his sword when he's thinking… He looks quite happy…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think he's going to really <em class="calibre9">treasure</em> this moment of happiness,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then the murmur started. The procession had halted behind Vimes. Some of the more impressionable people who weren't sure what they should be doing, and those who had partaken too heavily of the University's rather good sherry, started to fumble around on their person for something to throw up in the air and catch. After all, this was a Traditional Ceremony. If you took the view that you were not going to do things because they were apparently ridiculous, you might as well go home right now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's tired, that's what it is,” said Carrot. “He's been running around overseeing things for days. Night <em class="calibre9">and</em> day watches. You know what a hands-on person he is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's hope the Patrician will agree to let him stay that way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, his lordship wouldn't… He wouldn't, would he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Laughter was starting. Vimes had started to toss the truncheon from one hand to the other.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He can make his sword spin three times and still catch it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's head turned. He looked up. His truncheon clattered on to the cobbles and rolled into a puddle, unheeded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he started to run.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot stared at him and then tried to see what the man had been looking at.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On top of the Barbican…” he said. “In that window… isn't that someone up there? Excuse me, excuse me, sorry, excuse me—” He began to push his way through the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was already a small figure in the distance, his red cloack flying out after him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well? There's lots of people watching the parade from high places,” said Angua. “What's so special about—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one should be up there!” said Carrot, starting to run now he was free of the crowd. “It's all sealed up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua looked around. Every face was turned towards the street theatre, and there was a cart near by. She sighed and strolled behind it wearing an expression of suspicious nonchalance. There was a gasp, a faint but distinctly organic sound, a muffled yelp and then the clank of armour hitting the ground.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't know why he ran. It was a sixth sense. It was when the back of the brain picked up out of the ether that something bad was going to happen, and didn't have time to rationalize, and just took over the spinal cord.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No one could get to the top of the Barbican. The Barbican had been the fortified gateway in the days when Ankh-Morpork didn't regard an attacking army as a marvellous commercial opportunity. Some parts were still in use, but the bulk of it was six or seven storeys of ruin, without stairs that any sensible man would trust. For years it had been used as an unofficial source of masonry for the rest of the city. Bits of it fell off on windy nights. Even gargoyles avoided it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware that far behind him the noise of the crowd became a lot of shouting. One or two people screamed. He didn't turn round. Whatever was going on, Carrot could take care of it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something overtook him. It looked like a wolf would look if one of its ancestors had been a longhaired Klatchistan hunting dog, one of those graceful things that were all nose and hair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It bounded ahead and through the crumbling gateway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The creature was nowhere to be seen when Vimes arrived. But the absence was not a matter that grabbed at his attention, because of the more pressing presence of the corpse, lying in a mess of fallen masonry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the things Vimes had always said – that is to say, one of the things he said he always said, and no one disagrees with the commanding officer – was that sometimes small details, tiny little details, things that no one would notice in ordinary circumstances, grab your senses by the throat and scream, “See me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a lingering, spicy scent in the air. And in the gap between a couple of cobblestones was a clove.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It was five o'clock. Vimes and Carrot sat in the Patrician's outer office, in silence except for the irregular ticking of the dock.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while Vimes said: “Let me have a look at that again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot obediently pulled out the small square of paper. Vimes looked at it. There was no mistaking what it showed. He tucked it into his own pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… why do you want to keep it, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Keep what?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The iconograph I borrowed from the tourist.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know what you're talking about,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't see you going very far in the Watch, captain, if you go around seeing things that aren't there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The clock seemed to tick louder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're thinking something, sir. Aren't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is a use to which I occasionally put my brain, captain. Strange as it may seem.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are you thinking, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What they want me to think,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who's <em class="calibre9">they</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know yet. One step at a time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A bell tinkled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood up. “You know what I always say,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot removed his helmet and polished it with his sleeve. “Yes, sir. ‘Everyone's guilty of something, especially the ones that aren't,’ sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, not that one…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… ‘Always take into consideration the fact that you might be dead wrong,’ sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, nor that one either.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… ‘How come Nobby ever got a job as a watchman?’, sir? You say that a lot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! I meant ‘Always act stupid,’ Carrot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right, sir. From now on I shall remember that you always said that, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They put their helmets under their arms. Vimes knocked at the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come,” said a voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician was standing at the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sitting or standing around the office were Lord Rust and the others. Vimes never quite understood how the civic leaders were chosen. They just seemed to turn up, like a tack on the sole of your shoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Vimes,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let us not beat about the bush, Vimes. How did the man get up there when your people had so thoroughly checked everything last night? Magic?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't say, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot, still staring straight ahead, blinked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your people <em class="calibre9">did</em> check the Barbican, I assume?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They <em class="calibre9">didn't</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. I did that myself.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You physically checked it yourself, Vimes?” said Boggis of the Thieves' Guild.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Carrot could <em class="calibre9">feel</em> Vimes's thoughts at this point.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is correct… Boggis,” said Vimes, without turning his head. “But… we think someone got in where the windows are boarded up and pulled the boards back after him. Dust has been disturbed and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you didn't spot this, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “It'd be hard enough to spot the nailed-back boards in daylight, Boggis, let alone in the middle of the night.” Not that we did, he added to himself. Angua smelled the scent on them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari sat down at his desk. “The situation is grave, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His Highness is very seriously injured. And Prince Cadram, we understand, is beside himself with rage.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They <em class="calibre9">insist</em> on keeping his brother in the embassy,” said Lord Rust. “A studied insult. As if we haven't good surgeons in this city.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, of course,” said Vimes. “And many of them could give him a decent shave and a haircut too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you making fun of me, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly not, my lord,” said Vimes. “In my opinion, no surgeons anywhere have cleaner sawdust on their floors than the ones in this city.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust glared at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician coughed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You have identified the assassin?” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot was expecting Vimes to say, “Alleged assassin, sir,” but instead he said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. He is– He <em class="calibre9">was</em> called Ossie Brunt, sir. No other name that we know. Lived in Market Street. Did odd jobs from time to time. Bit of a loner. No relatives or friends that we can find. We are making enquiries.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that's all you fellows know?” said Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It took some time to identify him sir,” said Vimes stolidly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Why should that be?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't give you the technical answer, sir, but it looked to me like they wouldn't need to make him a coffin, they could just have posted him between two barn doors.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was he acting alone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We only found the one body, sir. And a lot of recently fallen masonry, so it looks as—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">meant</em> does he belong to any organization? Any suggestion that he's anti-Klatchian?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apart from him trying to kill one? Enquiries are continuing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you taking this <em class="calibre9">seriously</em>, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have put my best men on the job, sir.” <em class="calibre9">Who's looking worried</em>? “Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs.” <em class="calibre9">Who's looking relieved</em>? “Very experienced men. The keystones of the Watch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Colon and Nobbs?” said the Patrician. “Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their gazes met, very briefly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're getting some very threatening noises, Vimes,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What can I say, sir? I saw someone up on the tower, I ran, someone shot the Prince with an arrow and then I found the man at the bottom of the tower very obviously dead, with a broken bow and a lot of rock beside him. The storm last night probably loosened things up. I can't make up facts that don't exist, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot watched the faces round the table. The general expression was one of relief.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A lone bowman,” said Vetinari. “An idiot with some kind of mad grudge. Who died in the execution of the, uh, attempted execution. And, of course, valiant action by our watchmen probably at least prevented an immediately fatal shot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Valiant action?” said Downey. “I know Captain Carrot here ran towards the VIPs and Vimes headed for the tower, but frankly, Vimes, your strange behaviour beforehand—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Somewhat immaterial now,” said Lord Vetinari. Once again he adopted a slightly faraway voice, as if reporting to somebody else. “If Commander Vimes had not slowed down the procession, the wretch would undoubtedly have got a much better shot. As it was, the man panicked. Yes… the Prince, possibly, would accept that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince?” said Vimes. “But the poor devil—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His brother,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. The nice one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, commander,” said the Patrician. “Thank you, gentlemen. Do not let me detain you. Oh, Vimes… just a brief word, if you would be so good. Not you, Captain Carrot. I'm sure someone is committing some crime somewhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes remained staring at the far wall while the room emptied. Vetinari left his chair and went over to the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Strange days indeed, commander,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For example, I gather that this afternoon Captain Carrot was on the roof of the Opera House firing arrows down towards the archery butts.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very keen lad, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It could well be that the distance between the Opera House and the targets is about the same, you know, as the distance between the top of the Barbican and the spot where the Prince was hit.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just fancy that, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari sighed. “And why was he doing this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a funny thing, sir, but he was telling me the other day that in fact it is still law that every citizen should do one hour's archery practice every day. Apparently the law was made in 1356 and it's never been—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you know why I sent Captain Carrot away just now, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't say, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain Carrot is an honest young man, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And did you know that he winces when he hears you tell a direct lie?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really, sir?” <em class="calibre9">Damn</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't stand to see his poor face twitch all the time, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very thoughtful of you, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where was the second bowman, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Damn!</em> “Second bowman, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you ever had a hankering to go on the stage, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Yes, at the moment I'd leap on it wherever it's heading</em>, thought Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pity. I am certain you're a great loss to the acting profession. I believe you said the man had put the boards back after him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Nailed</em> them back?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Blast</em>. “Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“From the outside.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Damn</em>. “Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A particularly <em class="calibre9">resourceful</em> lone bowman, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't bother to comment. Vetinari sat down at his desk, raised his steepled fingers to his lips and stared at Vimes over the top of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Colon and Nobbs are investigating this? Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If I were to ask you why, you'd pretend not to understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes let his forehead wrinkle in honest perplexity “Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you say ‘Sir?’ again in that stupid voice, Vimes, I swear there will be trouble.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're good men, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“However, some people might consider them to be unimaginative, stolid and… how can I put this? …possessed of an inbuilt disposition to accept the first explanation that presents itself and then bunk off somewhere for a quiet smoke? A certain lack of imagination? An ability to get out of their depth on a wet pavement? A tendency to rush to judgement?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hope you are not impugning my men, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes, Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs have never <em class="calibre9">been</em> pugn'd in their entire lives.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And yet… in fact, we do not <em class="calibre9">need</em> complications, Vimes. An ingenious lone madman… well, there are many madmen. A regrettable incident.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.” The man was looking harassed and Vimes felt there was room for a pinch of sympathy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred and Nobby don't like complications either, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We need simple answers, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir. Fred and Nobby are <em class="calibre9">good</em> at simple.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician turned away and looked out over the city.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” he said, in a quieter voice. “Simple men to see the simple truth.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a fact, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are learning fast, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Couldn't say about that, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And when they have found the simple truth, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't argue with the truth, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In my experience, Vimes, you can argue with anything.” </div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">When Vimes had gone Lord Vetinari sat at his desk for a while, staring at nothing. Then he took a key from a drawer and walked across to a wall, where he pressed a particular area.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a rattle of a counterweight. The wall swung back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician walked softly through the narrow passageway beyond. Here and there it was illuminated by a very faint glow from around the edges of the little panels which, if gently slid back, would allow someone to look out through the eyesockets of a handy portrait.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They were a relic of a previous ruler. Vetinari never bothered with them. Looking out of someone else's eyes wasn't the trick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a certain amount of travel up dark stairways and along musty corridors. Occasionally he'd make movements the meaning of which might not be readily apparent. He'd touch a wall <em class="calibre9">here</em> and <em class="calibre9">here</em>, apparently without thinking, as he passed. Along one stone-flagged passage, lit only by the grey light from a window forgotten by everyone except the most optimistic flies, he appeared to play a game of hopscotch, robes flying around him and calves twinkling as he skipped from stone to stone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">These various activities did not seem to cause anything to happen. Eventually he reached a door, which he unlocked. He did this with some caution.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The air beyond was full of acrid smoke, and the steady <em class="calibre9">pop-pop</em> sound which he had begun to hear further back along the passage was now quite loud. It faltered for a moment, was followed by a much louder bang, and then a piece of hot metal whirled past the Patrician's ear and buried itself in the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the smoke a voice said, “Oh dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It didn't seem unhappy, but sounded rather like the voice one might use to a sweet and ingratiating little puppy which, despite one's best efforts, is sitting next to a spreading damp patch on the carpet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As the billows cleared the indistinct shape of the speaker turned to Vetinari with a wan little smile and said, “Fully fifteen seconds this time, my lord! There is no doubt that the <em class="calibre9">principle</em> is sound.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That was one of Leonard of Quirm's traits: he picked up conversations out of the air, he assumed everyone was an interested friend, and he took it for granted that you were as intelligent as he was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari peered at a small heap of bent and twisted metal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was it, Leonard?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An experimental device for turning chemical energy into rotary motion,” said Leonard. “The problem, you see, is getting the little pellets of black powder into the combustion chamber at exactly the right speed and one at a time. If two ignite together, well, what we have is the <em class="calibre9">external</em> combustion engine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And, er, what would be the purpose of it?” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe it could replace the horse,” said Leonard proudly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked at the stricken thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of the advantages of horses that people often point out,” said Vetinari, after some thought, “is that they very seldom explode. Almost never, in my experience, apart from that unfortunate occurrence in the hot summer a few years ago.” With fastidious fingers he pulled something out of the mess. It was a pair of cubes, made out of some soft white fur and linked together by a piece of string. There were dots on them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dice?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard smiled in an embarrassed fashion. “Yes. I can't think why I thought they'd help it go better. It was just, well, an idea. You know how it is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari nodded. He knew how it was. He knew how it was far more than Leonard of Quirm did, which was why there was one key to the door and he had it. Not that the man was a prisoner, except by dull, humdrum standards. He appeared rather grateful to be confined in this light, airy attic with as much wood, paper, sticks of charcoal and paint as he desired and no rent or food bills to pay.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In any case, you couldn't really imprison someone like Leonard of Quirm. The most you could do was lock up his body. The gods alone knew where his mind went. And, although he had so much cleverness it leaked continually, he couldn't tell you which way the political wind was blowing even if you fitted him with sails.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard's incredible brain sizzled away alarmingly, an overloaded chip pan on the Stove of Life. It was impossible to know what he would think of next, because he was constantly reprogrammed by the whole universe. The sight of a waterfall or a soaring bird would send him spinning down some new path of practical speculation that invariably ended in a heap of wire and springs and a cry of “I think I know what I did wrong.” He'd been a member of most of the craft guilds in the city but had been thrown out for getting impossibly high marks in the exams or, in some cases, correcting the questions. It was said that he'd accidentally blown up the Alchemists' Guild using nothing more than a glass of water, a spoonful of acid, two lengths of wire and a pingpong ball.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Any sensible ruler would have killed off Leonard, and Lord Vetinari was extremely sensible and often wondered why he had not done so. He'd decided that it was because, imprisoned in the priceless, enquiring amber of Leonard's massive mind, underneath all that bright investigative genius was a kind of wilful innocence that might in lesser men be called stupidity. It was the seat and soul of that force which, down the millennia, had caused mankind to stick its fingers in the electric light socket of the Universe and play with the switch to see what happened – and then be very surprised when it did.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was, in short, something useful. And if the Patrician was anything, he was the political equivalent of the old lady who saves bits of string because you never know when they might come in handy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After all, you couldn't plan for every eventuality, because that would involve knowing what was going to happen, and if you <em class="calibre9">knew</em> what was going to happen, you could probably see to it that it didn't, or at least happened to someone else. So the Patrician never planned. Plans often got in the way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, finally, he kept Leonard around because the man was easy to talk to. He never understood what Lord Vetinari was talking about, he had a world view about as complex as that of a concussed duckling and, above all, never really paid attention. This made him an excellent confidant. After all, when you seek advice from someone it's certainly not because you want them to give it. You just want them to be there while you talk to yourself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've just made some tea.” said Leonard. “Will you join me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He followed the Patrician's gaze to a brown stain all up one wall, which ended in a star of molten metal in the plaster.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid the automatical tea engine went wrong,” he said. “I shall have to make it by hand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So kind,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down amidst the easels and, while Leonard busied himself at the fireplace, leafed through the latest sketches. Leonard sketched as automatically as other people scratched; genius – a certain <em class="calibre9">kind</em> of genius – fell off him like dandruff.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a picture of a man drawing, the lines catching the figure so accurately it appeared to stand out of the paper. And around it, because Leonard never wasted white space, were <em class="calibre9">other</em> sketches, scattered aimlessly. A thumb. A bowl of flowers. A device, apparently, for sharpening pencils by water power…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari found what he was looking for in the bottom lefthand corner, sandwiched between a sketch for a new type of screw and a tool for opening oysters. It, or something very much like it, was always there somewhere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the things that made Leonard such a rare prize, and kept him under such secure lock and key, was that he really didn't see any difference between the thumb and the roses and the pencil-sharpener and <em class="calibre9">this</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, the self-portrait,” said Leonard, returning with two cups.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, indeed,” said Vetinari. “But my eye was drawn to this little sketch here. The war machine…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that? A mere nothing. Have you ever noticed the way in which the dew on roses—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This bit here… what is it for?” said Vetinari, pointing persistently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that? That's just the throwing arm for the balls of molten sulphur,” said Leonard, picking up a plate of small cakes. “I calculate that one should get a range of almost half a mile, if one detaches the endless belt from the driving wheels and uses the oxen to wind the windlass.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vetinari, taking in the carefully numbered parts. “And it could be built?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh, yes. Macaroon? In theory.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In theory?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one would ever actually do it. Raining unquenchable fire down upon fellow humans? Hah!” Leonard sprayed macaroon crumbs. “You'd never find an artisan to build it, or a soldier who would pull the lever… That's part 3(b) on the plan, just here, look…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes,” said Vetinari. “Anyway,” he added, “I imagine these huge power arms here couldn't possibly be operated without them breaking…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Seasoned ash and yew, laminated and held together by special steel bolts,” said Leonard promptly. “I made a few calculations, just there below the sketch of light on a raindrop. As an intellectual exercise, obviously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari ran his eye along several lines of Leonard's spidery mirror-writing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes,” he said glumly. He put the paper aside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have I told you that the Klatchian situation is intensely political? Prince Cadram is trying to do a great deal very fast. He needs to consolidate his position. He is depending on support that is somewhat volatile. There are many plotting against him, I understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, this is the sort of thing people do,” said Leonard. “Incidentally, I've recently been examining cobwebs and, I know this will interest you, their strength in relation to their weight is much greater even than our best steel wire. Isn't that fascinating?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind of weapon do you intend to make out of them?” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, nothing. I was just thinking aloud.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you haven't touched your tea,” said Leonard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari looked around the room. It was full of… <em class="calibre9">things</em>. Tubes and odd paper kites and things that looked like the skeletons of ancient beasts. One of Leonard's saving graces, in a very <em class="calibre9">real</em> sense from Vetinari's point of view, was his strange attention span. It wasn't that he soon got bored with things. He didn't seem to get bored with <em class="calibre9">anything</em>. But since he was interested in everything in the universe all the time the end result tended to be that an experimental device for disembowelling people at a distance then became a string-weaving machine and ended up as an instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of cheese.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was as easily distracted as a kitten. All that business with the flying machine, for example. Giant bat wings hung from the ceiling even now. The Patrician had been more than happy to let him waste his time on that idea, because it was obvious to anyone that no human being would ever be able to flap the wings hard enough.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He needn't have worried. Leonard was his own distraction. He had ended up spending ages designing a special tray so that people could eat their meals in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A truly innocent man. And yet always, always, some little part of him would sketch these wretchedly beguiling engines, with their clouds of smoke and carefully numbered engineering diagrams…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's this?” Vetinari said, pointing to yet another doodle. It showed a man holding a large metal sphere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That? Oh, something of a toy, really. Makes use of the strange properties of some otherwise quite useless metals. They don't like being <em class="calibre9">squeezed</em>. So they go bang. With extreme alacrity.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Another weapon…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly not, my lord! It would be no possible use as a weapon! I did think it might have a place in the mining industries, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For when they need to move mountains out of the way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me,” Vetinari said, putting this paper aside as well, “you don't have any relatives in Klatch, do you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't believe so. My family lived in Quirm for generations.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Good. But… very clever people in Klatch, are they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, in many disciplines they practically wrote the scroll. Fine metalwork, for example.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Metalwork…” The Patrician sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And Alchemy, of course. Affir Al-chema's <em class="calibre9">Principia Explosia</em> has been <em class="calibre9">the</em> seminal work for more than a hundred years.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Alchemy,” said the Patrician, glumly. “Sulphur and so forth…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, indeed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But the way you put it, these major achievements were some considerable time ago…” Lord Vetinari sounded like a man straining to see a light at the end of the tunnel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly! I would be astonished if they haven't made considerable progress!” said Leonard of Quirm happily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah?” The Patrician sank a little in his chair. It had turned out that the end of the tunnel was on fire.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A splendid people with much to recommend them,” said Leonard. “I always thought it was the presence of the desert. It leads to an urgency of thought. It makes you aware of the briefness of life.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician glanced at another page. Between a sketch of a bird's wing and a careful drawing of a ball-joint was a little doodle of something with spiked wheels and spinning blades. And then there was the device for moving mountains aside…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The desert is not required,” he said. He sighed again and pushed the pages aside. “Have you heard about the lost continent of Leshp?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. I did some sketches there a few years ago,” said Leonard. “Some interesting aspects, I recall. More tea? I fear you've let that one get cold. Was there anything you particularly wanted?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician pinched the bridge of his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not sure. There is a small problem developing. I thought perhaps you could help. Unfortunately,” the Patrician glanced at the sketches again, “I suspect that you can.” He stood up, straightened his robe and forced a smile. “You have everything you require?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some more wire would be nice,” said Leonard. “And I have run out of Burnt Umber.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall have some sent along directly,” said Vetinari. “And now, if you will excuse me—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He let himself out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard nodded happily as he cleared away the teacups. The infernal combustion engine was carried to the heap of scrap metal beside the small forge, and he fetched a ladder and removed the piston from the ceiling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd just opened out his easel to start work on a new design when he was aware of a distant pattering. It sounded like someone running but also occasionally pausing to hop sideways on one leg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then there was a pause, such as might be made by someone adjusting their clothing and getting their breath back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened and the Patrician returned. He sat down and looked carefully at Leonard of Quirm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You did <em class="calibre9">what</em>?” he said.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned the clove over and over under the magnifying glass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see tooth marks,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes sir,” said Littlebottom, who represented in her entirety the watch's forensic department. “Looks like someone was chewing it like a toothpick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat back. “I would say,” he said, “that this was last touched by a swarthy man of about my height. He had several gold teeth. And a beard. And a slight cast in one eye. Scarred. He was carrying a large weapon. Curved, I'd say. And you'd have to call what he was wearing a turban because it wasn't moving fast enough to be a badger.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Littlebottom looked astonished.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Detectoring is like gambling,” said Vimes, putting down the clove. “The secret is to know the winner in advance. Thank you, corporal. Write down that description and make sure everyone gets a copy, please. He goes by the name of 71-hour Ahmed, heaven knows why. And then go and get some rest.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned to face Carrot and Angua, who had crammed into the tiny little room, and nodded at the girl.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I followed the clove smell all the way down to the docks,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then I lost it, sir.” Angua looked embarrassed. “I didn't have any trouble through the fish market, sir. Or in the slaughterhouse district. And then it went into the spice market—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. I see. And didn't come out again?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In a way, sir. Or came out going fifty different ways. Sorry.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't be helped. Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I did what you said, sir. The top of the Opera House is about the right distance from our archery butts. I used a bow just like the one he used, sir—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised a finger. Carrot stared, and then said slowly: “…like the one you found next to him…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. And?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a Burleigh and Stronginthearm ‘Shureshotte Five’, sir. A bow for the expert. I'm not a great bowman but I could at least hit the target at that elevation. But…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm ahead of you,” said Vimes. “You're, a big lad, Carrot. Our late Ossie had arms like Nobby. I could put my hand round them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. It's a hundred-pound draw. I doubt if he could even pull the string back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd hate to watch him try. Good grief… the only thing he could be sure of hitting with a bow like that would be his foot. By the way, do you think anyone saw you up there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I doubt it, sir. I was right in among the chimneys and the air vents.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Captain, I expect if you'd done it in a cellar at midnight his lordship would have said ‘Wasn't it rather dark down there?’ next morning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took out the by now rather creased picture. There was Carrot – or at least Carrot's arm and ear – as he ran towards the procession. And there, among the people in the procession turning to look at him, was the face of the Prince. There was no sign of 71-hour Ahmed. He'd been at the soiree, hadn't he? But then there'd been all that milling around at the door, people changing places, treading on one another's robes, nipping back to the privy, walking into one another… He could have gone <em class="calibre9">anywhere</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the Prince fell as you got to him? With the arrow in his back? He was still facing you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. I'm sure of that. Everyone else was milling around, of course…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So he was shot in the back by a man in front of him who could not possibly have used the bow that he didn't shoot him with from the wrong direction…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a tapping at the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'll be Downspout,” said Vimes, without looking round. “I sent him on an errand…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Downspout never quite fitted in. It wasn't that he didn't get on with people, because he hardly ever <em class="calibre9">met</em> people, except those whose activities took them above, say, second-floor level. Constable Downspout's beat was the rooftops. Very slowly. He'd come down for the Watch's Hogswatch party and had poured gravy in his ears to show willing, but gargoyles got very nervy indoors at ground level and he had soon exited via the chimney and his paper squeaker had echoed out forlornly amongst the snowy rooftops all night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But gargoyles were good at watching, and good at remembering, and very, very good at being patient.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened the window. Moving jerkily, Downspout unfolded himself into the room and then quickly scrambled up on to a corner of Vimes's desk, for the comfort that it brought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua and Carrot stared at the arrow the gargoyle held in his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, well done,” said Vimes, in the same even voice. “Where did you find it, Downspout?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Downspout spluttered a series of guttural syllables only pronounceable by someone with a mouth shaped like a pipe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the wall on the second floor of the dress shop in the Plaza of Broken Moons,” Carrot translated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'eshk,” said Downspout.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's barely halfway to Sator Square, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Vimes. “A small weak man trying to pull a heavy bow, the arrow wobbling all over the place… Thank you very much, Downspout. There will be an extra pigeon for you this week.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'nkorr,” said Downspout, and clambered back out of the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, sir?” said Angua. She took the arrow from Vimes and, closing her eyes, sniffed at it gingerly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes… Ossie,” she said. “All over it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, corporal. It's as well to be sure.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot took the arrow from the werewolf and looked at it critically. “Huh. Peacock feathers and a plated point. It's the sort of thing an amateur buys because he thinks it'll magically improve his shot. Showy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes. “You, Carrot, and you, Angua… you're on the case.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir, I don't understand,” said Carrot. “I am perplexed. I thought you said Fred and Nobby were investigating this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs are investigating why the late Ossie tried to kill the Prince. And do you know what? They're going to find lots of clues. I just know it. I can feel it in my water.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we know he <em class="calibre9">couldn't</em>–” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Isn't this fun?” said Vimes. “I don't want you to get in Fred's way. Just… ask around. Try Done It Duncan, or Sidney Lopsides, hah, there's a man with his ear to the ground all right. Or the Agony Aunts, or Lily Goodtime. Or Mr Slider, haven't seen him around for a while, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's dead, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, Smelly Slider? When?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Last month, sir. He got hit by a falling bedstead. Freak accident, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one told <em class="calibre9">me</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were busy, sir. But you put some money in the envelope when Fred brought it round, sir. Ten dollars, which Fred remarked was very generous.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. Oh, yes, the envelopes. Fred was always wandering around with an envelope these days. Someone was always leaving, or some friend of the Watch was in trouble, or there was a raffle, or the tea money was low again, or some complicated explanation… so Vimes just put some money in. Simplest way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Old Smelly Slider…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You should've mentioned it,” he said reproachfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've been working hard, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any other street news you haven't mentioned, captain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not that I can think of, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right. Well… see which way the wind is blowing. Very carefully. And – trust no one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot looked worried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… I can trust Angua, can't I?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, of <em class="calibre9">course</em> you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you, presumably.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me, well, obviously. That goes without say—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Littlebottom? She can be very helpful—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cheery, yes, certainly you can trust—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Detritus? I always thought he was very trust—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Detritus, oh yes, he—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby? Should I—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot, I understand what he <em class="calibre9">means</em>,” said Angua, tugging his arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot looked a little crestfallen. “I've never liked… you know, underhand things,” he mumbled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want any written reports,” said Vimes, grateful for that small mercy. “This is… unofficial. But <em class="calibre9">officially</em> unofficial, if you see what I mean.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua nodded. Carrot just stayed looking dismal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She's a werewolf, thought Vimes, <em class="calibre9">of course</em> she understands. And you'd think a man who is technically a dwarf'd be able to fold his head around the idea of subterfuge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, just… listen to the streets,” said Vimes. “The streets know everything. Talk to… Blind Hugh—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid he passed away last month,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did he? No one told me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought I sent you a memo, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced guiltily at his overloaded desk, and then shrugged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have a quiet look at things. Get to the bottom of things. And trust no– Trust practically no one. All right? Except trustworthy people.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on, open up! Watch business!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Nobbs pulled at Sergeant Colon's sleeve and whispered in his ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Not</em> Watch business!” said Colon, pounding the door again. “Nothing to do with the Watch at all! We are just civilians, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened a crack.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said a voice that counted its small change.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have to ask you some questions, missus.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Are</em> you the Watch?” said the voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! I think I just made that clear—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Piss off, copper!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door slammed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You sure this is the right place, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Harry Chestnuts said he saw Ossie going in here. Come on, open up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone's looking at us, sarge,” said Nobby. Doors and windows had opened all along the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And don't call me sarge when we're in plain clothes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right you are, Fred.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's—” Colon hesitated in an agony of status. “Well, that's <em class="calibre9">Frederick</em> to you, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And they're giggling Fred… er… crick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We don't want to make a cock-up of this, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, Frederick. And that's Cecil, thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cecil?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is my name,” said Nobby coldly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have it your way,” said Colon. “Just remember who's the superior civilian around here, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He hammered on the door again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We hear you've got a room to let, missus!” he yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Brilliant, Frederick,” said Nobby. “That was bloody <em class="calibre9">brilliant</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I <em class="calibre9">am</em> the sergeant, right?” Colon whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yeah… right… well, just you remember that, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door snapped open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The woman within had one of those faces that had settled over the years, as though it had been made of butter and then left in the sun. But age hadn't been able to do much with her hair. It was a violent ginger and piled up like a threatening thunderhead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Room? You shoulda said,” she said. “Two dollars a week, no pets, no cookin', no wimmin after 6 a.m., if you don't want it thousands do, are you with the circus? You look like you're with the circus.”<a href="#_ftn5" title="5. Plain clothes was the problem. Both the men had been used to uniforms all their lives. Sergeant Colon's only suit had been bought by a man two stone lighter and ten years younger, so the buttons creaked under tension, and Nobby's idea of plain clothes was the ribbon-and-bell-bedecked costume he wore as a leading member of the Ankh-Morpork Folk Dance and Song Society. Small children had followed them in the street to see where the show was going to be."><sup class="calibre10">5</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're—” Colon began, and then stopped. There were undoubtedly a large number of things to be apart from policemen, but there and then he couldn't think of any of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—actors,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then it's payment a week in advance,” said the woman. “And no filthy foreign habits. This is a respectable house,” she added, in defiance of evidence so far.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We ought to see the room first,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, the choosy sort, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She led them upstairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The room vacated so terminally by Ossie was small and bare. A few items of clothing hung on nails in the wall, and a heap of wrappers and greasy bags indicated that Ossie had been a man who ate, as it were, off the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose is this stuff?” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, he's gone now. I <em class="calibre9">told</em> him he'd be out if he didn't pay up. I'll throw it out afore you settle in.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get rid of it for you,” said Sergeant Colon. He fumbled in his pouch and produced a couple of dollars. “Here you are, Miss—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Mrs</em> Spent,” said Mrs Spent. She gave them a lopsided look. “Are you both stopping here or what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nah, I've just come along as his chaperon,” said Colon, giving her a friendly grin. “He has to fight women off when they find out about his sexual magnetism.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Spent gave the shocked Nobby a sharp look and bustled out of the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What'd you go and say that for?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's got rid of her, hasn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were having a go at me, don't deny it! just because I'm going through a bit of an emotional wossname, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was just a joke, Nobby. Just a joke.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby peered under the narrow bed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wow!” he said, all emotional wossnames forgotten.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is it? What is it?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It looks like a complete run of <em class="calibre9">Bows and Ammo</em>! And…” Nobby pulled another stack of badly engraved magazines out into the light, “here's <em class="calibre9">Warrior of Fortune</em>, look! And <em class="calibre9">Practical Siege Weapons</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon leafed through page after page of very similarlooking people holding very similar weapons of personal destruction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You got to be a bit odd to sit around all day reading this kind of thing,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah,” said Nobby. “Here, don't put that one back, that's last August's issue, I ain't got that one. Hang on, there's a box right at the back…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He wriggled out, towing a small box with him. It was locked, but the cheap metal gave way when he accidentally levered at the lid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Silver coins gleamed. Lots and lots of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whoops…” he muttered. “We're in trouble now…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre9">Klatchian</em> money, that is!” said Colon. “Sometimes people slip you one instead of a half-dollar in your change. Look, there's all curly writing on them!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're in <em class="calibre9">big</em> trouble,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, no, no, this is a Clue what we have found by patient detectoring,” said Sergeant Colon. “And it's going to be a feather in our caps and no mistake when Mr Vimes hears about it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How much do you reckon there is?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got to be hundreds and hundreds of dollars' worth,” said Colon. “And that's a lot of money to a Klatchian. You can probably live like a king for a year on a dollar, in Klatch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It wasn't very patient detectoring,” said Nobby doubtfully. “All I did was look under the bed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, but that's because you is trained,” said Colon. “Your basic <em class="calibre9">civilian</em> wouldn't think of that, right? Ah, it all begins to make sense!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Does it? Why would the Klatchians give him money to shoot a Klatchian?” said Nobby..</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon tapped the side of his nose. “<em class="calibre9">Politics</em>,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, politics,” said Nobby. “Ah, well, politics. I see. <em class="calibre9">Politics</em>. Right. So why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha,” said Colon again, tapping the other side of his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why're you picking your nose, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm tapping it,” said Colon severely. “That's to show I'm in the know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the nose,” said Nobby cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's just the sort of underhand cunning thing they'd do,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Payin' us to kill them?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, you see, some Klatchian nob gets topped <em class="calibre9">here</em>, and then <em class="calibre9">they</em> can send a snotty note saying, ‘You killed our big nob, you foreign nephews of dogs, this means war!’ see? A perfect excuse.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you <em class="calibre9">need</em> an excuse to have a war?” said Nobby. “I mean, who for? Can't you just say, ‘You got lots of cash and land but I've got a big sword so divvy up right now, chop chop?’ That's what <em class="calibre9">I'd</em> do,” said Corporal Nobbs, military strategist. “And I wouldn't even say <em class="calibre9">that</em> until after I'd attacked.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, but that's 'cos you don't know about politics,” said Colon. “You can't do that stuff any more. Mark my words, this case has got politics written all over it. That's why old Vimes put me on it, depend upon it. Politics. Young Carrot's all very well, but you need a hexperienced man of the world in these delicate political situations.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You've certainly got the nose-tapping just right,” said Nobby. “I generally miss.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But he felt troubled, if not in his nose then in whatever small organ propelled his blood around his body. This didn't feel right. Nothing much in Nobby's life had ever felt right, so he knew very well how the feeling felt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked up at the bare walls and down at the rough floorboards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a bit of sand on the floor,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Another Clue, then,” said Colon happily. “A Klatchian has been here. Bugger all else but sand in Klatch. Still got some in his sandals.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby opened the window. It gave on to a gently sloping roof. Someone could get through it easily and be away over the tiles and into the maze of chimneys.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He could've gone in and out this way, sarge,” he volunteered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good point, Nobby. Write that down. Evidence of conniving and sneaking around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby peered down. “Here, there's glass outside, Fred…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon joined him at the stricken window. One of the panes had been smashed. Outside, glass glittered on the tiles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That could be a clue, eh?” said Nobby, hopefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It certainly is,” said Sergeant Colon. “See the glass fell <em class="calibre9">outside</em> the window? Everyone knows you look at which way the glass fails. I reckon he was just testing his bow and it went off while it was loaded.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's clever, sarge,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre9">detectoring</em>,” said Colon. “It's no good just <em class="calibre9">looking</em> at things, Nobby. You got to <em class="calibre9">think</em> straight, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Cecil</em>, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Frederick, Cecil. Come on, I think we've wrapped this up nicely. Old Vimes says he wants a report toot sweet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked out of the broken window. The roof abutted the end wall of a much larger warehouse. For a moment he found himself thinking bendy rather than straight, but he reasoned that his thinking was only a corporal's thinking, and worth far less per thought than a sergeant's thinking, so he kept his private thoughts to himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As they went downstairs Mrs Spent watched them suspiciously through a barely opened doorway at the far end of the hall, clearly ready to slam it shut at the first suggestion of any sexual magnetism.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not as if I even know where to <em class="calibre9">get</em> a sexual magnet,” Nobby muttered. “And she didn't even laugh.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">Also, we went to the bow shops in the Street of Cunning Artificers and showed the iconograph to the man in Burleigh and Stronginthearm, who vouchsafed, that is him, e.g., he was referring to the Diseased</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, my…” Vimes's lips moved slightly as his gaze went back up the page.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">also in addition to the Klatchian money you could tell one of them had been there because of, e.g., the sand on the floor</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He'd still got sand in his sandals?” murmured Vimes. “Good grief.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Sam</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked up from his reading.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your soup will be cold,” said Lady Sybil from the far end of the table. “You've been holding that spoonful in the air for the last five minutes by the clock.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are you reading?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, just a little masterpiece,” said Vimes, pushing Fred Colon's report aside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Interesting, is it?” said Lady Sybil a little sourly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Practically unparalleled,” said Vimes. “The only things they haven't found are the bunch of dates and the camel hidden under the pillow…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Belatedly, his nuptial radar detected a certain chilliness from the far side of the cruet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is, er, there something wrong, dear?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you remember when we last had dinner together, Sam?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tuesday, wasn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was the Guild of Merchants' annual dinner, Sam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's brow wrinkled. “But you were there too, weren't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A further subtle change in the dragonhouse quotient told him that this was not a well chosen answer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then you rushed off afterwards because of that business with the barber in Gleam Street.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sweeney Jones,” said Vimes. “Well, he <em class="calibre9">was</em> killing people, Sybil. The best you could say is that he didn't mean to. He was just very bad at shaving—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you didn't have to go, I'm sure.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Policing's a twenty-four-hour job, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only for you! Your constables do their ten hours and that's it. But you're <em class="calibre9">always</em> working. It's not good for you. You're always running around during the day, and when I wake up in the middle of the night there's always a cold space beside me…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dots hung in the air, the ghosts of words unsaid. Little things, thought Vimes. That's how a war starts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's so much to do, Sybil,” he said, as patiently as he could.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's always been a lot to do. And the bigger the Watch gets the <em class="calibre9">more</em> there is to do, have you noticed that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. That was true. Rotas, receipts, notebooks, reports… the Watch might or might not be making a difference in the city, but it was certainly frightening a lot of trees.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You ought to delegate,” said Lady Sybil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So he tells me,” muttered Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just thinking aloud, dear.” Vimes pushed the paperwork away. “I'll tell you what… let's have an evening in,” he said. “There's a nice fire in the drawing room—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no, Sam, there isn't.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hasn't young Forthright lit it?” Forthright was the Boy; it came as news to Vimes that this was an official servant position, but the Boy's job was to light the fires, clean the privies, help the gardener and take the blame.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's gone off to be a drummer boy in the Duke of Eorle's regiment,” said Lady Sybil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Him too? He seemed a bright lad! Isn't he too young?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He said he was going to lie about his age.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hope he lies about his musical ability. I've heard him whistling.” Vimes shook his head. “Whatever possessed him to do such a daft thing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He thinks the uniform will impress the girls.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sybil gave him a gentle smile. An evening at home suddenly began to seem very inviting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it won't take a genius to find the woodshed,” said Vimes. “And then we can bolt the doors and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the aforesaid doors shook to the sound of frantic knocking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes caught Sybil's gaze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go on, then. Answer it,” she sighed, and sat down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door admitted Corporal Littlebottom, seriously out of breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You… got to come quick, sir… it's… murder this… time!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked helplessly at his wife.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course you must go,” she said.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua brushed out her hair in front of the mirror.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't like this,” said Carrot. “It's not a proper way to behave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She patted him on the shoulder. “Don't <em class="calibre9">worry</em>,” she said. “Vimes explained it all. You're acting as though we're doing something <em class="calibre9">wrong</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I like being a watchman,” said Carrot, still in the mournful depths. “And you've got to wear a uniform. If you <em class="calibre9">don't</em> wear a uniform it's like spying on people. He <em class="calibre9">knows</em> I think that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua looked at his short red hair and honest ears.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've taken a lot of the work off his shoulders,” Carrot went on. “He doesn't have to go on patrol at <em class="calibre9">all</em>, but he still tries to do everything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps he doesn't want you to be quite so helpful?” said Angua, as tactfully as possible.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not as if he's getting any younger, either. I've tried to point that out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was kind of you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I've never <em class="calibre9">worn</em> plain clothes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On you they'll never be very plain,” said Angua, pulling on her coat. It was a relief to be out of that armour. As for Carrot, there was no disguising him. The size, the ears, the red hair, the expression of muscular good-naturedness…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose a werewolf is in plain clothes all the time, when you think about it,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you, Carrot. And you are absolutely right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just don't feel comfortable, living a lie.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Walk a mile on these paws.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh… nothing.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Goriff's son Janil had been angry. He didn't know why. The anger was built up of a lot of things. The firebomb last night was a big part. So were some of the words he'd been hearing in the street. He'd had an argument with his father about sending that food round to the Watch House this morning. They were an official part of the city. They had those stupid badges. They had uniforms. He was angry about a lot of things, including the fact that he was thirteen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So when, at nine in the evening while his father was baking bread, the door had slammed back and a man had rushed in, Janil had pulled his father's elderly crossbow from under the counter and aimed it where he thought the heart was and pulled the trigger.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot stamped his feet once or twice and looked around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here,” he said. “I was standing here. And the Prince was… in that direction.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua obediently walked across the square. Several people turned to look curiously at Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right… stop… no, on a bit… stop… turn a little bit to the left… I mean my left… back a bit… now throw your arms up…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked over to her and followed her gaze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He was shot from the University?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like the library building,” said Angua. “But a wizard wouldn't do it, surely? They keep out of that sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it's not too hard to get in there, even when the gates are shut,” said Carrot. “Let's try the unofficial way, shall we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“OK Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The false moustache… it's not you, you know. And the nose is far too pink”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Doesn't it make me look inconspicuous?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. And the hat… I should lose the hat, too. It is a <em class="calibre9">good</em> hat,” she added quickly. “But a brown bowler… it's not your style. It doesn't suit you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly!” said Carrot. “If it <em class="calibre9">was</em> my style, people would know it's me, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean it makes you look like a twerp, Carrot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do I normally look like a twerp?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha!” Carrot fumbled in the pocket of his large brown overcoat. “I got this book of disguises from the joke shop in Phedre Road, look. Funny thing, Nobby was in there buying stuff too. I asked him why and he said it was desperate measures. What d'you think he meant by that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't imagine,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's just amazing the stuff they've got. False hair, false noses, false beards, even false…” He hesitated, and began to blush. “Even false… you know, chests. For ladies. But I can't imagine for the life of me why they'd want to disguise those.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He probably couldn't, Angua thought. She took the very small book from Carrot and glanced through it. She sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot, these disguises are meant for a potato.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, they're all on potatoes, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought that was just for display.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot, it's got ‘Mr Spuddy Face’ on it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Behind his thick black moustache Carrot looked hurt and perplexed. “What does a potato want a disguise for?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd reached the alley alongside the University that had been known informally as Scholars' Entry for so many centuries that this was now on a nameplate at one end. A couple of student wizards went past.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The unofficial entrance to the University has always been known only to students. What most students failed to remember was that the senior members of the faculty had also been students once, and also liked to get out and about after the official shutting of the gates. This naturally led to a certain amount of embarrassment and diplomacy on dark evenings.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot and Angua waited patiently as a few more students climbed over, followed by the Dean.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good evening, sir,” said Carrot, politely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good evening to you, Spuddy,” said the Dean, and ambled off into the night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, but he didn't call me Carrot,” said Carrot. “The <em class="calibre9">principle</em> is sound.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They dropped down on to lawns of academia and headed for the library.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It'll be shut,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Remember, we have a man on the inside,” said Carrot, and knocked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened a little way. “Ook?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot raised his horrible little round hat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good evening, sir, I wonder if we could come in? It's Watch business.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook eek ook?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did he say?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you must know, he said, ‘My goodness me, a walking potato,’” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Librarian wrinkled his nose at Angua. He did not like the smell of werewolves. But he beckoned them inside and then left them waiting while he knuckled back to his desk and rummaged in a drawer. He produced a Watch Special Constable's badge on a string, which he hung around the general area where his neck should have been, and then stood as much to attention as an orang-utan can, which is not a great deal. The central ape gets the idea but outlying areas are slow to catch on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook ook!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was that ‘How may I be of assistance, Captain Tuber?’” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We need to have a look on the fifth floor, overlooking the square,” said Carrot, a shade coldly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook oook – ook.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says that's just old storerooms,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that last ‘ook’?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Mr Horrible Hat’,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Still, he hasn't worked out who you are, eh?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The fifth floor was a corridor of airless rooms, smelling sadly of old, unwanted books. They were stacked not on shelves but on wide racks, bundled up with string. A lot of them were battered and missing their covers. Judging by what remained, though, they were old textbooks that not even the most ardent bibliophile could treasure.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot picked up a torn copy of Woddeley's <em class="calibre9">Occult Primer</em>. Several loose pages fell out. Angua picked one up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Chapter Fifteen, Elementary Necromancy’,” she read aloud. “‘Lesson One: Correct Use of Shovel…’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She put it down again and sniffed the air. The presence of the Librarian filled the nasal room like an elephant in a matchbox, but—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Someone else has been in here,” she said. “In the last couple of days. Could you leave us, sir? When it comes to odours, you're a bit… forthright…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Librarian nodded at Carrot, shrugged at Angua and ambled out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't move,” said Angua. “Stay right where you are, Carrot. Don't disturb the air…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She inched forward carefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Her ears told her the Librarian was down the corridor, because she could hear the floorboards creaking. But her nose told her that he was still here. He was a little fuzzy, but—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm going to have to change,” she said. “I can't get a proper picture this way. It's too strange.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot obediently shut his eyes. Shed forbidden him to watch her en route from a human to a wolf, because of the unpleasant nature of the shapes in between. Back in Uberwald people went from one shape to the other as naturally as ordinary humans would put on a different coat, but even there it was considered polite to do it behind a bush.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he re-opened them Angua was slinking forward, her whole being concentrated in her nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">The olfactory presence of the Librarian was a complex shape, a mere purple blur where he had been moving but almost a solid figure where he'd been standing still. Hands, face, lips… they'd be just the centre of an expanding cloud in a few hours' time, but now she could still smell them out.</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">There must be only the tiniest air currents in here. There weren't even any flies buzzing in the dead air to cause a ripple of disturbance.</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">She edged nearer to the window. Vision was a mere shadowy presence, providing a charcoal sketch of a room over which the scents painted their glorious colours.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">By the window… by the window</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Yes! A man had stood there, and by the scent of it he hadn't moved for some time. The smell wavered in the air, on the edge of her nasal skill. The curling, billowing traces said that the window had been opened and closed again, and was there just the merest, tiniest suggestion that he'd held an arm out in front of him?</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Her nose raced, trying to form original shapes from the patterns hanging in the room like dead smoke</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When she'd finished, Angua went back to her pile of clothes and coughed politely while she was pulling on her boots.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There <em class="calibre9">was</em> a man standing by the window,” she said. “Long hair, a bit dry, stinks of expensive shampoo. He was the man who nailed the boards back after Ossie got into the Barbican.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you sure?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this nose ever wrong?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry. Go on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd say he was heavy-set, a bit bulky for his height. He doesn't wash a lot, but when he does he uses Windpike's Soap, the cheap brand. But expensive shampoo, which is odd. Quite new boots. And a green coat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can smell the colour?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. The dye. It comes from Sto Lat, I think. And… I <em class="calibre9">think</em> he shot a bow. An <em class="calibre9">expensive</em> bow. There's a hint of silk in the air, and that's what the strongest bowstrings are made of, isn't it? And you wouldn't put one of those on a cheap bow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot stood by the window. “He got a good view,” he said, and looked down at the floor. And then at the sill. And on the shelves nearby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long was he here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two or three hours, I'd say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He didn't move around much.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Or smoke, or spit. He just stood and waited. A professional. Mr Vimes was <em class="calibre9">right</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A lot more professional than Ossie,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Green coat,” said Carrot, as if thinking aloud. “Green coat, green coat…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh… and bad dandruff,” said Angua, standing up. </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Snowy Slopes?!</em>” shouted Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Really</em> bad dandruff?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes, it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's why they call him Snowy,” said Carrot. “Daceyville Slopes, the man with the reinforced comb. But I'd heard he'd moved to Sto Lat—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In unison they said: “—where the dye comes from—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is he good with a bow?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good. He's good at killing people he never met, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's an Assassin, is he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no. He just kills people for money. No style. Snowy can't read and write.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot scratched his head in sympathetic recollection. “He doesn't even look at complicated pictures. We'd have got him last year, but he shook his head fast and got away while we were trying to dig out Nobby. Well, well. I wonder where he's staying?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't ask me to follow him in these streets. Thousands of people will have walked over the trail.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there's people who will know. Someone sees everything in this town.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">MR SLOPES?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snowy Slopes gingerly felt his neck, or at least the neck of his soul. The human soul tends to keep to the shape of the original body for some time after death. Habit is a wonderful thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who the <em class="calibre9">hell</em> was he?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">NOT SOMEONE YOU KNOW? said Death.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, no! I don't know many people who cut my head off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Snowy Slopes's body had knocked against the table as it fell. Several bottles of medicated shampoo now dripped and mixed their contents into the other more intimate fluids from the Slopes corpse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That stuff with the special oil in it cost me nearly four dollars,” said Snowy. Yet, somehow, it all seemed slightly… irrelevant now. Death happens to other people. The other person in this case had been him. That is, the one down there. Not the one standing here looking at it. In life, Snowy hadn't even been able to <em class="calibre9">spell</em> “metaphysical”, but he was already beginning to view life in a different way. From the outside, for a start.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Four dollars,” he repeated. “I never even had time to try it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">IT WOULDN'T HAVE WORKED, said Death, patting the man on a fading shoulder. BUT, IF I MIGHT SUGGEST THAT YOU LOOK ON THE BRIGHT SIDE, IT WILL NO LONGER BE NECESSSARY.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No more dandruff?” said Snowy, now quite transparent and fading fast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">EVER, said Death. TRUST ME ON THIS.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Commander Vimes ran down darkened streets, trying to buckle on his breastplate as he ran.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, Cheery, what's happening?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say a Klatchian killed someone, sir. There's a mob up in Scandal Alley and it's looking bad. I was on the desk and I thought you ought to be told, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And anyway I couldn't find Captain Carrot, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A little bit of acid ink scribbled its subtle entry on the ledger of Vimes's soul.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, gods… so who's the officer in charge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Detritus, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It seemed to the dwarf that she was suddenly standing still. Commander Vimes had become a rapidly disappearing blur.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">With the calm expression of someone who was methodically doing his duty, Detritus picked up a man and used him to hit some other men. When he had a clear area around him and a groaning heap of former rioters, he climbed the heap and cupped his hands round his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Listen to me, youse people!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A troll shouting at the top of his voice could easily be heard above a riot. When he seemed to have their attention he pulled a scroll out of his breastplate and waved it over his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dis is der Riot Act,” he said. “You know what dat means? It means if'n I reads it out and youse don't disb… disp… go away, der Watch can use deadly force, you unnerstand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did you just use, then?” moaned someone from underneath his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dat was you helpin' der Watch,” said Detritus, shifting his weight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He unrolled the scroll.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Although there was some scuffling in alleyways and shouts from the next street, a ring of silence expanded outwards from the troll. An almost genetic component of the citizens of Ankh-Morpork was their ability to spot an opportunity for amusement.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus held the document at arm's length. And then a few inches from his face. He tried turning it round a few times.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His lips moved uneasily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Finally, he leaned down and showed it to Constable Visit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What dis word?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's ‘Whereby’, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I knew dat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He straightened up again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Whereby… it is…’” Beads of the troll equivalent of sweat began to form on Detritus's forehead. “‘Whereby it is… ack-no-legg-ed…’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Acknowledged,” whispered Constable Visit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I knew dat.” Detritus stared at the paper again, and then gave up. “Youse don't want to stand here listenin' to me all day!” he bellowed. “Dis is der Riot Act and you've all got to read it, right? Pass it round.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What if we don't read it?” said a voice in the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You got to read it. It <em class="calibre9">legal</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then what happens?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Den I shoot you,” said Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's not allowed!” said another voice. “You've got to shout ‘Stop! Armed Watchman!’ first.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sure, dat suits me,” said Detritus. He shrugged one huge shoulder to bring his crossbow under his arm. It was a siege bow, intended to be mounted on the cart. The bolt was six feet long. “It harder to hit runnin' targets.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He released the safety catch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyone finishing readin' dat thing yet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pushed his way through the crowd. And it <em class="calibre9">was</em> a crowd now. Ankh-Morpork was always a good audience.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a clang as Detritus saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Were you proposing to shoot these people in cold blood, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir. Just a warning shot inna head, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Just give me a moment to talk to them, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the man next to him. He was holding a flaming torch in one hand and a long length of wood in the other. He gave Vimes the nervously defiant stare of someone who has just felt the ground shift under his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled the torch towards him and lit a cigar. “What's happening here, friend?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchians have been shooting people, Mr Vimes! Unprovoked attack!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People have been killed!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I… there were… everyone <em class="calibre9">knows</em> they've been killing people!” The man's mental footsteps found safer ground. “Who do they think they are, coming over—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's enough,” said Vimes. He stood back and raised his voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I recognize a lot of you,” he said. “And I know you've got homes to go to. See this?” He pulled his baton of office out of his pocket. “This says I've got to keep the peace. So in ten seconds I'm going somewhere else to find some peace to keep, but Detritus is going to stay here. And I just hope he doesn't do anything to disgrace the uniform. Or get it very dirty, at least.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Irony was not a degree-level subject among the listeners, but the brighter ones recognized Vimes's expression. It said that here was a man hanging on to his patience by his teeth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The mob dispersed, going ragged at the edges as people legged it down side alleys, threw away their makeshift weapons and emerged at the other end walking the grave, thoughtful walk of honest citizens.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, what <em class="calibre9">happened</em>?” said Vimes, turning to the troll.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're hearing where dis boy shot dis man,” said Detritus. “We got here, next minute it rainin' people from everywhere, shoutin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He smote him as Hudrun smote the fleshpots of Ur,” said Constable Visit.<a href="#_ftn6" title="6. Constable Visit-The-Ungodly-With-Explanatory-Pamphlets was a good copper, Vimes always said, and that was his highest term of praise. He was an Omnian with his countrymen's almost pathological interest in evangelical religion and spent all his wages on pamphlets; he even had his own printing press. The results were handed out to anyone interested and everyone who wasn't interested as well. Even Detritus couldn't clear a crowd faster than Visit, Vimes said. And on his days off he could be seen tramping the streets with his colleague, Smite-TheUnbeliever-With-Cunning-Arguments. So far they hadn't made a single convert. Vimes thought that Visit was probably a really nice man underneath it all, but somehow he could never face the task of finding out."><sup class="calibre10">6</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Smote?” said Vimes, bewildered. “He killed someone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not by der way der man was cussing, sir,” said Detritus. “Hit him in der arm. His friends brought him round der Watch House to complain. He a baker on der night shift. He said he was late for work, he come runnin' in to pick up his dinner, next minute he flat on der floor.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes walked across the street and tried the door of the shop. It opened a little way, and then fetched up against what seemed to be a barricade. Furniture had been piled up against the window as well.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How many people were there, constable?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A multitude thereof, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And four people in here, thought Vimes. A family. The door moved a fraction and Vimes realized he was ducking even before the crossbow protruded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was the <em class="calibre9">thung</em> of the string. The bolt tumbled rather than sped. It corkscrewed wildly across the alley and was almost moving sideways when it hit the opposite wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look,” said Vimes, keeping his body down but raising his voice. “Anyone who got hit with <em class="calibre9">that</em>, it must have been an accident. This is the Watch. Open the door. Otherwise Detritus will open it. And when he opens a door, it stays open. You know what I mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was no reply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right. Detritus, just step over here—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a hissed argument inside, and then the sound of scraping as furniture was moved.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried the door. It swung inwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The family were at the far end of the room. Vimes felt eight eyes on him. The atmosphere had a hot, worrying feel, spiced with the smell of burnt food.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Goriff was holding the crossbow gingerly, and the expression on his son's face told Vimes a lot of what he needed to know.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All <em class="calibre9">right</em>,” he said. “Now you all listen to me. I'm not arresting anyone right now, you hear? This sounds like one of those things that make his lordship yawn. But you'd do better spending the rest of the night in the Watch House. I can't spare the men to stand guard here. Do you understand? I could arrest you. But this is just a request.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Goriff cleared his throat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The man I shot—” he began, and left the question and the lie hanging in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes forced himself not to glance at the boy. “Not badly hurt,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He… ran in,” said Mr Goriff. “And after last night—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You thought you were being attacked again and grabbed the crossbow?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said the boy, defiantly, before his father could speak.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a brief argument in Klatchian. Then Mr Goriff said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We must leave the house?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For your own good. We'll try to have someone watch it. Now, get something together and go off with the sergeant. And give me that crossbow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Goriff handed it over with a look of relief. It was a typical Saturday Night Special, so badly made and erratic that the only safe place to be when it was fired would be directly behind it, and even then you would be running a risk. And then no one had told its owner that under the counter in a steamy shop and a perpetual rain of grease wasn't the best place to keep it strung. The string sagged. Probably the only way you could reliably hurt someone with it was to beat them over the head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes waited until they'd been ushered out and took a last look around the room. It wasn't large. In the kitchen behind the shop something spicy in a pot was boiling dry. After burning his fingers a couple of times he managed to tip the pot on to the fire to put it out and then, vaguely remembering his mother doing something like this, put the pot under the pump to soak.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he barricaded the windows as best he could and went out, locking the door behind him. A discreetly obvious brass Thieves' Guild plaque over the door told the world that Mr Goriff had conscientiously paid his annual fee,<a href="#_ftn7" title="7. And would not, therefore, be officially burgled. Ankh-Morpork had a very direct approach to the idea of insurance. When the middle-man was cut out, that wasn't a figure of speech."><sup class="calibre10">7</sup></a> but the world had plenty of less formal dangers and so Vimes took a piece of chalk out of his pocket and wrote on the door:</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <strong class="calibre11">UNDER THEPROTECTION OF THEWATCH</strong>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">As an afterthought he signed it:</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <strong class="calibre11">SGTDETRITUS</strong>
      </div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">In the imaginations of the less civically minded the majesty of the rule of law didn't carry anything like as much weight as the dread of Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Riot Act! Where the <em class="calibre9">hell</em> had he dredged that from? Carrot, probably. It hadn't been used for as long as Vimes could remember, and that was no wonder when you knew what it really did. Even Vetinari would hesitate to use it. Now it was nothing more than a phrase. Thank goodness for trollish illiteracy…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was when Vimes stood back to admire his handiwork that he saw the glow in the sky over Park Lane, almost at the same time as he heard the clatter of iron boots on the street.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello, Littlebottom,” he said. “What now? Don't tell me – someone's set fire to the Klatchian embassy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, sir,” said the dwarf. She stood uncertainly in the middle of the alley, looking worried.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… you said—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a sinking feeling Vimes remembered that the generic dwarfish skill with iron was matched only by the fumblefingered grasp of irony.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchian embassy is <em class="calibre9">really</em> on fire?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Spent opened the door a crack.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm a friend of…” Carrot hesitated, wondering if Fred would have given his real name. “Er… big fat man, suit doesn't fit—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The one who goes around with the sex maniac?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Skinny little twerp, dresses like a clown?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They said you'd have a room,” said Carrot desperately.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They've got it,” said Mrs Spent, trying to shut the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They said I could use it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No sub-lettin'!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They said I should pay you two dollars!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The pressure of the door was released a little.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On top of what they paid?” said Mrs Spent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well…” She looked Carrot up and down and sniffed. “All right. What shift are you on?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're a watchman, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…” Carrot hesitated, and then raised his voice. “No, I am not a watchman. Haha, you think I'm a watchman? Do I look like a watchman?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, you do,” said Mrs Spent. “You're Captain Carrot. I <em class="calibre9">seen</em> you walking about the town. Still, I suppose even coppers have to sleep somewhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the roof, Angua rolled her eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No wimmin, no cookin', no music, no pets,” said Mrs Spent, as she led the way up the creaking stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua waited in the dark until she heard the window open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She's gone,” Carrot hissed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's glass on the tiles out here, just like Fred reported,” said Angua, as she swung herself over the sill. Inside the room she took a deep breath and shut her eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">First she had to forget the smell of Carrot – anxious sweat, soap, the lingering hints of armour polish…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">and Fred Colon, all perspiration with a hint of beer, and then the odd ointment Nobby used for his skin condition, and the smells of feet, bodies, clothes, polish, fingernails</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After an hour it was possible for the eye of the nose to see someone walk across the room, frozen in time by their smell. But after a day smells criss-crossed and entangled. You had to take them apart, remove the familiar pieces, and what you had left</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're so mixed up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right,” said Carrot soothingly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At least three people! But I think one of them is Ossie… It's stronger round the bed… and…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She opened her eyes wide and looked down at the floor. “Somewhere here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? What is?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua crouched down with her nose just above the floorboards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can smell it but I can't see it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A knife appeared in front of her. Carrot got down on his knees and ran the blade along the dust-filled crack between the floorboards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something splintery and brown popped up. It had been trodden on and rolled underfoot, but at this distance even Carrot could pick up traces of the clove smell. “Do you think Ossie made a lot of apple pies?” he whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No cookin', remember?” said Angua, and grinned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's something else…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot levered out more dirt and dust. In it, something glittered. “Fred said all the glass was outside, didn't he?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, supposing we assume that someone didn't pick up <em class="calibre9">all</em> the bits when they broke in?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For someone that doesn't like lying, Carrot, you can be quite devious, you know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just logical. There's glass outside the window, but all that means is that there is glass outside the window. Commander Vimes always says there're no such things as dues. It's how you look at them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You think someone broke in and then carefully put the glass outside?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could be.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot? Why are we whispering?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No wimmin, remember?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And no pets,” said Angua. “So she's got me coming <em class="calibre9">and</em> going. Don't look like that,” she added, when she saw his face. “It's only bad taste if someone else says it. <em class="calibre9">I'm</em> allowed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot scratched up some more glass fragments. Angua looked under the bed and pulled out the battered magazines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ye gods, do people really read this stuff?” she said, flicking through <em class="calibre9">Bows and Ammo</em>. “‘Testing the Locksley Reflex 7: A Whole Lotta Bow’… ‘Footsore! We test the Ten Best Caltrops!’… and what's this magazine…? <em class="calibre9">Warrior of Fortune</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's always little wars somewhere,” said Carrot, pulling out the box of money.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But will you look at the size of this axe here? ‘Get A Head, Get A Burleigh and Stronginthearm “Streetsweeper” and Win By A Neck!’ Well, it must be true what they say about men who like big weapons…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that is?” said carrot, lifting the lid of the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She looked at the top of his head. As always, Carrot radiated innocence like a small sun. But he'd… They'd… <em class="calibre9">Surely</em> he…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They, er… they're rather small,” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that's true,” said Carrot, picking up some of the Klatchian coins. “Look at dwarfs. Never happier than with a chopper the same size as them. And Nobby's <em class="calibre9">fascinated</em> by weapons and he's practically dwarfsized.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Technically, Angua was sure she knew Carrot better than anyone else. She was pretty sure he cared a lot for her. He seldom said so, he just assumed that she knew. She'd known other men, although turning into a wolf for part of the month was one of those little flaws that could put any <em class="calibre9">normal</em> man off and, up until Carrot, always had. And she knew the sort of things men said in what might be called the heat of the moment and then forgot. But when Carrot said things, you knew that he felt that everything was now settled until further notice, so if she made any comment he'd be genuinely surprised that she'd forgotten what it was he had said and would probably quote date and time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And yet all the time there was this feeling that the greater part of him was always deep, deep inside, looking out. No one could be so simple, no one could be so creatively <em class="calibre9">dumb</em>, without being very intelligent. It was like being an actor. Only a very good actor was any good at being a bad actor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Rather a lonely person, our Nobby,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But Im sure he'll find the right person for him,” Carrot added, cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Probably in a bottle, said Angua to herself. She remembered the conversation with him. It was a terrible thing to think, but there was somethin itchy about the thought of Nobby being allowed in pool, even at the shallow end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, these coins are odd,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you mean?” said Angua, grateful for the distraction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why would he be paid in Klatchian <em class="calibre9">wols</em>? He wouldn't be able to spend them here, and the money changers don't give very good rates.” Carrot tossed a coin in the air and caught it. “When we were leaving, Mr Vimes said to me, ‘Make sure you find the bunch of dates and the camel hidden under the pillow.’ I think I know what he meant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sand on the floor,” said Angua. “Now, isn't that an <em class="calibre9">obvious</em> clue? You can tell they were Klatchian because of the sand in their sandals!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But these cloves…” Carrot prodded the little bud. “It's not as if it's a common habit, even among Klatchians. <em class="calibre9">That's</em> not a very obvious clue, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It smells newer,” said Angua. “I'd say he was here last night.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">After</em> Ossie was dead?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How should I know? What kind of name is 71-hour Ahmed?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot shrugged. “I don't know. I think Mr Vimes thinks that someone in Ankh-Morpork wants us to believe that Klatchians paid to have the Prince killed. That sounds… nasty but logical. But I don't understand why a <em class="calibre9">real</em> Klatchian would get involved…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their eyes met.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Politics?” they said together.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For enough money, a lot of people would do <em class="calibre9">anything</em>,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a sudden and ferocious knocking at the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you got someone in there?” said Mrs Spent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Out of the window!” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why don't I just stay and rip her throat out?” said Angua. “All right, all right, it was a <em class="calibre9">joke</em>, all right?” she said, swinging her legs over the sill.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Ankh-Morpork no longer had a fire brigade. The citizens had a rather disturbingly direct way of thinking at times, and it did not take long for people to see the rather obvious flaw in paying a group of people by the number of fires they put out. The penny really dropped shortly after Charcoal Tuesday.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Since then they had relied on the good old principle of enlightened self-interest. People living close to a burning building did their best to douse the fire, because the thatch they saved might be their own.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the crowd watching the burning embassy were doing so in a hollow-eyed, distant way, as if it was all taking place on some distant planet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They moved aside automatically as Vimes elbowed his way through to the space in front of the gates. Flames were already licking from every ground-floor window, and they could make out scurrying silhouettes in the flickering light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to the crowd. “Come on! What's up with you? Get a bucket chain going!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's <em class="calibre9">their</em> bloody embassy,” said a voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah. 's Klatchian soil, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't go on Klatchian soil.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd be an <em class="calibre9">invasion</em>, that would.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They wouldn't let us,” said a small boy holding a bucket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the embassy gateway. There were a couple of guards. Their worried glances kept going back from the fire behind them to the crowd in front. They were nervous men, but it was much worse than that, because they were nervous men holding big swords.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He advanced on them, trying to smile and holding his badge out in front of him. It had a shield on it. It was not a very big shield.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander Vimes, Ankh-Morpork City Watch,” he said, in what he hoped was a helpful and friendly voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A guard waved him away. “<em class="calibre9">H</em>you be off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah…” said Vimes. He looked down at the cobbles of the gateway and then back up at the guard. Somewhere in the flames someone was screaming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You! Come here! You see this?” he shouted at the guard, pointing down. The man took a hesitant step forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's Ankh-Morpork soil down there, my friend,” said Vimes. “And you're standing on it and you're obstructing me in my—” he rammed his fist as hard as he could into the guard's stomach “—duty!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was already kicking out as the other guard rushed him. He caught him on the knee. Something went click. It felt like Vimes's own ankle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cursing and limping slightly, he ran on into the embassy and caught a scurrying man by his robe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are there people still in there? Are there <em class="calibre9">people</em> in there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man gave Vimes a panicky look. The armfuls of paper he'd been carrying spilled on to the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone else grabbed his shoulder. “Can you climb, Mr Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who're—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The newcomer turned to the cowering paper-carrier and struck him heavily across the face. “Rescuer of paper!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As the man fell back his turban was snatched from his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This way!” The figure plunged off through the smoke. Vimes hurried after him until they reached a wall, with a drainpipe attached.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How did you—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Up! Up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes put one foot in the man's cupped hands, managed to get the other one on a bracket, and forced himself upwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hurry!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He managed to half climb, half pull himself up the pipe, little fireworks of pain exploding tip and down his legs as he reached a parapet and hauled himself over. The other man rose behind him as if he'd run up the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a strip of cloth hiding the lower half of his face. He thrust another strip towards Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Across your nose and mouth!” he commanded. “For the smoke!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was boiling across the roof. Beside Vimes a chimneypot gushed a roaring tongue of flame.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The rest of the unwound turban was thrust into his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You take this side, I'll take the other,” said the apparition, and darted away again into the smoke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But wh—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes could feel the heat through his boots. He edged away across the roof, and heard the shouting coming from below.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he leaned over the edge here he could see the window some way below him. Someone had smashed a pane, because a hand was waving.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more commotion down in the courtyard. Amid a press of figures he could make out the huge shape of Constable Dorfl, a golem and quite definitely fireproof. But Dorfl was bad enough at stairs as it was. There weren't many that could take the weight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The hand in the smoke stopped waving.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked down again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Can you fly, Mr Vimes</em>?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at the chimney, belching flame.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at the unwound turban.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A lot of Sam Vimes's brain had shut down, although the bits relaying the twinges of pain from his legs were operating with distressing efficiency. But there were still some thoughts operating down around the core, and they delivered for his consideration the insight:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">tough-looking cloth</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked back at the chimney. It looked stout enough.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The window was about six feet below.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes began to move automatically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So, purely theoretically, if a man were to wrap one end of the cloth round the belching stack like <em class="calibre9">this</em> and pay it out like <em class="calibre9">this</em> and lower himself over the parapet like <em class="calibre9">this</em> and kick himself away from the wall like <em class="calibre9">this</em>, then when he swung back again his feet ought to be able to smash his way through the other panes of the window, like <em class="calibre9">this</em>…</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A cart squeaked along the wet street. Its progress was erratic because no two of its wheels were the same size, so it rocked and wobbled and skidded and probably involved more effort to pull than it saved overall, especially since its contents appeared to be rubbish. But then, so did its owner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Who was about the size of a man, but bent almost double, and was covered with hair or rags or quite possibly a matted mixture of both that was so felted and unwashed that small plants had taken root on it. If the thing had stopped walking and crouched down, it would have given an astonishingly good impression of a long-neglected compost heap. As it walked along, it snuffled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A foot was stuck out to impede its progress.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good evening, Stoolie,” said Carrot as the cart halted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The heap stopped. Part of it tilted upwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Geroff,” it muttered, from somewhere in the thatch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, now, Stoolie, let's help one another, shall we? You help me, and I'll help you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“B'g'r'ff, c'p'r.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you tell <em class="calibre9">me</em> things I want to know,” said Carrot, “and I won't search your cart.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hate gnolls,” said Angua. “They smell <em class="calibre9">awful</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that's hardly fair. The stressed be a lot dirtier without you and yours, eh, Stoolie?” said Carrot, still speaking quite pleasantly. “You pick up this, you pick up that, maybe bash it against a wall until it stops struggling—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s a vile acur'cy,” said the gnoll. There was a bubbling noise that might have been a chuckle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So I'm hearing you might know where Snowy Slopes is these days,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D'nno n'thin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine.” Carrot produced a three-tined garden fork and walked round to the cart, which dripped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D'nno n'thin' <em class="calibre9">ab't</em>–” said the gnoll quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said Carrot, fork poised.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D'nno n'thin' ab't t' sweetsp'p'n M'ney Tr'p L'ne.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The one with the Rooms To Let sign?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“R't.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done. Thank you for being a good citizen,” said Carrot. “Incidentally, we passed a dead seagull the way here. Its in Brewer Street. I bet if you hurried you could beat the rush.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“H't d'gg'ty,” snuffled the gnoll. The cart started to judder forward. The watchmen watched it lurch and scrape around the corner.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're good fellows at heart,” said Carrot. “I think it says a lot for the spirit of tolerance in this city that even gnolls can call it home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They turn my stomach,” said Angua, as they set off again. “That one had plants growing on him!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Vimes says we ought to do something for them,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All heart, that man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With a flamethrower, he says.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wouldn't work. Too soggy. Has anyone ever <em class="calibre9">really</em> found out what they eat?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's better to think of them as… cleaners. You certainly don't see as much rubbish and dead animals on the streets as you used to.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but have you ever seen a gnoll with a brush and shovel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that's society for you, I'm afraid,” said Carrot. “Everything is dumped on the people below until you find someone who's prepared to eat it. That's what Mr Vimes says.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Angua. They walked in silence for a while, and then she said. “You care a lot about what Mr Vimes says, don't you…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He is a fine officer and an example to us all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And… you've never thought of getting a job in Quirm or somewhere, have you? The other cities are headhunting Ankh-Morpork watchmen now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, leave Ankh-Morpork?” The tone of voice included the answer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No… I suppose not,” said Angua sadly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, I don't know what Mr Vimes would do without me running around all the time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a point of view, certainly,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't far to Money Trap Lane. It was in a ghetto of what Lord Rust would probably call “skilled artisans”, the people too low down the social scale to be movers and shakers but slightly too high to be easily moved or shook. The sanders and polishers, generally.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The people who hadn't got very much but were proud even of that. There were little clues. Shiny house numbers, for a start. And, on the walls of houses that were effectively just one long continuous row, after centuries of building and inbuilding, very careful boundaries in the paint where people had brushed up to the very border of their property and not a gnat's blink to each side. Carrot always said it showed the people were the kind who instinctively realized that civilization was based on a shared respect for ownership; Angua thought they were just tight little bastards who'd sell you the time of day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot walked noiselessly down the alley beside the sweetshop. There was a rough wooden staircase going up to the first floor. He pointed silently to the midden below it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It seemed to consist almost entirely of bottles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Big drinker?” Angua mouthed. Carrot shook his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She crouched down and looked at the labels, but her nose was already giving her a hint. <em class="calibre9">Dibbler's Homeopathic Shampoo. Mere and Stingbat's Herbal Wash – with Herbs! Rinse 'n' Run Scalp Tonic – with Extra Herbs!</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were others. Herbs, she thought. Chuck a handful of weeds in the pot and you've got herbs…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot was starting up the stairs when she put her hand on his shoulder. There was another smell. It was one that drove through all the other scents of the streets like a spear. It was one that a werewolf's nose is particularly attuned to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He nodded and went carefully to the door. Then he pointed down. There was a stain under the gap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot drew his sword and kicked the door open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Daceyville Slopes hadn't taken his condition lightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Bottles of all shapes and colours occupied most flat surfaces, giving testimony to the alchemist's art and humanity's optimism.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The suds of his latest experiment were still in a bowl on the table, and his body on the floor had a towel around his neck. The watchmen looked down at it. Snowy had cleaned, washed and gone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we can say life is extinct,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yuk,” said Angua. She grabbed the open shampoo bottle and sniffed deeply. The sickly scent of marinated herbs assailed her sinuses, but anything was better than the sharp, beguiling smell of blood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder where his head is at?” said Carrot, in a determinedly matter-of-fact voice. “Oh, it's rolled over there… What's the horrible smell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This!” Angua flourished the shampoo. “Four dollars a bottle, it says. Sheesh!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua took another deep sniff at the herbal goo, to drown out the call of the wolf.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Doesn't look as if they stole anything,” said Carrot. “Unless they were very neat– What's the matter?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't ask!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She managed to get a window open and sucked down great draughts of comparatively fresh air, while Carrot went through the corpse's pockets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… you can't tell if there's a clove around, can you?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot! Please! This is a room with blood all over the floor! Have you <em class="calibre9">any idea</em>? Excuse me…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She rushed out and down the steps. The alley had the generic smell of all alleys everywhere, overlaid on the basic all-embracing smell of the city. But at least it didn't make your hair grow and your teeth try to lengthen. She leaned against the wall and fought for control. Shampoo? She could have saved Snowy a hell of a lot of money with just one careful bite. Then he'd know all about a <em class="calibre9">really</em> bad hair day…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot came down a couple of minutes later, locking the door behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you feeling better?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was something else,” said Carrot, looking thoughtful. “I think he wrote a note before he died. But it's all rather odd.” He waved in the air what looked like a cheap notepad. “This needs careful looking at.” He shook his head. “Poor old Snowy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He was a killer!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but that's a nasty way to die.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Decapitation? With a very sharp sword, by the look of it. I can think of worse.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but I can't help thinking that if only the chap had better hair or had found the right shampoo at an early age he'd have led a different life…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, at least he won't have to worry about dandruff any more.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was a little tasteless.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, but you know how blood makes me, tense.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Your</em> hair always looks amazing,” said Carrot, changing the subject with, Angua thought, unusual tact. “I don't know what you use, but it's a shame he never tried it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I doubt if he went to the right shop,” said Angua. “It says ‘For a Glossy Coat’ on the bottles I usually buy– What's the matter?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you smell smoke?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot, it's going to be five minutes before I can smell <em class="calibre9">anything</em> except—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But he was staring past her, at the big red glow in the sky.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes coughed. And then coughed some more. And eventually opened his streaming eyes in the confident expectation of seeing his own lungs in front of him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Glass of water, Mr Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes peered through the tears at the shifting shape of Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thanks, Fred. What's the horrible burning smell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's you, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was sitting on a low wall outside the wreck of the embassy. Cool air washed around him. He felt like underdone beef. The heat was <em class="calibre9">radiating</em> off him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You was passed on for a while there, sir,” said Sergeant Colon helpfully. “But everyone saw you swing in that window, sir! <em class="calibre9">And</em> you threw that woman out for Detritus to catch! That'll be a feather in your cap and no mistake, sir! I bet the ragh– I bet the Klatchians'll be giving you the Order of the Camel or something for <em class="calibre9">this</em> night's work, sir!” Colon beamed, bursting with pride by association.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A feather in my cap…” murmured Vimes. He undid his helmet and with a certain amount of exhausted delight saw that every single plume had been burned to a stub.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He blinked slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about the man, Fred? Did he get out?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was…” Vimes blinked again. Various parts of his body, aware that he hadn't been taking calls, were ringing in to complain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There had been… <em class="calibre9">some man? Vimes had landed on a bed or something, and there was a woman clutching at him, and he had smashed out what was left of the window, seen the big, broad and above all strong arms of Detritus down below, and had thrown her out as politely as the circumstances allowed. Then the man from the roof had come out of the smoke again, carrying another figure over his shoulder, screamed something at him and beckoned him to follow and</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…<em class="calibre9">then the floor had given way</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There were… two other people in there,” he said, coughing again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They didn't get out the front way, then,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How did <em class="calibre9">I</em> get out?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Dorfl was stamping on the fire down below, sir. Very handy, a ceramic constable. You landed right on him, so of course he stopped what he was doing and brought you out. 's gonna be handshakes and buns all round in the morning, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There weren't any right now, Vimes noted There were still plenty of people around, carrying bundles, putting out small fires, arguing with one another… but there was a big hole where congratulating-the-hero-of-the-hour should have been.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, everyone's always a bit preoccupied after something like this, sir,” said Colon, as if reading his thoughts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I'll have a nice cold bath,” said Vimes, to the world in general. “And then some sleep. Sybil's got some wonderful ointment for burns… Ah, hello, you two.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We saw the fire—” Carrot began, running up. “Is it all over?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Vimes saved the day!” said Sergeant Colon excitedly. “Just went straight in and saved everyone, in the finest tradition of the Watch!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred?” said Vimes, wearily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred, the finest tradition of the Watch is having a quiet smoke somewhere out of the wind at 3 a.m. Let's not get carried away, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon looked crestfallen. “Well—” He began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes staggered to his feet and patted his sergeant on the back</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, all right, it's a tradition,” he conceded. “You can do the next one, Fred. And now,” he steadied himself as he stood up, “I'm going down to the Yard to write my report.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're covered in ash and you're swaying,” said Carrot. “I should just get on home, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh no,” said Vimes. “Got to do the paperwork. Anyone know the time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!” said a cheerful voice from his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn!” said Vimes, but it was too late.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is,” said the voice, which had the squeaky friendly quality that begs to be strangled, “about… nineish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nineish?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yep. Nineish. Precisely about nineish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rolled his eyes. “<em class="calibre9">Precisely</em> about nineish?” he said, pulling a small box out of his pocket and opening the lid. The demon inside gave him an angry look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yesterday you <em class="calibre9">said</em>,” it said, “that if I, and I quote, Didn't Stop all that Eight Fifty-Six and Six Seconds Precisely business I Would Be Looking at a Hammer From Below. And when I said, Mr Insert Name Here, that this would invalidate my warranty, you said that I could take my warranty and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you'd lost that thing,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah,” said the Dis-organizer, “really? You thought he did? I don't call putting something in your trouser pockets just before they go into the wash <em class="calibre9">losing</em> it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was an accident,” muttered Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Oh? And dropping me in the dragon's feeding bowl, that was accidental too, was it?” The demon mumbled to itself for a moment and then said, “Anyway, do you want to know your appointments for this evening?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the smouldering wreckage of the embassy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do tell,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't have any,” said the demon sulkily. “You haven't told me any.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You see?” said Vimes. “<em class="calibre9">That's</em> what drives me lived! Why should I have to tell you? Why didn't you tell me, ‘Eightish: break up riot at Mundane Meals and stop Detritus shooting people,’ eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You didn't tell me to tell you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't <em class="calibre9">know</em>! And that's how real life works! How can I tell you to warn me about things that no one knows are going to happen? If you were any good, that'd be your job!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He writes in the manual,” said the demon nastily. “Did you know that, everybody? <em class="calibre9">He writes in the manual</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, of course I make notes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's actually sneakily trying to keep his diary in the manual so his wife won't find out he's never bothered to learn how to use me,” said the demon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about the <em class="calibre9">Vimes</em> manual, then?” snapped Vimes. “I notice you've never bothered to learn how to use me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The demon hesitated. “Humans come with a manual?” it said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It'd be a damn good idea!” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“True,” murmured Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It could say things like ‘Chapter One: Bingeley-bingeley beep and other damn fool things to spring on people at six in the morning,’” said Vimes, his eyes wild. “And ‘Toubleshooting: my owner keeps trying to drop me in the privy, what am I doing wrong?’ And—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot patted him gently on the back. “I should sign off now, sir,” he said gently. “It's been a busy few days.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rubbed his forehead. “I daresay I <em class="calibre9">could</em> do with a rest,” he said. “Come on, there's nothing more to see here. Let's go home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you said you weren't going—” Carrot began, but Vimes's mind was already scolding him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant the Yard, of course,” he said. “I'll go <em class="calibre9">home</em> afterwards.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A ball of lamplight floated through the Ramkin library, drifting across the shelves of huge, leatherbound books.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Many of them had never been read, Sybil knew. Various ancestors had simply ordered them from the engravers and put them on the shelves, because a library was something you had to have, don'tcherknow, like a stableyard and a servants' wing and some ghastly landscaping mistake created by “Bloody Stupid” Johnson, although in the latter case her grandfather had shot the man before he could do any real damage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She held the lamp higher.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ramkins looked down their noses at her from their frames, through the brown varnish of the centuries. Portraits were another thing that had been collected out of unregarded habit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Most of them were of men. They were invariably in armour and always on horseback. And every single one of them had fought the sworn enemies of Ankh-Morpork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In recent times this had been quite difficult and her grandfather, for example, had to lead an expedition all the way to Howondaland in order to find some sworn enemies, although there was an adequate supply and a lot of swearing by the time he left. Earlier, of course, it had been a lot easier. Ramkin regiments had fought the city's enemies all over the Sto Plains and had inflicted heroic casualties, quite often on people in the opposing armies.<a href="#_ftn8" title="8. It is a long-cherished tradition among a certain type of military thinker that huge casualties are the main thing. If they are on the other side then this is a valuable bonus."><sup class="calibre10">8</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a <em class="calibre9">few</em> women among the sitters, none of them holding anything heavier than a glove or a small pet dragon. Their job had largely been to roll bandages and await the return of their husbands with, she liked to think, resolution and fortitude and a general hope that said husbands would return with as many of their bits as possible.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The point was, though, that they never <em class="calibre9">thought</em> about it. There was a war, and off they went. If there wasn't a war, they looked for one. They didn't even use words like “duty”. It was all built in at bone level.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She sighed. It was all so <em class="calibre9">difficult</em> these days, and Lady Sybil came from a class that was not used to difficulty, or at least the kind that couldn't be sorted out by shouting at a servant. Five hundred years ago one of her ancestors had cut off a Klatchian's head in battle and had brought it home on a pole, and no one thought any the worse of him, given what the Klatchians would have cut off if they'd caught him. That seemed straightforward. You fought them, they fought you, everyone knew the rules, and if you got your head cut off you jolly well didn't blub about it afterwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Certainly, things were <em class="calibre9">better</em> now. But they were just… more difficult.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And of course some of those antique husbands were away for months or years at a time, and for them wives and families were pretty much like the library and stableyard and the Johnson Exploding Pagoda. You got them sorted out and then didn't think much about it. At least Sam was home every day.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, most days. Every night, anyway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well… part of most nights, certainly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At least they ate meals together.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, most meals.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, at least they made a <em class="calibre9">start</em> on most meals.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, at least she knew he was never very far away, just somewhere where he was trying to do too much and run too fast and people were trying to kill him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All in all, she considered, she was jolly lucky.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at Carrot, who was standing in front of his desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So what does all that add up to?” he said. “The man we know <em class="calibre9">didn't</em> get the Prince is dead. The man who probably <em class="calibre9">did</em>… is dead. Someone tried very clumsily to make it look as if Ossie was paid by the Klatchians. OK, I can see why someone might want to do that. That's what Fred calls <em class="calibre9">politics</em>. They get Snowy to do the real business, and he helps poor dumb Ossie who's there to take the fall, and then the Watch <em class="calibre9">proves</em> that Ossie was in the pay of the Klatchians and that's <em class="calibre9">another</em> reason for fighting. And Snowy just slopes off. Only someone cured his dandruff for him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">After</em> he'd written something, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the notepad retrieved from Snowy's room. It was a crude affair, the wads of mismatched bits of scrap that the engravers sold off cheaply. He sniffed at it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Soap on the edges,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His new shampoo,” said Carrot. “First time he'd used it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We looked at all the bottles on the heap, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hmm. Looks like fresh blood here, at the spine, where they're stitched together…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His, sir,” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded. You never argued with Angua about blood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But none of the actual pages have blood on them…” said Vimes. “Which is a bit odd. Messy business, decapitation. People tend to… spray. So the top page—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—has been taken away, sir,” said Carrot, grinning and nodding. “But that's not the funny part, sir. See if you can guess, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glared at him and then moved the lamp closer. “Very faint impression of writing on the top page…” he muttered. “Can't make it out…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We can't either, sir. We know he wrote in pencil, sir. There was one on the table.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Very</em> faint traces,” said Vimes. “Blokes like Snowy write as though they're chipping stone.” He flicked the notebook. “Someone tore out… not just the page he'd written on but several below it as well.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Clever, eh, sir? Everyone knows—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—you can read the suspicious note by looking at the marks on the page below,” said Vimes. He tossed the book on to the table again. “Hmm. There's a message there, yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps he was blackmailing whoever's behind all this?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's not his style,” said Vimes. “No, what I meant was—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a knock on the door, and Fred Colon entered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Brung you a mug of coffee,” he said, “and there's a bunch of wo– Klatchians to see you downstairs, Mr Vimes. Probably come to give you a medal and gabble at you in their lingo. And if you're on for late supper, Mrs Goriffs doing goat and rice and foreign gravy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose I'd better go down and see them,” said Vimes. “But I haven't even had time for a wash—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's evidence of your heroic endeavours,” said Colon stoutly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, all right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Unease began about halfway down the stairs. Vimes had never run into a group of citizens wishing to give him a medal and so he did not have a lot of experience on this score, but the group waiting for him in a tight cluster near the sergeant's desk did not look like a committee of welcome.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They <em class="calibre9">were</em> Klatchian. At least, they were wearing foreign-looking clothes and one or two of them had caught more sun than you generally got in Ankh-Morpork. The feeling crept over Vimes that Klatch was a very big place in which his city and the whole of the Sto Plains would be lost, and so there must be room in it for all kinds of peoples, including this short chap in the red fez who was practically vibrating with indignation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you the man Vimes?” the enfezzed one demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I'm Commander Vimes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We demand the release of the Goriff family! And we won't take any excuses!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes blinked. “Release?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You have locked them up! And confiscated their shop!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the man, and then he looked across the room at Sergeant Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where did you put the family, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus saluted. “In der cells, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha!” said the man in the fez. “You admit it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, who <em class="calibre9">are</em> you?” said Vimes, blinking with tiredness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to tell you and you can't beat it out of me!” said the man, sticking out his chest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, thank you for telling me,” said Vimes. “I do hate wasted effort.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello, Mr Wazir,” said Carrot, appearing behind Vimes. “Did you get the note about that book?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was one of those silences that happen when everyone has to reprogramme their faces.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Vimes said, “What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Wazir sells books in Widdy Street,” said Carrot. “Only I asked him for some books on Klatch, you see, and one of the ones he gave me was <em class="calibre9">The Perfumed Allotment</em>, <em class="calibre9">or</em>, <em class="calibre9">The Garden of Delights</em>. And I didn't mind because the Klatchians invented gardens, sir, so I thought it might be a very useful cultural insight. Get inside the Klatchian mind, as it were. Only it, er, it… er… well, it wasn't about gardening… er…” He started to blush.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, all right, bring it back if you like,” said Mr Wazir, looking a little derailed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just thought you ought to know in case you hadn't… in case you sold… well… it could shock the impressionable, you know, a book like that…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, fine—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Angua was so shocked she couldn't stop laughing.” Carrot went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will have your money sent round directly,” said Wazir. His expression turned vengeful again. He glared at Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Books are unimportant at this time! We demand you release my countrymen now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Detritus, why the hell did you put them in the cells?” said Vimes wearily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What else we got, sir? Dey're not locked in and dey got clean blankets.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's your explanation,” said Vimes. “They're our guests.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the cells!” said Wazir, relishing the word.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're free to go whenever they like,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure they are <em class="calibre9">now</em>,” said Wazir, contriving to indicate that only his arrival had prevented officially sanctioned bloodshed. “You can be sure the Patrician will hear about this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He hears about everything else,” said Vimes. “But if they leave here, who is going to protect them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are! Their fellow countrymen!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Wazir almost stood to attention. “By force of arms, if necessary.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">good</em>,” said Vimes. “Then there'll be <em class="calibre9">two</em> mobs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Damn</em>!” Vimes slapped at his pocket. “I don't <em class="calibre9">want</em> to know I haven't got any appointments!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You have one at eleven pee em. The Rats Chamber, at the palace,” said the Dis-organizer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't be stupid!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please yourself.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And shut up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was just trying to help.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up.” Vimes turned back to the Klatchian bookseller.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Wazir, if Goriff wants to leave with you, we won't stop him—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha! You may well try!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes told himself that there was no reason at all why a Klatchian couldn't be a pompous little troublemaker. But he felt uneasy about it, like a man edging along the side of a very deep crevasse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant Colon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See to this, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Diplomatically.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir!” Colon tapped the side of his nose. “Is this politics, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just… just go and fetch the Goriff family and they can…” Vimes waved a hand vaguely. “They can do whatever they like.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and walked up the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Someone has to protect my people's rights!” shouted Wazir.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They heard Vimes stop halfway up the stairs. The board creaked under his weight for a second. Then he continued upwards, and several of the watchmen started breathing again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shut his office door behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Politics!</em> He sat down and scrabbled through the papers. It was much easier to think about crime. Give him good honest crime any time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to shut out the outside world.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone had beheaded Snowy Slopes. That was a <em class="calibre9">fact</em>. You couldn't put it down to a shaving accident, or unreasonably strong shampoo.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Snowy had attempted to shoot the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And so had Ossie, but Ossie only <em class="calibre9">thought</em> he was an assassin. Everyone else thought he was a weird little twerp who was as impressionable as wet clay.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A lovely idea, though. You used a <em class="calibre9">real</em> murderer, a nice quite professional, and then you had – Vimes smiled grimly – someone else to take the fall. And if he hadn't taken a less metaphorical fall the poor twisted little sod would have <em class="calibre9">believed</em> he was the murderer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the Watch was supposed to believe it was a Klatchian plot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sand in their sandals… The <em class="calibre9">nerve</em> of it! Did they think he was stupid? He wished Fred had carefully swept up the sand, because he was damn well going to find out who'd put it there and they were going to <em class="calibre9">eat</em> it. Someone wanted Vimes to chase Klatchians.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man on the burning roof. Did he fit in? Did he <em class="calibre9">have</em> to fit in? What could Vimes recall? A man in a robe, his face hidden. And a voice of a man not just used to giving commands – <em class="calibre9">Vimes</em> was used to giving commands – but also used to having commands obeyed, whereas a member of the Watch treated orders as suggestions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But some things didn't have to fit. That was where “clues” let you down. And the damn notebook. That was the oddest thing yet. So <em class="calibre9">someone</em> had carefully ripped out several pages after Snowy had written whatever he'd written. Someone bright enough to know the trick of looking at the pages underneath for faint impressions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So why not pinch the whole pad?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was all too complicated. But somewhere was the one thing that'd make it simple, that would turn it all into sense—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He flung down his pencil and wrenched open the door to the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell's all this noise?” he yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon was halfway up the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was Mr Goriff and Mr Wazir having a bit of what you might call an argy-bargy, sir. Someone set fire to someone else's country two hundred years ago, Carrot says.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, just <em class="calibre9">now</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s all Klatchian to me, sir. Anyway, Wazir's gone off with his nose in a sling.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wazir comes from Smale, you see,” said Carrot. “And Mr Goriff comes from Elharib, and the two countries only stopped fighting ten years ago. Religious differences.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Run out of weapons?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ran out of rocks, sir. They ran out of weapons last century.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook his head. “That always chews me up,” he said. “People killing one another just because their gods have squabbled—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, they've got the same god, sir. Apparently it's over a word in their holy book, sir. The Elharibians say it translates as ‘god’ and the Smalies say it's ‘man’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How can you mix them up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, there's only one tiny dot difference in the script, you see. And some people reckon it's only a bit of fly dirt in any case.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Centuries of war because a fly crapped in the wrong place?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It could have been worse,” said Carrot. “If it had been slightly to the left the word would have been ‘liquorice’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook his head. Carrot was good at picking up this sort of thing. And I know how to ask for vindaloo, he thought. And it turns out that's just a Klatchian word meaning “mouth-scalding gristle for macho foreign idiots”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wish we understood more about Klatch,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon tapped the side of his nose conspiratorially.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Know the enemy, eh, sir?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I know the <em class="calibre9">enemy</em>,” said Vimes. “It's Klatchians I want to find out about.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen looked round. Vimes narrowed his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're one of Rust's men, aren't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The young man saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lieutenant Hornett, sir.” He hesitated. “Er… his lordship has sent me to ask you if you and your senior officers would be so good as to come to the palace at your convenience, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Those were his words?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lieutenant decided that honesty was the only policy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact he said, ‘Get Vimes and his mob up here right now,’ sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, did he?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!” said a small triumphant voice from his pocket. “The time is eleven pee em precisely!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The door opened before Nobby knocked, and a small stout woman glared out at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I am!” she snapped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby stood with his hand still raised. “Er… are you Mrs Cake?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but I don't hold with doing it except for money.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby's hand did not move.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… you can tell the future, right?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stared at one another. Then Mrs Cake thumped her own ear a couple of times, and blinked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Drat! Left my precognition on again.” Her gaze unfocused for a moment as she replayed the recent conversation in the privacy of her head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we're sorted out,” she said. She looked at Nobby and sniffed. “You'd better come in. Mind the carpet, it's just been washed. And I can only give you ten minutes 'cos I've got cabbage boilin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She led Corporal Nobbs into her tiny front room. A lot of it was occupied by a round table covered with a green cloth. There was a crystal ball on the table, not very well covered by a pink knitted lady in a crinoline dress.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake motioned Nobby to sit down. He obediently did so. The smell of cabbage drifted through the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bloke in the pub told me about you,” Nobby mumbled. “Said you do mediuming.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you care to tell me your problem?” said Mrs Cake. She looked at Nobby again and, in a state of certainty that had nothing to do with precognition and everything to do with observation, added: “That is, which of your problems do you want to know about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby coughed. “Er… it's a bit… you know… intimate. Affairs of the heart, sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are <em class="calibre9">women</em> involved?” said Mrs Cake cautiously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… I hope so. What else is there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake visibly relaxed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I just want to know if I'm going to meet any,” Nobby went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see.” Mrs Cake gave a kind of facial shrug. It wasn't up to her to tell people how to waste their money. “Well, there's the tenpenny future. That's what you see. And there's the ten-dollar future. That's what you get.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ten dollars? That's more'n a weeks pay! I'd better take the tenpenny one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A very wise choice,” said Mrs Cake. “Give me your paw.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hand,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what I said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake examined Nobby's outstretched palm while taking care not to touch it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to moan and roll your eyes and stuff?” said Nobby, a man out to get his tenpenn'orth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to take cheek,” said Mrs Cake, without looking up. “That sort of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She peered closer, and then gave Nobby a sharp look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you been playing with this hand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake whipped the crinoline lady off the crystal and glared into the depths. After a while she shook her head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know, I'm sure… oh, well.” She cleared her throat and spoke in a more sibyllic voice. “Mr Nobbs, I see you surrounded by dusky ladies in a hot place. Looks a bit foreign to me. They're laughing and chatting with you… in fact, one of them's just handed you a drink…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“None of 'em are shouting or anything?” said Nobby, mystified.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Doesn't look like it,” said Mrs Cake, equally fascinated. “They seem quite happy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't see any… magnets?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno,” Nobby admitted. “I 'spect you'd know 'em if you saw 'em.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake, despite a certain rigidity of character, couldn't help but be aware of a drift in Nobby's speculation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Some of the ladies look… nubile,” she hinted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right,” said Nobby, his expression not changing in any way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you understand what I mean…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Yes. Nubile. Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mrs Cake gave up. Nobby counted out ten pennies.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that'll be soon, will it?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh yes. I can't see very far for tenpence.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Happy young ladies…” mused Nobby. “Nubile, too. Definitely something to think about.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After he'd gone, Mrs Cake went back to her crystal and sneaked a whole ten dollars' worth of precognition for her own curiosity and satisfaction, and laughed about it all afternoon.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was only half surprised when the doors to the Rats Chamber opened and there, sitting at the head of the table, was Lord Rust. The Patrician wasn't there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was <em class="calibre9">half</em> surprised. That is, at a certain shallow level he thought, that's odd, I thought you couldn't budge the man with a siege weapon. But at a dark level, where the daylight seldom penetrated, he thought: <em class="calibre9">of course</em>. At a time like this men like Rust rise to the top. It's like stirring a swamp with a stick. Really big bubbles are suddenly on the surface and there's a bad smell about everything. Nevertheless, he saluted and said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Vetinari on his holidays, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Vetinari stepped down this evening, Vimes,” said Lord Rust. “Pro tem, of course. Just for the duration of the emergency.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. And I have to say that he anticipated a certain… cynicism on your part, commander, and therefore asked me to give you this letter. You will see that it is sealed with his seal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the envelope. There was certainly the official seal in the wax, but—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He met Lord Rust's gaze and at least that suspicion faded. Rust wouldn't try a trick like that. Men like Rust had a moral code of sorts, and some things weren't <em class="calibre9">honourable</em>. You could own a street of crowded houses where people lived like cockroaches and the cockroaches lived like kings and that was perfectly OK, but Rust would probably die before he'd descend to forgery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see, sir,” said Vimes. “You wanted me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander Vimes, I must ask you to take the Klatchians resident in the city into custody.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On what charge, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander, we are on the verge of <em class="calibre9">war</em> with Klatch. Surely you understand?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are talking about spying, commander. Sabotage, even,” said Lord Rust. “To be frank… the city is to be placed under martial law.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir? What kind of law's that, sir?” said Vimes, staring straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know very well, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it the kind where you shout ‘Stop!’ <em class="calibre9">before</em> you fire, sir, or the other kind?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. I see.” Rust stood up and leaned forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It pleased you to be… smart with Lord Vetinari, and for some reason he indulged you,” he said. “I, on the other hand, know your type.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My type?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems to me that the streets are full of crimes, commander. Unlicensed begging, public nuisances… but you seem to turn a blind eye, you seem to think you should have bigger ideas. But you are not required to have big ideas, commander. You are a thief-taker, nothing more. Are you eyeballing me, Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was trying not to turn a blind eye, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You seem to feel, Vimes, that the law is some kind of big glowing light in the sky which is not subject to control. And you are wrong. The law is what we tell it to be. Im not going to add ‘Do you understand?’ because I <em class="calibre9">know</em> you understand and I am not going to try to reason with you. I know a rank bad hat when I see one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bad hat?” said Vimes weakly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander Vimes,” he said, “I had hoped to avoid this, but the last few days point to a succession of astonishing judgemental errors on your part The Prince Khufurah was shot, and you seemed helpless to prevent this or find the criminal responsible. Mobs appear to run around the city unimpeded, I gather that one of your sergeants proposed to shoot innocent people in the head, and we have just heard that you took it upon yourself to arrest an innocent businessman and lock him in the cells for no reason at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes heard Colon gasp. But it sounded a long way off. He could feel everything crumbling under him, but his mind seemed to be flying now, flapping through a pink sky where nothing mattered very much.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I don't know about that, sir,” he said. “He was guilty of repeatedly being Klatchian, wasn't he? Don't you want me to do that to all of 'em?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">And if this was not enough</em>,” Rust went on, “we are told, and in other circumstances I would find this <em class="calibre9">very</em> hard to believe, even of a counter-jumper like you, that earlier tonight you, being quite unprovoked, assaulted two Klatchian guards, trespassed on Klatchian soil, entered the women's quarters, abducted two Klatchians from their beds, ordered the destruction of Klatchian property and… well, frankly, acted quite disgracefully.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What is the point of arguing? Vimes thought. Why play cards with a shaved deck? And yet</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two Klatchians, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems Prince Khufurah has been kidnapped, Vimes. I find it hard to believe that even <em class="calibre9">you</em> would attempt that, but the Klatchians seem to be suggesting this. You were seen entering their property illegally. And you appear to have dragged a helpless lady from her bed. What have you got to say about that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was on fire at the time, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lieutenant Hornett stepped forward and whispered something. Lord Rust subsided a bit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right. Very well. There were perhaps mitigating circumstances, but politically it was a most ill-advised action, Vimes. I cannot pretend to know what has happened to the Prince, but frankly you seem to have taken a positive delight in making matters worse.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Can you climb, Mr Vimes</em>? Vimes said nothing. The other man had been carrying something bulky over his shoulder…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are removed from authority, commander. And the Watch will come under the direct command of this council. Is that understood?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust turned to Carrot. “Captain Carrot, many of us here have heard… good reports about you, and by due authority I hereby appoint you acting Commander of the Watch—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shut his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot saluted smartly. “No! Sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened his eyes wide.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” Rust stared at Carrot for a few moments, and then gave a little shrug.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, well… loyalty is a fine thing. Sergeant Colon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the circumstances, and since you are the most experienced noncommissioned officer and have an exemp– and have a military record, you will take command of the Watch for the duration of the… emergency.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was an instruction, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beads of sweat began to form on Colon's brow. “Nossir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Sergeant!</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can put it where the sun does not shine, sir!” said Colon desperately.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again, Vimes saw Rust's milky-blue stare. Rust never looked surprised. And since he knew that a mere sergeant would never dare offer cheeky defiance, he erased Sergeant Colon from the immediate universe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The gaze turned briefly to Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he doesn't know how to speak to a troll, Vimes thought. And he was once again impressed, in the same dark way, by the manner in which Rust dealt with the problem. He dealt with it by making it not be there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who is the senior corporal in the Watch, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That would be Corporal Nobbs.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The committee went into a huddle. There was a rush of whispering, in which the words “—an absolute little <em class="calibre9">tit</em>–” could be heard several times. Finally Rust looked up again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the next in seniority?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let me see… that would be Corporal Stronginthearm,” said Vimes. He felt oddly light-headed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps <em class="calibre9">he</em> is a man who can take orders.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a dwarf, you idiot!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Not a muscle moved on Rust's face. There was a <em class="calibre9">clink</em> as Vimes's badge was set neatly on the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to take this,” Vimes said calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, so you'd rather be a civilian, would you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">A watchman is a civilian, you inbred streak of piss</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust's brain erased the sounds that his ears could not possibly have heard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the keys to the armoury, Sir Samuel,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They jangled as they landed on the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And do the rest of you have any empty gestures to make?” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon took his grimy badge out of his pocket and was a little disappointed that it didn't make a defiant tinkle when he threw it on the table but instead bounced and smashed the water jug.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I got my badge carved on my arm,” Detritus rumbled. “Someone c'n try an' take it off if dey likes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot laid his badge down very carefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust raised his eyebrows. “You too, captain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I would have thought that <em class="calibre9">you</em> at least—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped and looked up in annoyance as the doors opened. A couple of the palace guards ran in, with a group of Klatchians behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The council got to their feet in a hurry.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes recognized the Klatchian in the centre of the group. He'd seen him around at official functions and, if it hadn't been for the fact that the man was a Klatchian, would have marked him down as a shifty piece of work.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who's he?” he whispered to Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince Kalif. He's the deputy ambassador.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Another prince?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man came to a halt in front of the table, glanced at Vimes with no show of recognition and bowed to Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince Kalif,” said Lord Rust. “Your arrival is unannounced but nevertheless—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have grave news, my lord.” Even in his stunned state, a part of Vimes registered that the voice was different. Khufurah had learned his second language on the street, but this one had had tutors.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At a time like this, what news isn't?” said Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There have been developments on the new land. Regrettable incidents. And indeed in Ankh-Morpork, too.” He glanced at Vimes again. “Although here, I must say, reports are confused. Lord Rust, I have to tell you we are, technically, at war.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Technically</em> at war?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am afraid events are carrying us forward,” said Kalif. “The situation is delicate.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They know they're going to fight, Vimes thought. This is just like the start of a dance, where you hang around looking at your partner…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I must tell you that you are being given twelve hours to remove all your citizens from Leshp,” said Kalif. “If that is done, matters will be happily resolved. For the present.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our response is that <em class="calibre9">you</em> have twelve hours to quit Leshp,” said Rust. “If that is not done, then we will take… steps…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Kalif bowed slightly. “We understand one another. A formal document will be with you shortly and, no doubt, we will be receiving one from you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, hang on, you can't just—” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir Samuel, you are no longer Commander of the Watch and you have no place at these proceedings,” said Rust sharply. He turned back to the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is unfortunate that things have come to this,” he said stiffly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. But there comes a time when words are no longer sufficient.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I must agree with you. And then it is time to test one's strength.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared in fascinated horror from one face to the other.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will, of course, allow you time to quit your embassy. Such of it as remains.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So kind. And of course we will extend to you the same courtesy.” Kalif bowed slightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So did Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“After all, just because our countries are at war is no reason why we should not respect one another as friends,” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Yes, it bloody well is!” said Vimes. “I can't <em class="calibre9">believe</em> this! You can't just stand there and… good grief, whatever happened to diplomacy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“War, Vimes, is a continuation of diplomacy by other means,” said Lord Rust. “As you would know, if you were really a gentleman.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you Klatchians are as bad,” Vimes went on. “It's that green mouldy mutton Jenkins sells. You've all got Foaming Sheep Disease. You can't just stand there and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir Samuel, you are, as you are at pains to point out, a civilian,” said Rust. “As such, you have no place here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't bother with a salute but just turned away and walked out of the room. The rest of the squad followed him in silence back to Pseudopolis Yard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I told him he could put it where the sun didn't shine,” said Sergeant Colon, as they crossed the Brass Bridge.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right,” said Vimes woodenly. “Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right to his face. ‘Where the sun don't shine.’ Just like that,” said Colon. It was a little difficult to tell from his tone whether this was a matter of pride or dread.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid Lord Rust is technically correct, sir.” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Mr Vimes. The safety of the city is of paramount importance, so in times of war the civil power is subject to military authority.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">told</em> him,” said Fred Colon. “Right where the sun does not shine, I said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The deputy ambassador didn't mention Prince Khufurah,” said Carrot. “That was odd.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm going home,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're nearly there, sir.” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean <em class="calibre9">home</em> home. I need some sleep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. What shall I tell the lads, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell them anything you like.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I looked him right in the eye and I told him, I said, you can put it right where the—” mused Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You want me an' some of der boys go and sort out dat Rust later on?” said Detritus. “It no problem. He bound to be guilty o' somethin'.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's head felt so light now that he couldn't touch the ground with a rope. He left them outside the Yard and let his head drag him on and up the hill and round the corner and into the house and past his astonished wife and up the stairs and into the bedroom, where he fell full length on the bed and was asleep before he hit it.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">At nine next morning the first recruits for Lord Venturi's Heavy Infantry paraded down Broadway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen went out to watch. That was all that was left for them to do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Isn't that Mr Vimes's butler?” said Angua, pointing to the stiff figure of Willikins in the front rank.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, and that's his kitchen boy banging the drum in front,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were a… military man, weren't you, Fred?” said Carrot, as the parade passed by.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Duke of Eorle's First Heavy Infantry, sir, The Pheasant Pluckers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pardon?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nickname for the regiment, miss. Oh, from ages ago. They were bivvywhacking on some estate and came across a lot of pheasant pens and, well, you know, having to live off the land and everything… anyway, that's why we always wore a pheasant feather on our helmets. Traditional, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Already old Fred's face was creasing up in the soft expression of someone who has been mugged in Memory Lane.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We even had a marching song,” he said. “Mind you, it was quite hard to sing right. Er… sorry, miss?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it's all right, sergeant,” said Angua. “I often start to laugh like that for no reason at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon once again stared dreamily at nothing. “And o'course before that I was in the Duke of Quirm's Middleweight Infantry. Saw a lot of action with them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure you did,” said Carrot, while Angua entertained cynical thoughts about the actual distance of Fred's vantage point. “Your distinguished military career has obviously given you many pleasant memories.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The ladies liked the uniform,” said Fred Colon, with the unspoken rider that sometimes a growing lad needed all the help he could get. “An' it… weelll…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon looked awkward, as if the bunched underwear of the past was tangling itself in the crotch of recollection.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was… more easier, sir. Than being a copper, I mean. I mean, you're a soldier, right, and the other buggers is the enemy. You march into some big field somewhere and all form up into them oblongs, and then a bloke with the feathery helmet gives the order, and you all forms up into big arrows—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good gods, do people really do that? I thought it was just how they drew the battle plans!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, the old duke, sir, he did it by the book… anyway, it's just a case of watching your back and walloping any bloke in the wrong uniform. But…” Fred Colon's face screwed up in agonized thought, “well, when you're a copper, well, you dunno the good guys from the bad guys without a map, miss, and that's a fact.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… there's <em class="calibre9">military</em> law, isn't there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes… but when it's pissing with rain and you're up to your tonk– your waist in dead horses and someone gives you an order, that ain't the time to look up the book of rules, miss. Anyway, most of it's about when you're allowed to get shot, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Im sure there's more to it than that, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, prob'ly, sir,” Colon conceded diplomatically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure there's lots of stuff about not killing enemy soldiers who've surrendered, for instance.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yerss, there's <em class="calibre9">that</em>, captain. Doesn't say you can't duff 'em up a bit, of course. Give 'em a little something to remember you by.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not <em class="calibre9">torture</em>?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">no</em>, miss. But…” Memory Lane for Colon had turned into a bad road through a dark valley “…well, when your best mate's got an arrow in his eye an' there's blokes and horses screamin' all round you and you're scared shi– you're <em class="calibre9">really</em> scared, an' you come across one of the enemy… well, for some reason or other you've got this kinda urge to give him a bit of a… nudge, sort of thing. Just… you know… like, maybe in twenty years' time his leg'll twinge a bit on frosty days and he'll remember what he done, that's all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He rummaged in a pocket and produced a very small book, which he held up for inspection.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This belonged to my great-grandad,” he said. “He was in the scrap we had against Pseudopolis and my great-gran gave him this book of prayers for soldiers, 'cos you need all the prayers you can get, believe you me, and he stuck it in the top pocket of his jerkin, 'cos he couldn't afford armour, and next day in battle whoosh, this arrow came out of nowhere, wham, straight into this book and it went all the way through to the last page before stopping, look. You can see the hole.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pretty miraculous,” Carrot agreed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, it was, I s'pose,” said the sergeant. He looked ruefully at the battered volume. “Shame about the other seventeen arrows, really.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The drumming died away. The remnant of the Watch tried to avoid one another's gaze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then an imperious voice said, “Why aren't you in uniform, young man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby turned. He was being addressed by an elderly lady with a certain turkey-like cast of feature and a capital punishment expression.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me? Got one, missus,” said Nobby, pointing to his battered helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A <em class="calibre9">proper</em> uniform,” snapped the woman, handing him a white feather. “What will <em class="calibre9">you</em> be doing when the Klatchians are ravishing us in our beds?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She glared at the rest of the guards and swept on. Angua saw several others like her passing along the crowds of spectators. Here and there was a flash of white.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll be thinking: those Klatchians are jolly brave,” said Carrot. “I'm afraid, Nobby, that the white feather is to shame you into joining up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that's all right, then,” said Nobby, a man for whom shame held no shame. “What am I supposed to do with it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That reminds me… did I tell you what I said to Lord Rust?” said Sergeant Colon, nervously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Seventeen times so far,” said Angua, watching the women with the feathers. She added, apparently to herself, “‘Come back with your shield or on it.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder if I can get the lady to give me any more?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was that?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These feathers,” said Nobby. “They look like real goose. I've got a use for a lot more of these—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">meant</em> what was it that Angua said?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh… it's just something women used to say when they sent their men off to war. Come back with your shield, or on it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">On</em> your shield?” said Nobby. “You mean like… sledging, sort of thing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like dead,” said Angua. “It meant come back a winner or not at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I <em class="calibre9">always</em> came back with my shield,” said Nobby. “No problem there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby,” sighed Colon, “you used to come back with your shield, everyone <em class="calibre9">else's</em> shield, a sack of teeth and fifteen pairs of still-warm boots. On a cart.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We-ell, no point in going to war unless you're on the winning side,” said Nobby, sticking the white feather in his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby, you was <em class="calibre9">always</em> on the winning side, the reason bein', you used to lurk aroun' the edges to see who was winning and then pull the right uniform off'f some poor dead sod. I used to hear where the generals kept an eye on what you were wearin' so they'd know how the battle was going.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lots of soldiers have served in lots of regiments,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, what you say is true. Only not usually during the same battle,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They trooped back into the Watch House. Most of the shift had taken the day off. After all, who was in charge? What were they supposed to be doing today? The only ones left were those who never thought of themselves as off duty, and the new recruits who hadn't had their keen edge blunted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure Mr Vimes'll think of something,” said Carrot. “Look, I'd better take the Goriffs back to their shop. Mr Goriff says he's going to pack up and leave. A lot of Klatchians are leaving. You can't blame them, either.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Dreams rising with him like bubbles, Vimes surfaced from the black fathoms of sleep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Normally, these days, he treasured the moment of waking. It was when solutions presented themselves. He assumed bits of his brain came out at night and worked on the problems of the previous day, handing him the result just as he opened his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All that arrived now were memories. He winced. Another memory turned up. He groaned. The sound of his badge bouncing on the table replayed itself. He swore.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He swung his legs off the covers and groped for the bedside table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">no</em>… All right, what's the time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One o'clock pee em! Hello, Insert Name Here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked blearily at the Dis-organizer. One day, he knew, he really <em class="calibre9">would</em> have to try to understand the manual for the damn thing. Either that or drop it off a cliff.<a href="#_ftn9" title="9. One of the universal rules of happiness is: always be wary of any helpful item that weighs less than its operating manual."><sup class="calibre10">9</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What—” he began, and then groaned again. The twanging sound made by the unwound turban as it took his weight had just come back to haunt him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sam?” The bedroom door was pushed open and Sybil came in carrying a cup.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, dear?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you feel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've got bruises on my brui—” Another memory crawled up from the pit of guilt. “Oh, good grief, did I really call him a long streak of—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said his wife. “Fred Colon came round this morning and told me all about it. And a very good description, I'd say. I went out with Ronnie Rust once. Bit of a cold fish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another recollection burst like a ball of marsh gas in Vimes's head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did Fred tell you where he said Rust could put his badge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Three times. It seems to be weighing on his mind. Anyway, knowing Ronnie, he'd have to use a hammer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes had long ago got used to the fact that the aristocracy all seemed to know one another by their first name.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And did Fred tell you anything else?” he said timidly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. About the shop and the fire and everything. I'm proud of you.” She gave him a kiss.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do I do now?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Drink your tea and have a wash and a shave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ought to go down to the Watch House and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A shave! There's hot water in the jug.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When she had left he hauled himself upright and tottered into his bathroom. There was, indeed, a jug of hot water on the marble washstand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at the face in the mirror. Unfortunately, it was his. Perhaps if he shaved it first…? And then he could wash the bits that were left.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fragments of the night before kept on respectfully drawing themselves to his attention. It was a shame about that guard, but sometimes you just coudln't stand and argue</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He shouldn't have done that with his badge. It wasn't like the old days. He had <em class="calibre9">responsibilities</em>. He should've stayed on and made things just a little less—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No. That never worked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He managed to get the lather on his face. The Riot Act! Good grief… He stopped his razor thoughtfully. Rust's milky eyes stared out of his memory. Bastard! Men like that thought, they really thought, that the Watch was a kind of sheepdog, to nip at the heels of the flock, bark when spoken to and never, ever, bite the shepherd…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh yes. Vimes knew in his bones who the enemy was.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Except</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No badge, no Watch, no job…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another memory arrived, late.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lather still dripping down his shirt, he pulled Vetinari's sealed letter out of his pocket and slit it open with the razor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a blank sheet of paper inside. Hie turned it over, and there was nothing on the other side either. Mystified, he glanced at the envelope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">Sir Samuel Vimes, Knight</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nice of him to be so precise about it, Vimes thought. What was the point of a message with no message? Some people might absentmindedly have slipped the wrong piece of paper in an envelope, but Vetinari wouldn't. What was the point of sending him a note telling him he was a knight, for gods' sake, he knew <em class="calibre9">that</em> embarrassing fact well enough—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another little memory burst open as silently as a mouse passing wind in a hurricane.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Who'd said it? Any gentleman—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared. Well, he <em class="calibre9">was</em> a gentleman, wasn't he? It was official.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he <em class="calibre9">didn't</em> shout, and he <em class="calibre9">didn't</em> run out of the room. He finished shaving, had a wash and put on a change of underwear, very calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Downstairs, Sybil had cooked him a meal. She wasn't a very good cook. This was fine by Vimes, because he wasn't a very good eater. After a lifetime of street meals his stomach wasn't set up right. What it craved was little crunchy brown bits, the food group of the gods, and Sybil reliably always left the pan too long on the dragon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She eyed him carefully as he chewed his fried egg and stared into the middle distance. Her manner was that of someone with a portable safety net watching a man on the high wire.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while, while she watched him crack open a sausage, he said, “Do we have any books on chivalry, dear?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hundreds, Sam.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there any one which tells you what… you know, what it's all about? I mean, what you have to do if you're a knight, say? Responsibilities and so on?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Most of them, I should think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. I think I shall do a little reading.” Vimes hit the bacon with his fork. It shattered very satisfactorily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Afterwards, he went into the library. Twenty minutes later, he came back out for a pencil and some paper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ten minutes after that, Lady Sybil took him a cup of coffee. He was hidden behind a pile of books, and apparently deep in <em class="calibre9">Life of Chivalrie</em>. She crept out and went into her own study, where she settled down to update her dragon-breeding records.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was an hour later when she heard him step out into the hall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was humming under his breath, tunelessly, with the faraway look of preoccupation that means that some Big Thought has required the shutting down of all non-essential processes. He was also re-radiating the field of angered innocence that was, to her, part of his essential Vimesness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going out, Sam?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. I'm just going to kick some arse, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">good</em>. Just be sure you wrap up well, then.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Goriff family trudged along silently beside Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sorry about your shop, Mr Goriff,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Goriff shifted the load he was carrying. “We can start other shops,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll certainly keep an eye on it,” said Carrot. “And when all this is over, you can come back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His son said something in Klatchian. There was a brief family arguent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I appreciate your strength of feeling,” said Carrot, going red, “although I must say I think your language was a little strong.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My son is sorry,” said Goriff automatically. “He did not remember that you speak Kl—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, I'm not! Why should we run away?” said the boy. “We <em class="calibre9">live</em> here! I've never <em class="calibre9">seen</em> Klatch!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, well, that will be something to look forward to,” said Carrot. “I hear it has many fine—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you <em class="calibre9">stupid</em>?” said Janil. He shook himself free of his father's grasp and confronted Carrot. “I don't care! I don't want all this stuff about the moon rising over the Mountains of the Sun! I get that at home all the time! I live <em class="calibre9">here</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, you really ought to listen to your parents—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why? My dad works all the time and now he's being pushed out! What good's that? We ought to stay here and defend what's ours!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, well, you shouldn't take the law into your own hands—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's our job—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you're not doing it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a rattle of Klatchian from Mr Goriff.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says I've got to apologize,” said Janil sullenly. “I'm sorry.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So am I,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The boy's father gave him that complicated shrug used by adults in a situation involving adolescents.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll be back, I know it,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We shall see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They went down the quay towards a waiting boat. It was a Klatchian ship. People lined the rails, people who were getting out with what they could carry before they could only get out with what they wore. The watchmen found themselves under hostile scrutiny.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Surely Rust isn't already forcing Klatchians out of their homes?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We can tell which way the wind is blowing,” said Goriff calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot sniffed the salt air. “It's blowing from Klatch,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For you, perhaps,” said Goriff.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A whip cracked behind them and they stood aside as several coaches rumbled by. A blind at the window was pulled aside momentarily. Carrot caught a brief glimpse of a face, all gold teeth and black beard, before the cloth twitched back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre9">him</em>, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a faint grunt from Angua. She had her eyes closed, as she always did when she was letting her nose do the seeing…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cloves,” she murmured, and then grabbed Carrot's arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Don't</em> run after it! There's armed men on that ship! What will they think when they see a soldier running towards them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not a soldier!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long do you think they'll spend working out the difference?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The coach pushed through the press of people on the dock. The crowd surged back around it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's boxes being unloaded– I can't quite see…” said Carrot, shading his eyes. “Look, I'm sure they'll understand if—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed stepped out on to the dock and looked back towards the watchmen. There was a momentary sparkle as he grinned. They saw his hand reach over his shoulder and come back holding the curved sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't just let him get away,” said Carrot. “He's a suspect! Look, he's laughing at us!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With diplomatic impunity,” said Angua. “But there's a lot of armed men down there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My strength is as the strength of ten because my heart is pure,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, there's eleven of them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed threw his sword in the air. It spun a couple of times, making a <em class="calibre9">whum-whum</em> noise, and then his hand shot out and caught it by the handle as it fell.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what Mr Vimes was doing,” said Carrot, through gritted teeth. “Now he's taunting us—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You will be killed if you go on the ship,” said Goriff behind him. “I know that man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do? How?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He is feared in the whole of Klatch. That is 71-hour Ahmed!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, <em class="calibre9">why</em> is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You haven't heard of him? And he is a D'reg!” Mrs Goriff pulled at her husband's arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“D'reg?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A warlike desert tribe,” said Carrot. “Very fierce. Honourable, though. They say that if a D'reg is your friend he's your friend for the rest of your life.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And if he's <em class="calibre9">not</em> your friend?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's about five seconds.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He drew his sword. “Nevertheless,” he added, “we can't let—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have said too much. We must go,” said Goriff. The family picked up their bundles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, there might be another way to find out about him,” said Angua. She pointed at the carriage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of lean, long-haired and extremely graceful dogs had been let out and were straining at their leashes as they led the way up the gangplank.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Klatchistan hunting dogs,” she said. “The Klatchian nobility are very keen on them, I understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They look a bit like—” Carrot began, and then the penny dropped. “No, I can't let you go on there by yourself,” he said. “Something would go wrong.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I stand a much better chance than you would, believe me,” said Angua quickly. “They won't be leaving until the tide changes, in any case.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's too dangerous.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, they <em class="calibre9">are</em> supposed to be our enemies.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant for <em class="calibre9">you</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?” said Angua. “I've never heard of werewolves in Klatch, so they probably don't know how to deal with us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She undid the little leather collar that held her badge and handed it to Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't <em class="calibre9">worry</em>,” she said. “If the worst comes to the worst, I'll dive overboard.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Into the <em class="calibre9">river</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Even the river Ankh can't kill a werewolf.” Angua glanced at the turgid water. “Probably, anyway.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs had gone on patrol. They weren't sure why they were patrolling, and what they were supposed to do if they saw a crime, although many years of training had enabled them not to see some quite large crimes. But they were creatures of habit. They were watchmen, so they patrolled. They didn't patrol with a purpose. They patrolled, as it were, in pure essence. Nobby's progress wasn't helped by the large, leatherbound book in his arms.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A war'd do this place good,” said Sergeant Colon, after a while. “Put some backbone in people. Everything's gone all to pot these days.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not like when we were kids, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not like when we were kids indeed, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People trusted one another in them days, didn't they, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People trusted one another, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge. I know. And people didn't have to lock their doors, did they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, Nobby. And people were always ready to help. They were always in and out of one another's houses.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'sright, sarge,” said Nobby vehemently. “I know no one ever locked their houses down <em class="calibre9">our</em> street.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what I'm talking about. That's my point.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was 'cos the bastards even used to steal the locks.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon considered the truth of this.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but at least it was each other's stuff they were nicking, Nobby. It's not like they was <em class="calibre9">foreigners</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They strolled on for a while, each entangled in his own thoughts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's Nubilia?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nubilia?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's got to be a place, I reckon. Pretty warm there, I think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, <em class="calibre9">Nubilia</em>,” said Colon. He invented desperately. “Right. Yes. It's one of them Klatchian places. Yeah. Got lots of sand. And mountains. Exports dates. Why'd you want to know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh… no reason.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why are you carrying that huge book?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah, clever idea, sarge. I saw what you said about that book of your great-grandad, so if there's any fighting I got this one off'f Washpot. It's <em class="calibre9">The Book of Om</em>. Five inches thick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a bit big for a pocket, Nobby. It's a bit big for a <em class="calibre9">cart</em>, to be honest.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought I could make sort of braces to carry it. I reckon even a longbow could only get an arrow as far as the Apocrypha.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A familiar creak made them look up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A Klatchian's head was swinging in the breeze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fancy a pint?” said Sergeant Colon. “Big Anjie brews up some that's a treat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Better not, sarge. Mr Vimes is in a bit of a mood.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon sighed. “You're right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked up at the head again. It was wooden. It had been repainted many times over the centuries. The Klatchian was smiling very happily for someone who'd never have to buy a shirt ever again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchian's Head. My grandad said <em class="calibre9">his</em> granddad remembered when it was still the real one,” Colon said. “Of course, it was about the size of a walnut by then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bit… nasty, sticking up a bloke's head for a pub sign,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">No</em>, Nobby. Spoils of war, right? Some bloke came back from one of the wars with a souvenir, stuck it on a pole and opened a pub. The Klatchian's Head. Teach 'em not to do it again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I used to get into enough trouble just for nicking boots,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“More robust times, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You ever <em class="calibre9">met</em> a Klatchian, sarge?” said Nobby, as they began to pace the length of the quiet street. “I mean one of the wild ones.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, no… but you know what? They're allowed three wives! That's criminal, that is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, 'cos here's me and I ain't got one,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And they eat funny grub. Curry and that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby gave this some thought. “Like… we do, when we're on late duty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Weelll, yerss – but they don't do it properly—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean runny ear-wax yellow with peas and currants in, like your mum used to do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! You poke around as much as you like in a Klatchian curry and you won't find a single <em class="calibre9">piece</em> of swede.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I heard where they eat sheep's eyeballs, too,” said Nobby, international gastra-gnome.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not decent ordinary stuff like lambs' fry or sweetbreads, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's… right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon felt that he was being got at in some say.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, Nobby, when all's said and done they ain't the right colour, and there's an end to it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good job you found out, Fred!” said Nobby, so cheerfully that Sergeant Colon was almost sure that he meant it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, it's obvious,” he conceded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… what <em class="calibre9">is</em> the right colour?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“White, of course!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not brick-red, then? 'Cos <em class="calibre9">you</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you winding me up, Corporal Nobbs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'Course not, sarge. So… what colour am I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">That caused Sergeant Colon to think. You could have found, somewhere on Corporal Nobbs, a shade appropriate to every climate on the disc and a few found only in specialist medical books.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“White's… white's a state of, you know… <em class="calibre9">mind</em>,” he said. “It's like… doing an honest day's work for an honest day's pay, that sort of thing. And washing regular.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not lazing around, sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Or… like… working all hours like Goriff does.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you never see those kids of his with dirty clo—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby, you're just trying to get me going, right? You <em class="calibre9">know</em> we're better'n Klatchians. Otherwise, what's the point? Anyway, if we're going to fight 'em, you could get locked up for going around talking treachery.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to fight them, Fred?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon scratched his chin. “Well, as a hexperienced milit'ry man, I suppose I'll have to…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What' re you going to do? Join a regiment and go to the front?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We-ell… my fore-tay lies in training, so I reckon I'd better stay here and train up the new recruits.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here at the back, you might say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We all have to do our bit, Nobby. If it was down to me I'd be out there like a shot to give Johnny Klatchian a taste of cold steel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Their razor-sharp swords wouldn't worry you, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I should laugh at them with scorn, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But s'posing the Klatchians attack here? Then <em class="calibre9">you'll</em> be at the front and the front will be at the back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll sort of try for a posting in the middle…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The middle of the front or—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Gentlemen?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked round to find that they had been followed by a man of medium height but with an extraordinary head. It wasn't that he had gone bald. He had quite a lot of hair, which was long and curly and reached almost to his shoulders, and his beard was large enough to conceal a small chicken. But his head had simply risen through his hair, like a kind of intrusive dome.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He gave them a friendly smile.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Am I by any change addressing the heroic Sergeant Colon and the—” The man looked at Nobby. Expressions of amazement, dread, interest and charity passed across his otherwise sunny countenance like storm-driven clouds. “And <em class="calibre9">the</em> Corporal Nobbs?” he finished.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is us, citizen,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, good. I was very specifically told to find you. It's quite amazing, you know. No one had even broken into the boathouse, although I must say I did design the locks rather well. And all I've had to do is replace the leatherwork around the joints and grease it up… oh, do excuse me, I've got rather ahead of myself. Now… there was a message I had to give you… what was it now?… Something about your hands…” He reached down into the large canvas bag by his feet and pulled out a long tube, which he handed to Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do apologize about this,” he said, producing a smaller tube and handing it to Colon. “I had to do things in such a hurry, there really was no time to finish it off properly, and frankly the materials are not very good—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon looked at his tube. It was pointed at one end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a firework rocket,” he said. “Look, it's s got ‘A riot of coloured balls and stars’ on it…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I do <em class="calibre9">so</em> apologize,” said the man, lifting a complex little arrangement of wood and metal out of the bag. “May I have the tube back, corporal?” He took it and screwed the arrangement on to one end. “Thank you… yes, I'm afraid that without my lathe and, indeed, my forge, I really have had to make do with what I could find lying around… Could I have the rocket back, please? Thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They don't go properly without a stick,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, in fact they do,” said the man. “Just not very accurately.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He raised the tube to shoulder height and peered into a small wire grid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That seems about right,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And they don't go along,” said Nobby. “They just go up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A common misconception,” said Leonard of Quirm, turning to face them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon could see the tip of the rocket in the depths of the tube, and had a sudden image of stars and balls.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, apparently you two have to step into this alley here and come with me,” said Leonard. “I'm very sorry about this, but his lordship has explained to me at great length how the needs of society as a whole may have to overrule the rights of a particular individual. Oh, and I've just remembered. You have to put your hands up.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Sand had been spilled across the big table in the Rats Chamber.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust felt a sensation akin to pleasure as he surveyed it. There were the little square boxes for the towns and cities, and cut-out palm trees to indicate the known oasisies. And, although he was uneasy about the word “oasisies”, Lord Rust looked at it and saw that it was good. Especially since it was a map of Klatch and everyone knew that Klatch was sand anyway, which made it rather satisfying in an existential sort of way, although this sand here had been commandeered from the heap behind Chalky the troll's wholesale pottery and bore the occasional cigarette end and trace of feline incontinence that would probably not be found in the real desert, or certainly not to scale.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Here</em> would be a good landing area,” he said, pointing with his stick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His equerry tried to look helpful. “The El Kinte peninsula,” he said. “That's the closest point to us, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly! We can be across the straits in jig time.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good, sir,” said Leiutenant Hornett, “but… you don't think the enemy might be expecting us there? It being such an obvious landing site?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not obvious at all to the trained military thinker, sir! They won't be expecting us there precisely <em class="calibre9">because</em> it is so obvious, d'y'see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean… they'll think only a complete idiot would land there, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Correct! And they know we're <em class="calibre9">not</em> complete idiots, sir, and therefore that will be the last place they will be expecting us, d'y'see? They'll be expecting us somewhere like” – his stick stabbed into the sand – “here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hornett looked closely. In the street outside, someone started to bang a drum.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you mean Eritor,” he said. “Where I believe there is a concealed landing area, and two days' forced march through good cover would have us at the heart of the empire, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exactly!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whereas landing at El Kinte means three days over sand dunes and past the fortified city of Gebra…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Precisely. Wide-open spaces! And that is where we can practise the <em class="calibre9">art</em> of warfare.” Lord Rust raised his voice above the drumming. “That's how you settle these things. One decisive battle. Us on one side, the Klatchians on the other. THAT IS HOW THESE THINGS ARE D—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He threw down his pointer. “Who the devil is making that infernal noise?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The equerry walked across to the window. “It's someone else recruiting, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we're all here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The equerry hesitated, as the bearers of bad tidings to short-tempered men often do.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Vimes, sir…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Recruiting for the <em class="calibre9">Watch</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no, my lord. For a regiment. Er… the banner says ‘Sir Samuel Vimes's First of Foot’, my lord—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The arrogance of the man. Go and– No, I'll go myself!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a crowd in the street. In the centre there rose the bulk of Constable Dorfl, and a key thing about the golem was that if he was banging a drum then no one was going to ask him to stop. No one except possibly Lord Rust, who strode up and snatched the drumsticks out of his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yerss, it are species of your choice's life in der First of Foot!” shouted Sergeant Detritus, unaware of the events going on behind him. “You learnin' a trade! You learnin' self-respek! Also you get spiffy uniform plus all der boots you can eat – here, dat's my banner!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's the meaning of this?” said Rust, flinging the homemade banner on to the ground. “Vimes can't do this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure detached itself from the wall, where it had been watching the show.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, I rather think I can,” said Vimes. He handed Rust a piece of paper. “It's all here, my lord. With references citing the highest authorities, in case you are in any doubt.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Citing the—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On the role of a knight, my lord. In fact the <em class="calibre9">duties</em> of a knight, funnily enough. A lot of it is pretty damn stupid stuff, riding around the place on one of those bloody great horses with curtains round it and so on, but <em class="calibre9">one</em> of them says in time of need a knight <em class="calibre9">has</em> to raise and maintain – you'll laugh when I tell you this – a body of armed soldiers! No one could have been more surprised than me, I don't mind telling you! Seems there's nothing for it but I have to go out and get some chaps together. Of course, most of the watch have joined, well, you know how it is, disciplined lads, anxious to do their bit, so that saved <em class="calibre9">me</em> a bit of effort. Except for Nobby Nobbs, 'cos he says if he leaves it till Thursday he's going to have enough white feathers for a mattress.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust's expression would have preserved meat for a year.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a nonsense,” he said. “And you, Vimes, certainly are no knight. Only a king can make—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a good few lordships in this city created by the Patricians,” said Vimes. “Your friend Lord Downey, for one. You were saying?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then if you persist in playing games I will say that before a knight is created he must spend a night's vigil watching his armour—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Practically every night of my life,” said Vimes. “A man doesn't keep an eye on his armour round here, that man's got no armour in the morning.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In <em class="calibre9">prayer</em>,” said Rust sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's me,” said Vimes. “Not a night has gone by without me thinking, ‘Ye gods, I hope I get through this alive.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and he must have proved himself on the field of combat. Against other trained men, Vimes. Not vermin and thugs.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes started to undo the strap of his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, this isn't the best of moments, my lord, but if someone'll hold your coat I can spare you five minutes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In Vimes's eyes Rust recognized the fiery gleam of burning boats.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what you're doing, Vimes, and I am not going to rise to it,” he said, taking a step back. “In any case, you have had no formal training in arms.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's true,” said Vimes. “You've got me there, right enough. No one ever trained me in arms. I was lucky there.” He leaned closer and lowered his voice so that the watching crowd wouldn't hear. “Y'see, I <em class="calibre9">know</em> what ‘training in arms’ means, Ronald. There hasn't been a real war in ages. So it's all prancing around wearing padded waistcoats and waving swords with knobs on the end so no one'll really get hurt, isn't it? But down in the Shades no one's had any training in arms either. Wouldn't know an epee from a sabre. No, what they're <em class="calibre9">good</em> at is a broken bottle in one hand and a length of four-by-two in the other and when you face 'em, Ronnie, you know you aren't going off for a laugh and a jolly drink afterwards, 'cos they want you <em class="calibre9">dead</em>. They want to <em class="calibre9">kill</em> you, you see, Ron? And by the time you've swung your nice shiny broadsword they've carved their name and address on your stomach. And <em class="calibre9">that's</em> where I got <em class="calibre9">my</em> training in arms. Well… fists and knees and teeth and elbows, mostly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You, sir, are no <em class="calibre9">gentleman</em>,” said Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">knew</em> there was something about me that I liked.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you not even see that you can't enrol… dwarfs and trolls in an Ankh-Morpork regiment?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It just says ‘armed soldiers’, and dwarfs come with their own axes. A great saving. Besides, if you've ever seen them really fight, then you must've been on the same side.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Sir Samuel, my lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust seemed to think for a moment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well, then,” he said. “Then you and your… regiment come under my command—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Strangely, no,” said Vimes swiftly. “Under the command of the King or his duly appointed representative, it says in Scavone's <em class="calibre9">Chivalric Law and Usage</em>. And, of course, there has been no duly appointed representative ever since some complete bastard cut off the last king's head. Oh, assorted bods appeared to have been ruling the city, but according to the <em class="calibre9">chivalric tradition</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust stopped to think again. He had the look of a lawnmower just after the grass has organized a workers' collective. There was a definite suggestion that, deep inside, he knew this was not really happening. It could not be happening because this sort of thing did not happen. Any contradictory evidence could be safely ignored. However, it might be necessary to find some motions to go through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think you'll find that, legally, your position—” he began, and his eyes bulged for a moment as Vimes interrupted him cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there might be a few problems, I grant you. But if you ask Mr Slant he'll say ‘This is a very interesting case’, which as you know is lawyer-talk for ‘One thousand dollars a day plus expenses and it'll take months.’ So I'll leave you go get on with it, shall I? Got such a lot of things to do, you know. I think the swatches for the new uniforms should be in my office about now, it's so important to look right on the battlefield, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust gave Vimes another look, and then strode away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus stamped to attention beside Vimes and his salute clanged smartly off his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What we doin' now, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We can pack up now, I think. All the lads have joined up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You told them it wasn't compulsory?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir! I said, ‘It ain't compuls'ry, you just gotta,’ sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Detritus, I wanted <em class="calibre9">volunteers</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'sright, sir. They volunteered all right, I saw to that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed as he walked back to his office. But they were probably safe. He was pretty sure he was legally sound and if he knew anything about Rust, the man would respect the letter of the law. Such men did, in a chilly way. Besides, thirty men in the Watch simply didn't figure in the great scheme of things. Rust could ignore them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Suddenly there's a war brewing, Vimes thought, and they all come back. Civil order is turned upside down, because that's the <em class="calibre9">rules</em>. And people like Rust are at the top of the heap again. You have these aristocrats lazing around for years, and suddenly the old armour's out and the sword is being taken down from over the fireplace. They think there's going to be a war and all they can think about is that wars can be won or lost…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone's behind this. Someone wants to see a war. Someone paid to have Ossie and Snowy killed. Someone wanted the Prince dead. I've got to remember that. This isn't a war. This is a crime.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then he realized he was wondering if the attack on Goriffs shop had been organized by the same people, and whether those same people had set fire to the embassy.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And <em class="calibre9">then</em> he realized why he was thinking like this.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was because he wanted there to be conspirators. It was much better to imagine men in some smoky room somewhere, made mad and cynical by privilege and power, plotting over the brandy. You had to cling to this sort of image, because if you didn't then you might have to face the fact that bad things happened because ordinary people, the kind who brushed the dog and told their children bedtime stories, were capable of then going out and doing horrible things to other ordinary people. It was so much easier to blame it on Them. It was bleakly depressing to think that They were Us. If it was Them, then nothing was anyone's fault. If it was Us, what did that make Me? After all, Im one of Us. I must be. I've certainly never thought of myself as one of Them. <em class="calibre9">No</em>–<em class="calibre9">one</em> ever thinks of themselves as one of Them. We're always one of Us. It's Them that do the bad things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Around about this time, in his former life, Vimes would be taking the cap off a bottle, and wouldn't be too bothered about the bottle's contents so long as they crinkled paint—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ook?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello. What can I do for– oh, yes, I asked about books on Klatch… Is that all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The librarian shyly held out a small, battered green book. Vimes had been expecting something bigger, but he took it anyway. It paid to look at any book the orang-utan gave you. He matched you up to books. Vimes supposed it was a knack, in the same way that an undertaker was very good at judging heights.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the spine, in very faded gold lettering, were the words “<em class="calibre9">VENI VIDI VICI: A Soldier's Life</em> by Gen. A. Tacticus”.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby and Sergeant Colon edged along the alley.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know who he is!” Fred hissed. “That's Leonard of Quirm, that is! He went missing five years ago!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So he's called Leonard and he's from Quirm, so what?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a raving genius!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a loony.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, well, they say there's a thin line between genius and madness…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's fallen off it, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice behind them said, “Oh, dear, this won't do at all, will it…? I can't deny it, you were quite right, the accuracy would be quite unacceptable at any reasonable range. Could you bear to stop a moment, please?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They turned. Leonard was already dismantling the tube.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you could just hang on to this bit, corporal… and, sergeant, if you would be so good as to hold this piece steady… some sort of fins should do it, I'm sure I had a suitable piece of wood somewhere…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard began to pat his pockets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen realized that the man holding them up had paused to redesign his weapon and had given it to them to hold while he looked for a screwdriver. This was a thing that did not often happen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby silently took the rocket from Colon and pushed it into the tube.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's this bit here, mister?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard glanced up briefly in between patting his pockets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, that is the trigger,” he said. “Which, as you can see, rubs against the flint and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Good</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a short burst of flame and rather more black smoke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, dear,” said Leonard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen turned, like men dreading what they were about to see. The rocket had shot the length of the alley and through the window of a house.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… putting ‘This Way Up’ on the projectile would be an important safety point to bear in mind for the new design.” said Leonard. “Now, where's that notebook…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we'd better leave,” said Colon, moving backwards. “Very fast.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Inside the house there was an explosion of stars and balls to delight young and old but not the troll who had just opened the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, really?” said Leonard. “Well, if speed is required, I have this very interesting design for a two-wheeled—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Acting on an unspoken agreement, the watchmen each put a hand under a shoulder, lifted him off the ground, and ran for it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, dear,” said Leonard, as he was dragged backwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen dived into a side alley, and then jinked and dodged along several others with quiet professionalism. Finally they leaned Leonard against a wall and peered round the end of the alley.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All clear,” said Nobby. “They went the other way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Colon. “Now, what was you doing? I mean, you might be a genius like I heard, Mister da Quirm, but when it comes to threatening people you're as clever as an inflatable dartboard.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I appear to have been a bit of a juggins, don't I?” Leonard agreed. “But I do implore you to come with me. I'm afraid I thought that as warriors you would be more inclined to understand force.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yes, we're <em class="calibre9">warriors</em>,” said Sergeant Colon. “But—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ere, have you got another one of these rockets?” said Nobby, hefting the tube onto his shoulder again. He had the special gleam in his eye that a small man gets when he's laid his hands on a big, big weapon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">may</em> have,” said Leonard, and the gleam in <em class="calibre9">his</em> eye was the mad twinkle of the naturally innocent when they think they're being cunning. “Why don't we go and see? You see, I was told to fetch you by any means necessary.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bribery sounds good,” said Nobby. He put his eye to the tube's sights and started making “whoosh” noises.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who told you to fetch us?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Vetinari.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Patrician wants <em class="calibre9">us</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. He said you have special qualities and must come at once.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To the <em class="calibre9">palace</em>? I heard he'd done a runner.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no. To the, er… to the, er… docks…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Special qualities, eh?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sarge…” Nobby began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now then, Nobby,” said Colon importantly. “It's about time we were given some recognition, you know that. Hexperienced officers are the backbone of the force. Seems to <em class="calibre9">me</em>,” he went on, “seems to me that this is a case of cometh the time, cometh the man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When's he cometh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm talking about us. Men with special qualities.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby nodded, but with a certain amount of reluctance. In many ways he was a much clearer thinker than his superior officer, and he was worrying about “special qualities”. Being picked for something because of your “special qualities” was tantamount to being volunteered. Anyway, what was so special about “special qualities”? <em class="calibre9">Limpets</em> had special qualities.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Will we go undercover again?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard blinked. “There… yes, I think I can say there is a strong <em class="calibre9">under</em> element involved. Yes, indeed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just be quiet, corporal.” Colon pulled Nobby closer. “Undercover means not getting stabbed and shot at, right?” he whispered. “And what's the most important thing a professional soldier wants not to happen to him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not getting stabbed and shot,” said Nobby automatically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! So let's be going, Mr Quirm! The call has come!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done!” said Leonard. “Tell me, sergeant, are you of a nautical persuasion?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon saluted again. “Nossir! Happily married man, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant, have you ploughed the ocean waves at all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon gave him a cunning look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, you can't catch me with that one, sir,” he said. “Everyone knows the horses sink.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard paused for a moment and retuned his brain to Radio Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you, in the past, floated around, on the sea, in a boat, at all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me, sir? Not me, sir. It's the sight of the waves going up and down, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Leonard. “Well, happily, that will not be a problem.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">All right, start again…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Assembling facts, that's what it was about…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The world watched. Someone <em class="calibre9">wanted</em> the Watch to say that the assassination had been inspired by Klatch. Who?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone had also beheaded Snowy Slopes where he stood and left him deader than six buckets of fish bait.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A vision of 71-hour Ahmed's big curved sword presented itself for his attention. So…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…let's assume that Ahmed was Khufurah's servant or bodyguard, and he'd found out…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No, how could that work? Who'd tell him?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, maybe he'd found out <em class="calibre9">somehow</em>, and that meant that he might also know who'd paid the man…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat back. It was still a mystery but he'd solve it, he knew he would. He'd assemble the facts, analyse them, look at them from every angle with an open mind, and <em class="calibre9">find out exactly how Lord Rust had organized it</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rank bad hat! He didn't have to sit still for something like that, especially from a man who rhymed “house” with “mice”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His eye was caught by the ancient book. General Tacticus? Every kid knew about him. Ankh-Morpork had ruled a huge empire and a lot of it had been in Klatch, thanks to him. Except there wasn't any thanks <em class="calibre9">for</em> him, strangely enough. Vimes had never quite known why, but the city seemed to be rather ashamed of the general.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One reason, of course, was that he'd ended up fighting Ankh-Mopork. The city of Genua had run out of royalty, inbreeding having progressed to the point where the sole remaining example consisted mostly of teeth, and senior courtiers had written to Ankh-Morpork asking for help.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There'd been a lot of that sort of thing, Vimes had been surprised to learn. The little kingdoms of the Sto Plains were for ever scrounging spare royalty off one another. The King had sent Tacticus out of sheer exasperation. It's hard to run a proper empire when you're constantly getting blood-stained letters on the lines of: <em class="calibre9">Dear sire, I beg to inform you that we have conquered Betrek, Smale and Ushistan. Please send AM$20,000 back pay</em>. The man never knew when to stop. So he was hastily made a duke and packed off to Genua, whereupon his first action was to consider what was that city's greatest military threat and then, having identified it, to declare war on Ankh-Morpork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But what else had anyone expected? He'd done his duty. He'd brought back heaps of spoils, lots of captives and, almost uniquely among Ankh-Morpork's military leaders, most of his men. Vimes suspected that this last fact was one reason why history didn't approve. There was a suggestion that this was, in some way, not playing fair.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Veni, vidi, vici</em>.” That was what the man was supposed to have said when he'd conquered… where? Pseudopolis, wasn't it? Or Al-Khali? Or Quirm? Maybe Sto Lat? That was in the old days when you attacked anyone else's city on principle, and went back and did them over again if they looked like getting up. And in those days, you didn't care if the world watched. You <em class="calibre9">wanted</em> them to watch, and learn. “<em class="calibre9">Veni, vidi, vici</em>.” I came, I saw, I conquered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As a comment it always struck Vimes as a bit too pat. It wasn't the sort of thing you came up with on the spur of the moment, was it? It sounded as if he had worked it out. He'd probably spent long evenings in his tent, looking up in the dictionary short words beginning with V and trying them out… <em class="calibre9">Veni, vermini, vomui</em>, I came, I got ratted, I threw up? <em class="calibre9">Visi, veneri, vamoosi</em>, I visited, I caught an embarrassing disease, I ran away? It must have been a big relief to come up with three short acceptable words. He probably made them up <em class="calibre9">first</em>, and then went off to see somewhere and conquer it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He opened the book at random.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">It is always useful to face an enemy who is prepared to die for his country</em>,” he read. “<em class="calibre9">This means that both you and he have exactly the same aim in mind</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley b—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's hand slammed down on the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes? What is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Three oh five pee em. Interview with Cpl Littlebottom re Missing Sgt Colon,” said the demon sulkily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never arranged anything like– Who told you—? Are you telling me that I've got an appointment and I don't know about it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So how do <em class="calibre9">you</em> know about it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre9">told</em> me to know about it. Last night,” said the demon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre9">can</em> tell me about appointments I don't know about?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're still appointments <em class="calibre9">sine qua</em> appointments,” said the demon. “They exist, as it were, in appointment phase space.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell does that mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look,” said the demon patiently, “You can have an appointment at any time, right? So therefore <em class="calibre9">any</em> appointment exists <em class="calibre9">in potentia</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any <em class="calibre9">particular</em> appointment simply collapses the waveform,” said the demon. “I merely select the most likely one from the projected matrix.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're just making this up,” said Vimes. “If you were right, then any second now—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone knocked at the door. It was a polite, tentative tap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes didn't take his eyes off the smirking demon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that you, Corporal Littlebottom?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Sergeant Colon has sent a pigeon. I thought you ought to see it, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come in!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A small roll of thin paper was placed on his desk. He read:</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Have volunteered for a mission of Vital Importance. Nobby is here also. There will be statchoos of us when this day's work is over.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">PS Someone I can't tell you who says this note will self-destruct in five seconds, he is sorry he hasn't got good chemicles to do it better—</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The paper began to crinkle around the edges and then vanished in a small puff of acrid smoke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the little pile of ash that remained.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose it's a mercy they didn't blow up the pigeon, sir,” said Cheery.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell are they up to? Well, I can't chase around after them. Thanks, Cheery.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dwarf saluted and departed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Co-incidence,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, then,” said the demon. “Bingeley-bingeley beep! Three fifteen pee em, Emergency Meeting with Captain Carrot.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a cylinder, tapering to a point at both ends. At one end the taper was quite complex, the cylinder narrowing in a succession of smaller and smaller rings, overlapping one another until they ended in a large fishtail. Oiled leather could be seen gleaming in the gaps between the metal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At the other end, extending from the cylinder for all the world like the horn of a unicorn, was a very long and pointed screw thread.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The whole thing was mounted on a crude trolley, which was in turn riding on a pair of iron rails that disappeared into the black water at the far end of the boathouse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like a giant fish to me,” said Colon. “Made of tin.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With an 'orn,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It'll never float,” said Colon. “I can see where you've gone wrong there. Everyone knows metal sinks.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not <em class="calibre9">entirely</em> true,” said Leonard, diplomatically. “In any case, this boat is <em class="calibre9">designed</em> to sink.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Propulsion was a major headache, I'm afraid,” said Leonard, climbing up a stepladder. “I thought of paddles and oars, and even some kind of screw, and then I thought: dolphins, that's the ticket! They move extremely fast with barely an effort. That's out at sea, of course, we only get the shovel-nosed dolphin in our estuary here. The linkage rods are a bit complicated but I used to be able to get quite a turn of speed. The pedalling can be somewhat tiresome, but with three of us we should be able to get up to some quite satisfactory accelerations. It's amazing what you can do when you imitate nature, I just wish my flying exp– Oh… where did you go…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It would be difficult to establish what part of satisfactorily accelerating nature the watchmen were trying to imitate, but it was a part which tended to get stuck in doors a lot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stopped struggling and began to back into the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, sergeant,” said Lord Vetinari, entering in front of them. “And Corporal Nobbs, too. Leonard has explained everything to you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't ask us to go in that thing, sir! It'll be suicide!” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician brought his hands together in front of his lips in the manner of someone praying, and sucked air thoughtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. No, I think you are wrong,” he said at last, as if reaching a conclusion on some complex metaphysical conundrum. “I think that, in all probability, going into that thing would be a valiant and possibly rewarding deed. I would venture to suggest that, in fact, it is <em class="calibre9">not</em> going that would be suicidal. But I would appreciate your views.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari was not a heavily built man and, these days, he walked with the aid of an ebony cane. No one could remember seeing him handle a weapon, and a flash of unaccustomed insight told Sergeant Colon that this was not in fact a comforting thought at all. They said he's been educated at the Assassins' School, but no one remembered what weapons he'd learned. He'd studied languages. And suddenly, with him in front of you, this didn't seem like the soft option.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon saluted, always a useful thing to do in an emergency such as this, and shouted: “Corporal Nobbs, why aren't you in the… the metal sinking fish thing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's see you get up them steps, lad… hup hup hup…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby scrambled up the ladder and disappeared. Colon saluted again. You could usually tell his nervousness by the smartness of his salute. You could have cut bread with this one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ready to go, <em class="calibre9">sah</em>!” he shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sergeant,” said Vetinari. “You're displaying exactly those special qualities I'm looking for—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'<em class="calibre9">ere, sarge</em>,” came a metallic voice from the belly of the fish, “<em class="calibre9">there's all chains and cogwheels in here</em>. What's this do?” The big auger in front of the thing started to squeak round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard appeared from behind the fish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think we should all get in,” he said. “I've lit the candle that'll burn down and sever the string that'll release the weight that'll pull the blocks out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… what is this thing called?” said Colon, as he followed the Patrician up the ladder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, because it is <em class="calibre9">submersed</em> in a <em class="calibre9">marine</em> environment I've always called it the Going-Under-The-Water-Safely Device,” said Leonard, behind him.<a href="#_ftn10" title="10. Thinking up good names was, oddly enough, one area where Leonard Quirm's genius tended to give up."><sup class="calibre10">10</sup></a> “But usually I just think of it as the Boat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached behind him and shut the lid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a moment any listener in the boathouse would have heard a complicated clonk as bolts slid into place.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The candle burned down and severed the string that released the weight that pulled the blocks out and, slowly at first, the Boat slid down the rails and into the dark water which, after a second or two, closed over it with a gloop.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">No one took any notice of Angua as she trotted up the gangplank. The important thing, she knew, was to look at home. No one bothered a large dog that looked as though it knew where it was going.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People were milling about on deck in the manner peculiar to non-sailors on board ship, not sure of what they should be doing or where they should refrain from doing it. Some of the more stoic ones had made little camps, defining with bundles and pieces of cloth tiny areas of private property. They reminded Angua of the bi-coloured drainpipes and microscopically delineated household boundaries in Money Trap Lane, showing yet another way of drawing a line in the sand. This is Mine, and that is Yours. Trespass on Mine, and you'll get Yours.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were a couple of guards standing on either side of the door to the cabins. They hadn't been told to stop dogs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Scents led down below. She could smell the other dogs and a strong odour of cloves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At the end of the narrow passage a door was ajar. She forced it open with her nose and looked around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The dogs were lying on a rug on one side of a large cabin. Other dogs might have barked, but these just turned their beautiful heads towards her, sighted down the length of their noses and examined her carefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A narrow bed beyond them was half concealed by silk hangings. 71-hour Ahmed was bending over it, but he turned when she entered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He glanced towards the dogs and gave her a puzzled look. Then, to her amazement, he sat down on the deck in front of her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And who do you belong to?” he said in perfect Morporkian.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua wagged her tail. There was someone in the bed, she could smell them, but they wouldn't be a problem. Jaw muscles strong enough to sever someone's neck help you to feel relaxed in most situations.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed patted her on the head. Very few people have ever done that to a werewolf without having to get people to cut up their meals for them in future, but Angua had learned self-control.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he stood up and went to the door. She heard him say something to someone outside, and then he came back into the room and smiled at her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I go, I come back…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He opened a small cupboard and took out a jewelled dog collar. “You shall have a collar. Oh, and here is some food,” he added, as a servant brought in some bowls. “‘Knickknack, paddywack, give a dog a bone’ is a rhyme I hear your Ankh-Morpork children sing, but a paddywack is a ball of gristle suitable only for animal food and who knows what part of the animal is its knick-knack…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The plate was put in front of Angua. The other dogs stirred, but Ahmed snapped a word at them and they settled back again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The food was… dog food. In Ankh-Morpork terms, it meant something that you wouldn't even put in a sausage, and there are very few things that a man with a big enough mincer cannot put in a sausage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The little central human part of her was revolted, but the werewolf drooled at the sight of every glistening tube and wobbly fat bit</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">It was on a silver plate</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She looked up. Ahmed was watching her carefully. Of course, the royal dogs were treated like kings, all those diamond collars… It didn't have to mean he <em class="calibre9">knew</em>–</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not hungry?” he said. “Your mouth says you are.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something snapped around her neck as she spun around to bite. Her teeth closed on a mouthful of greasy cloth but that wasn't as important as the pain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His Highness has always liked fine collars on his dogs,” said 71-hour Ahmed, through the red mist. “Rubies, emeralds… and diamonds, Miss Angua.” His face came down level with hers. “Set in silver.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“…<em class="calibre9">A crucial factor, I have always found, is NOT the size of the forces. It is the positioning and commitment of reserves, the bringing of power to a point</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried to concentrate on Tacticus. But there were two distractions. One was that the grinning face of 71-hour Ahmed looked out at him from every line. The other was his watch, which he had propped up against the Disorganizer. It was powered by actual clockwork and was much more reliable. And it never needed feeding. It ticked quietly. As far as it was concerned, he could forget his appointments. He liked it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The second hand was just curving towards the top of the minute when he heard someone coming up the stairs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come in, captain,” said Vimes. There was a snigger from the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's face was pinker than normal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something's happened to Angua,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The high colour drained from Carrot's face. “How did you know that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes firmly closed the lid on the sniggering demon. “Let's call it intuition, shall we? I'm right, am I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir! She went aboard a Klatchian boat and now it's sailing! She hasn't come off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell did she go on board for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were after Ahmed! And he looked as if he was taking someone with him, sir. Someone <em class="calibre9">ill</em>, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's left? But the diplomats are still—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped. There was, if you didn't know Carrot, something wrong with the situation. There were people who, when their girlfriend was spirited away on a foreign ship, would have dived into the Ankh, or at least run briskly along the crust, leapt aboard and dealt out merry hell on a democratic basis. Of course, at a time like this that would be a dumb thing to do. The sensible approach <em class="calibre9">would</em> be to let people know, but even so—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Carrot really did believe that personal wasn't the same as important. Of course, Vimes believed the same thing. You had to hope that when push came to shove you'd act the right way. But there was something slightly creepy about someone who didnt just believe it, but lived their life by it. It was as unnerving as meeting a really poor priest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Obviously, it was a consideration that if someone had captured Angua you knew that the rescue you were going to probably wouldn't be hers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The gods alone knew what would happen if he left now. The city had gone war mad. Big things were happening. At a time like this, every cell in his body was telling him that the Commander of the Watch had Responsibilities…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He drummed his fingers on the desk. In times like this, it was vital to make the right decision. That was what he was paid for. <em class="calibre9">Responsibility</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ought to stay here, and do the best he could.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But… history was full of the bones of good men who'd followed bad orders in the hope that they could soften the blow. Oh, yes, there were worse things they could do, but most of them began right where they started following bad orders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His eyes went from Carrot to the Dis-organizer and then to the tottering mounds of paperwork on his desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Blow that! He was a thief-taker! He'd <em class="calibre9">always</em> be a thieftaker! Why lie?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damned if I'll let Ahmed get back to Klatch!” he said, standing up. “Fast boat, was it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but it looked pretty heavy in the water.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then maybe we can catch it up before it goes very far—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he hurried forward he had, just for a second, the strange sensation that he was two people. And this was because, for the merest fraction of a second, he <em class="calibre9">was</em> two people. They were both called Samuel Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">To history, choices are merely directions. The Trousers of Time opened up and Vimes began to hurtle down one leg of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, somewhere else, the Vimes who made a different choice began to drop into a different future.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They both darted back to grab their Dis-organizers. By the most outrageous of freak chances, quite uniquely, in this split second of decision, they each got the wrong one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And sometimes the avalanche depends on one snowflake. Sometimes a pebble is allowed to find out what might have happened – if only it had bounced the other way.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The wizards of Ankh-Morpork had been very firm on the subject of printing. It's not happening here, they said. Supposing, they said, someone printed a book on magic and then broke up the type again and used it for a book on, say, cookery? The metal would remember. Spells aren't just words. They have extra dimensions of existence. We'd be up to here in talking souffles. Besides, someone might print <em class="calibre9">thousands</em> of the damn things, many of which could well be read by unsuitable people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Engravers' Guild was also against printing. There was something pure, they said, about an engraved page of text. It was there, whole, unsullied. Their members could do very fine work at very reasonable rates. Allowing unskilled people to bash lumps of type together showed a disrespect for words and no good would come of it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The only attempt ever to set up a printing press in Ankh-Morpork had ended in a mysterious fire and the death by suicide of the luckless printer. Everyone knew it was suicide because he'd left a note. The fact that this had been engraved on the head of a pin was considered an irrelevant detail.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the Patrician was against printing because if people knew too much it would only bother them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So people relied on work of mouth, which worked very well because the mouths were so close together. A lot of them were just below the noses of the members of the Beggars' Guild,<a href="#_ftn11" title="11. Except in the particular case of Sidney Lopsides, who was paid two dollars a day from City funds to wear a sack over his head. It wasn't that he was spectacularly deformed, as such, it was merely that anyone who saw him spent the rest of the day with an unnerving feeling that they were upside down."><sup class="calibre10">11</sup></a> citizens generally regarded as reasonably reliable and well informed. Some of them were highly thought of for their sports coverage.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust looked thoughtfully at Crumbling Michael, a Grade II Mutterer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what happened next?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Crumbling Michael scratched his wrist. He'd recently got his extra grade because he'd finally managed to catch a disfiguring but harmless skin disease.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Carrot was in there about two minutes, m'lord. Then they all come runnin' out, right, an' they—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who were <em class="calibre9">they</em>?” said Rust. He fought off an urge to scratch his own arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was Carrot an' Vimes anna dwarf an' a zombie an' all of them, m'lord. They ran all the way to the docks, m'lord, and Vimes saw Captain Jenkins and he said—”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Captain Jenkins! This is your lucky day!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain looked up from the rope he was coiling. No one likes being told it's their lucky day. That sort of thing does not bode well. When someone tells you it's your lucky day, something bad is about to happen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, because you have an unrivalled opportunity to aid the war effort!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And also to demonstrate your patriotism,” Carrot added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We need to borrow your boat,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bugger off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm choosing to believe that was a salty nautical expression meaning ‘Why, certainly’,” said Vimes. “Captain Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You and Detritus go and look behind that false partition in the hold,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir,” said Carrot, walking towards the ladder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's no false partition in the hold!” snapped Jenkins. “And I know the law, and you can't—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a crash of timber from below.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If that <em class="calibre9">wasn't</em> a false partition, our Carrot's gone and knocked a hole in the side,” said Vimes calmly, watching the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know the law too,” said Vimes. He drew his sword. “See this?” he said, holding it up. “This is <em class="calibre9">military</em> law. And military law is a sword. Not a two-edged sword. There's only one edge, and it's pointing at you. Found anything, Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot appeared over the edge of the hold. There was a crossbow in his hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do declare,” said Vimes, “but that looks to me like a Burleigh and Stronginthearm. ‘Viper’ Mk 3, which kills people but leaves buildings standing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's crates and crates of stuff,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s no law—” Jenkins began, but he sounded as if the bottom was dropping out of his world.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know, I think there probably is some law against selling weapons to the enemy in times of war,” said Vimes. “Of course, there might not be. Tell you what,” he added brightly, “why don't we all go along to Sator Square? It's full of people around this time, all very keen on the war and cheering our brave lads… Why don't we go along and put it to them? You told me I ought to listen to the voice of the people. Odd thing, ain't it… you meet people one at a time, they seem decent, they got brains that work, and then they get together and you hear the voice of the people. And it snarls.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's mob rule!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no, surely not,” said Vimes. “Call it democratic justice.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One man, one rock,” Detritus volunteered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins looked like a man afraid the world was about to drop out of his bottom. He glared at Vimes and then at Carrot, and saw no help there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, you'd have nothing to fear from us,” said Vimes. “Although you might trip on your way down the stairs to the cells.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's no stairs down to your cells!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stairs can be arranged.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please, Mr Jenkins,” said Carrot, the good cop.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wasn't… taking… the weapons to… Klatch,” Jenkins said slowly, as if he was reading the words very painfully off some interior script. “I had… in fact… bought them to… donate them… to…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes? Yes?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…our… brave lads,” said Jenkins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done!” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you'd be happy to…?” Vimes prompted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And… I'd be happy to… lend my boat to the war effort,” said Jenkins, sweating.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A true patriot,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins writhed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who told you there was a false panel in the hold?” he demanded. “It was a guess, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha! I <em class="calibre9">knew</em> you were only guessing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Patriotic <em class="calibre9">and</em> clever,” said Vimes. “Now… how do you make this thing go fast?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust tapped his fingers on the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did he take the boat <em class="calibre9">for</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno, m'lord,” said Cumbling Michael, scratching his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn! Did anyone else see them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there weren't many people around, m'lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a small mercy, at least.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just me and Foul Ole Ron and the Duck Man and Blind Hugh and Ringo Eyebrows and No Way Jose and Sidney Lopsides and that bastard Stoolie and Whistling Dick and a few others, m'lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust sank back in his chair and put a pale hand over his face. In Ankh-Morpork the night had a thousand eyes and so did the day, and it also had five hundred mouths and nine hundred and ninety-nine ears.<a href="#_ftn12" title="12. Sidney Lopsides again."><sup class="calibre10">12</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchians <em class="calibre9">must</em> know, then,” he said. “A detachment of Ankh-Morpork soldiery has taken ship for Klatch. An invasion force.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you could hardly call it—” Lieutenant Hornett began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchians will call it that. Besides, the troll Detritus is with them,” said Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Hornett looked glum. Detritus was an invasion force all by himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What ships have we commandeered?” said Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's more than twenty now, if you include the <em class="calibre9">Indestructible</em>, the <em class="calibre9">Indolence</em> and the…” Lieutenant Hornett looked at his list again, “…and the <em class="calibre9">Prid of Ankh-Morpork</em>, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The <em class="calibre9">Prid</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm afraid so, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We should be able to take more than a thousand men and two hundred horses, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not let Vimes go?” said Lord Selachii. “Let the Klatchians deal with him, and good riddance.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And give them a victory over Ankh-Morpork forces? That's how they will see it. Damn the man. He forces our hand. But still, perhaps it is for the best. We should embark.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are we entirely ready, sir?” said Lieutenant Hornett, with the special inflection that means “We are not entirely ready, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We had better be. Glory awaits, gentlemen. In the words of General Tacticus, let us take history by the scrotum. Of course, he was not a very honourable fighter.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">White sunlight etched dark shadows in Prince Cadram's palace. He too had a map of Klatch, made of tiny coloured tiles set into the floor. He sat looking at it pensively.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just one boat?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">General Ashal, his chief adviser, nodded. And added: “Our scryers can't get a very clear picture over that distance, but we do believe one of the men to be Vimes. You recall the name, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, the <em class="calibre9">useful</em> Commander Vimes.” The Prince smiled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed. And since then there has been a lot of activity all along the docks. We have to take the view that the expeditionary force is setting out.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought we had at least a week, Ashal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is certainly puzzling. They cannot possibly be prepared, sire. Something must have happened.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cadram sighed. “Oh, well, let us follow where fate points the way. Where will they attack?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gebra, sire. I'm sure of it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our most heavily fortified city? Surely not. Only an idiot would do that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have studied Lord Rust in some depth, sire. Remember that he doesn't expect us to fight, so the size of our forces really doesn't worry him.” The general smiled. It was a neat, thin little smile. “And of course in attacking us he is piling infamy upon infamy. The other coastal states will take note.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A change of plan, then,” said Cadram. “Ankh-Morpork can wait.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A wise move, sire. As always.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any news of my poor brother?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Alas no, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our agents must search harder. The world is watching, Ashal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Correct, sire.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me again about our special qualities.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up and keep pedalling, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was quite dark in the Boat. A candle swung from a bracket over Leonard of Quirm's bowed head as he sat steering with two levers. Around Nobby, pulleys rattled and little chains clicked. It was like being inside a sewing machine. A damp one, too. Condensation dropped off the ceiling in a steady stream.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They had been pedalling for ten minutes. Leonard had spent most of the time talking excitedly. Nobby got the impression he didn't get out much. He talked about <em class="calibre9">everything</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were the tanks of air, for example. Nobby was happy to accept that you could squeeze air up really small, and that was what was in the groaning, creaking steel-bound casks strapped to the walls. It was what happened to the air afterwards that came as a surprise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bubbles!” said Leonard. “Dolphins again, you see? They don't swim through the water, they fly through a cloud of bubbles. Which is much easier, of course. I add a little soap, which seems to improve matters.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He thinks dolphins fly, sarge,” whispered Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just keep pedalling.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon risked a glance behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari was sitting on an upturned box amidst the clicking chains, with several of Leonard's sketches open on his knees.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carry on, sergeant,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Boat was moving faster now they were away from the city. There was even a brackish light filtering through the little glass windows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Leonard,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where're we going?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His lordship wishes to go to Leshp.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I thought it'd be something like that,” said Nobby. “I thought: ‘Where don't I want to go?’ And the answer just popped into my head, just like that. Only I don't think we'll get there, the reason bein', in about another five minutes my knees are going to fall off…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, my word, you won't have to pedal all the way,” said Leonard. “What did you think the big auger on the nose is for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That?” said Nobby. “I thought that was for drillin' into the bottom of enemy ships—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">What</em>?” Leonard spun around in his seat, a look of horror on his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sink ships? Sink <em class="calibre9">ships</em>? With <em class="calibre9">people</em> on them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… yes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Nobbs, I think you are a very misguided young… man,” said Leonard stiffly. “Use the Boat to sink ships? That would be terrible! In any case, no sailor would dream of doing such a dishonourable thing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The auger, I would have you know, is for <em class="calibre9">attaching</em> us to passing ships in the manner of the remora, the sucker-fish which attaches itself to sharks. A few turns is all that is necessary for a firm attachment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… you couldn't bore all the way through the hull, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only if you were a very careless and extremely thoughtless young man!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The ocean waves may not be ploughable, but the crust of the river Ankh downstream from the city was known to sprout small bushes in the summertime. The <em class="calibre9">Milka</em> moved slowly, leaving a furrow behind it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't you go faster?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why, certainly,” said Jenkins nastily. “Where would you like us to put the extra mast?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The ship's just a dot,” said Carrot. “Why aren't we gaining on them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a bigger ship so it has got what we technically call more sails,” said Jenkins. “And they're fast hulls on those Klatchian boats. And we've got a full hold—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped, but it was too late.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain Carrot?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Throw everything overboard,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not the crossbows! They cost more than a hundred dollars ea—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins stopped. Vimes's expression said, very clearly, that there were a whole lot of things that could be thrown off the boat, and it would be a good idea not to be among them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go and pull some ropes, Mr Jenkins,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched the captain stamp off. A few moments later there was a splash. Vimes looked over the side and saw a crate bob for a moment and then sink. And he felt happy. Thief-taker, Rust had called him. The man had meant it as an insult, but it'd do. Theft was the only crime, whether the loot was gold, innocence, land or life. And for the thieftaker, there was the chase…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were several more splashes. Vimes fancied the ship surged forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">…the chase. Because the chase was simpler than the capture. Once you'd caught someone it got complicated, but the chase was pure and free. Much better than prodding at clues and peering at notebooks. He flees, I chase. Simple.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari's terrier, eh?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!” said his pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't tell me,” said Vimes. “It's something like ‘Five pee em, At Sea,’ yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no,” said the Dis-organizer. “Says here ‘Violent Row With Lord Rust’, Insert Name Here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aren't you supposed to tell me what I'm going to do?” said Vimes, opening the box.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… what you <em class="calibre9">should</em> be doing,” said the demon, looking very worried. “What you <em class="calibre9">should</em> be doing. I don't understand it… er… something seems to be wrong…”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua stopped trying to rub the collar off against a bulkhead. It wasn't working, and the silver pressing against her skin seemed to freeze her and burn her at the same time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Apart from that – and a silver collar on a werewolf was a fairly major <em class="calibre9">that</em> – she'd been treated well. They'd left a plate of food, a <em class="calibre9">wooden</em> plate, and she'd let her wolf side eat it while the human side shut its eyes and held its nose. There was a bowl of water, quite fresh by Ankh-Morpork standards. She could see the bottom of the bowl, at least.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was so hard to <em class="calibre9">think</em> in wolf shape. It was like trying to unlock a door while drunk. It was possible, but you had to concentrate every step of the way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a sound.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Her ears pricked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something tapped once or twice under the hull. She hoped it was a reef. That meant… land, possibly… with any luck she could swim ashore…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something clinked. She'd forgotten about the chain. It was hardly necessary. She felt as weak as a kitten.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a rhythmic noise, like something chewing at the wood.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A tiny metal point splintered through the wall just in front of her nose, and rose an inch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And someone spoke. It sounded far off and distorted, and perhaps only a werewolf would have heard it, but <em class="calibre9">words</em> were happening, somewhere under her paws.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre9">can stop pedalling now, Corporal Nobbs</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I am knackered, sarge. Is there anything to eat</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">There's some more of that garlic sausage. Or there's the cheese. Or cold beans.</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">We're in a tin with no air and we're supposed to eat cheese? I ain't even going to comment on the beans</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I'm very sorry gentlemen. Things were rather rushed and I had to take food which would keep</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">It's just that it's getting a bit… crowded, if you get my meaning.</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I will pay out the rope as soon as it's dark and we can surface and take on air</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Just so long as we get rid of the air we've got, that's all I'm saying</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua's brows wrinkled as she tried to make sense of this. The voices were familiar. Even muffled as they were, she recognized the tones. The vague feeling that fought its way through the mists of animal intellect was: friends.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tiny little unchangeable centre of her thought: good grief, next thing I'll be licking hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She laid her head down near the point again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre9">way to do it, young man. There you go again! Sink ships? I can't imagine how anyone could think of such a thing</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Names. Some of those voices had… names.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Thinking was getting harder. That was the silver at work. But if she stopped, she might forget how to start again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She stared at the point of metal. The point of <em class="calibre9">metal</em> with <em class="calibre9">sharp</em> edges.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tiny human part of her mind raged at the wolf brain, trying to get it to understand what it needed to do.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It was after midnight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The lookout man knelt on the deck in front of 71-hour Ahmed and trembled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what I saw, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>,” he moaned. “And the others saw it too! Something rose up behind the ship and began chasing us! A monster!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed looked at the captain, who shrugged. “Who knows what lies on the floor of the sea, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Its breath!” moaned the seaman. “There was a great roar of breath like the stink of a thousand privies! And then it spoke!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Ahmed. “This is not usual. What did it say?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I did not understand!” The man's face screwed up as he tried to assemble the unfamiliar syllables. “It sounded like…” he swallowed, and went on, “<em class="calibre9">‘Ye gods, that was better out than in, sarge!’</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed stared at him. “And what did that mean to you?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do not know, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You have not spent much time in Ankh-Morpork?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then return to your post.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man stumbled out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have lost speed, wali,” said the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps the sea monster is clutching at our keel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It pleases you to joke, lord. But who knows what has been disturbed by the rising of the new land?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall have to see for myself,” said 71-hour Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked alone to the stern of the ship. Dark waters sucked and splashed and left a phosphorescent glow edging the wake.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched for a long time. People bad at watching didn't last long in the desert, where a shadow in the moonlight could be just a shadow or it could be someone anxious to help you on your way to Paradise. The D'regs came across many shadows of the latter persuasion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">D'reg wasn't their name for themselves, although they tended to adopt it now out of pride. The word meant <em class="calibre9">enemy</em>. Everyone's. And if anyone else wasn't around, then one another's.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">If he concentrated, he might believe that there was a darker shape about a hundred yards behind the ship, very low in the water. Waves were breaking where waves shouldn't be. It looked as though the ship was being followed by a reef.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, well…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed was not <em class="calibre9">super</em>stitious. He <em class="calibre9">was</em> substitious, which put him in a minority among humans. He didn't believe in the things everyone believed in but which nevertheless weren't true. He believed instead in the things that were true in which no one else believed. There are many such substitions, ranging from “It'll get better if you don't pick at it” all the way up to “Sometimes things just happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Currently he was disinclined to believe in sea monsters, especially ones that spoke in the language of Ankh-Morpork, but he did believe that there were a lot of things in the world that he didn't know about.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the far distance he could see the lights of a ship. It didn't seem to be gaining on them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This was much more worrying.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the darkness 71-hour Ahmed reached over his shoulder and grasped the handle of his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Above him, the mainsail creaked in the wind.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon knew he was facing one of the most dangerous moments in his career.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was nothing for it. He was out of options.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… if I add this A and this O and this I and this D,” he said, the sweat pouring down his pink cheeks, “then I can use that V to make ‘avoid’. Er… and that gets me, er, a… what d'you call these blue squares, Len?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A ‘Three Times Ye Value of Thee Letter’ score,” said Leonard of Quirm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sergeant,” said Lord Vetinari. “I do believe that puts you in the lead.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… I do believe it does, sir,” squeaked Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">However</em>, I find that you have left me the use of my U, N and A, B, L, E,” the Patrician went on, “which incidentally lands me on this Three Times the Whole Worde square and, I rather suspect, wins me the game.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon sagged with relief.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A capital game, Leonard,” said Vetinari. “What did you say it was called?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I call it the ‘Make Words With Letters That Have All Been Mixed Up Game’, my lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Yes. Obviously. Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh, an' I got three points,” mumbled Nobby. “They was perfectly good words that you wouldn't let me have, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure the gentlemen don't want to know those words,” said Colon severely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd have got ten points for that X.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard looked up. “Strange. We seem to have stopped moving…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached up and opened the hatch. Damp night air poured in, and there was the sound of voices, quite close, echoing loudly as voices do when heard across water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Heathen Klatchian talk,” said Colon. “What are they gabblin' about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘What nephew of a camel cut the rigging?’” said Lord Vetinari, without looking up. “‘Not just the ropes, look at this sail – here, give me a hand…’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't know you spoke Klatchian, my lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not a word,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I did not,” said Vetinari calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… right…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where are we, Leonard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, er, my star charts are all out of date, of course, but if you would care to wait until the sun rises, and I've invented a device for ascertaining position by reference to the sun, and devised a satisfactorily accurate watch—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where are we <em class="calibre9">now</em>, Leonard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… in the middle of the Circle Sea, I suspect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The middle?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pretty close, I should say. Look, if I can measure the wind speed—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then Leshp should be in this vicinity?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes, I should—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Unhitch us from his apparently stricken ship while we still have the cover of darkness and in the morning I wish to see this troublesome land. In the meantime, I suggest that everyone gets some sleep.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon did not get a lot of sleep. This was partly because he was woken up several times by sawing and banging coming from the front of the Boat, and partly because water kept dripping on his head, but mainly because the lull in activity was causing him to consider his position.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sometimes when he woke up he saw the Patrician hunched over Leonard's drawings, a gaunt silhouette in the light of the candle – reading, making notes…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was in the immediate company of a man even the Assassins' Guild was frightened of, another man who would stay up all night in order to invent an alarm clock to wake him up in the morning, and a man who had never knowingly changed his underwear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And he was at sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to look on the bright side. What was the main reason why he hated boats? The fact that they sank, right? But this one had the sinking <em class="calibre9">built in</em> right from the start And you didn't have to watch the waves going <em class="calibre9">up</em> and <em class="calibre9">down</em>, because they were already above you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All this was logical. It just wasn't very comforting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When he awoke at one point there were faint voices coming from the other end of the vessel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—<em class="calibre9">don't quite understand, my lord. Why them?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">They do what they're told, they tend to believe the last thing they heard, they're not bright enough to ask questions, and they have that certain unshakable loyalty available to those unencumbered by too much intelligence</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I suppose so, my lord</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Such men are valuable, believe me</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon turned over and tried to make himself comfortable. Glad I'm not like <em class="calibre9">those</em> poor bastards, he thought as he drifted off to sleep on the bosom of the deep. I'm a man with special qualities.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook his head. The stern light of the Klatchian ship was barely visible in the gloom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are we gaining on them?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Jenkins nodded. “We might be. There's a lot of sea between us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And has <em class="calibre9">all</em> excess weight been thrown overboard?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes! What do you want me to do, shave my beard off?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's face appeared over the edge of the hold, “All the lads are bedded down, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll turn in for a few hours too, sir, if it's all right with you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, captain?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll get my head down, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… but—” Vimes waved vaguely at the darkening horizon, “we're in hot pursuit of your girlfriend! Among other things,” he added.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So aren't you… you mean you can… you want to… captain, you intend to go and have <em class="calibre9">a bit of a nap</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To be fresh for when we catch up with them. Yes, sir. If I spend the whole night staring out there worrying then I'll probably be a bit useless when we catch up with them, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It made sense. It really <em class="calibre9">did</em> make sense. Of <em class="calibre9">course</em> it made sense. Vimes could see the sense all over it. Carrot had actually sat down and thought <em class="calibre9">sensibly</em> about things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll be able to get to sleep, will you?” he said weakly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. I owe it to Angua.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Well… goodnight, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot disappeared into the hold again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good heavens,” said Jenkins. “Is he real?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean… would you go and bang your ear if he was chasing <em class="calibre9">your</em> lady in that ship?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes said nothing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins sniggered. “Mind you, if it was Lady Sybil, she'd be a bit lower on the waterline—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just watch the… the sea. Don't run into any damn whales or anything,” said Vimes, and strode up to the sharp end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot, he thought. If you didn't know him, you wouldn't believe it…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're slowing, Mr Vimes!” Jenkins called out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I reckon they're slowing down, I said!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So what're you going to do when we catch them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…” Vimes hadn't given this a lot of thought. But he recalled a very bad woodcut he'd once seen in a book about pirates.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll swing across on to them with our cutlasses in our teeth?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Jenkins. “That's good. I haven't seen that done in years. Only ever seen it done once, in fact.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, this lad'd seen the idea in a book and he swung across into the other ship's rigging with his cutlass clenched, as you say, between his teeth.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Topless Harry, we wrote on his coffin.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know if you've ever seen a soft-boiled egg after you've picked up your knife and sli—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, I see the point. What do you suggest?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Grapnels. You can't beat grapnels. Catch 'em on the other ship and just pull 'em towards you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you've got grapnels?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. Saw some only today, in fact.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Then—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As I recall,” Jenkins went on relentlessly, “it was when your Sergeant Detritus was chucking stuff over the side and he said, ‘What shall we do with dese bendy, hooky things, sir?’ and someone, can't recall his name just at this minute, said, ‘They're dead weight, throw them over.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why didn't you say something?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, well, I didn't like to,” said Jenkins. “You were doing so well.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't mess me about, captain. Otherwise I'll clap you in irons.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you ain't going to do that, and I'll tell you why. First, 'cos when Captain Carrot said, ‘These chains, sir, what shall I do with them?’ you said—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, you listen to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and, second, I don't reckon you know anything about ships, oh deary me. We don't clap people in irons, we put them in chains. Do you know how to splice the mainbrace? 'Cos I don't. All that yohoho stuff's for landlubbers, or it would be if we ever used words like landlubber. Do you know the difference between port and starboard? I don't. I've never even drunk starboard. Shiver my timber!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Isn't it ‘shiver my timbers’?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've been ill.” Captain Jenkins spun the wheel. “Also, this is a frisky wind and me and my crew know how to pull the strings that make the big square canvas things work properly. If your men tried it you'd soon find out how far it is to land.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How far is it to land?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“About thirty fathoms, hereabouts.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The light was noticeably nearer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good grief, what <em class="calibre9">now</em>?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Eight pee em. Er… Narrowly Escape Assassination by Klatchian Spy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went cold. “Where?” he said, looking around wildly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corner of Brewer Street and Broadway,” said the little sing-song voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I'm not there!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's the point of having appointments, then? What's the point of my making an effort? You <em class="calibre9">told</em> me you wanted to know what you <em class="calibre9">ought</em> to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Listen, you don't have an appointment for being assassinated!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The demon went silent for a moment, and then said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean it should be on your To Do list?” Its voice was trembling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean like: ‘To Do: Die’?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, it's no good taking it out on me just because you're not on the right time line!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What the hell does that mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha, I <em class="calibre9">knew</em> you didn't read the manual! Chapter xvii-2(c) makes it very clear that sticking to one reality is vitally important, otherwise the Uncertainty Principle says—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Forget I asked, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glared at Jenkins and at the distant ship.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll do this my way, wherever the hell we are,” he said. He strode to the hold and pulled aside a hatchway. “Detritus?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchian sailors struggled with the canvas while their captain screamed at them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed didn't scream. He just stood with his sword in his hand, watching.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain hurried over to him, trembling with fear and holding a length of rope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>?” he said. “Someone cut it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who would do that?” said 71-hour Ahmed quietly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I do not know, but when I find him—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The dogs are almost on us,” said Ahmed. “You and your men will work faster.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who could have done such a thing?” said the captain. “You were here, how could they—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His gaze flickered from the cut rope to the sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Was there something you wished to say?” said Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain hadn't got where he was by being stupid. He spun round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Get that sail up right now, you festering sons of bitches!” he screamed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good,” said 71-hour Ahmed.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus's crossbow was originally a three-man, siege weapon, but he had removed the windlass as an unnecessary encumbrance. He cocked it by hand. Usually the mere sight of the troll pulling the string back with one finger was enough to make the strongwilled surrender.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked doubtfully at the distant light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It a million-to-one chance,” he said. “Got to be closer'n this.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just hit it below the waterline so they can't cut the rope” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's the problem, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We headin' for Klatch, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, in that direction, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only… I'm gonna be really stoopid in Klatch, 'cos a der heat, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hope we're going to stop them before we get there, Detritus.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ain't keen on bein' stoopid. I know people say, that troll Detritus, he ficker than a, than a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—brick sandwich—” said Vimes, staring at the light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. Only I hearin' it get really, really <em class="calibre9">hot</em> in der desert…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The troll looked so mournful that Vimes felt moved to give him a cheerful slap on the back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then let's stop them now, eh?” he said, shaking his hand hurriedly to stop the stinging.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The other ship was so close they could see the sailors working feverishly on the deck. The mainsail billowed in the lamplight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus raised the bow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A ball of blue-green light glowed on the tip of the arrow. The troll stared at it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then green fire ran down the masts and, when it hit the deck, burst into dozens of green balls that rolled, cracking and spitting, over the planks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dey're usin' magic?” said Detritus. A green flame spluttered-over his helmet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is this, Jenkins?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It ain't magic, it's <em class="calibre9">worse</em>'n magic,” said the captain, hurrying forward. “All right, lads, get those sails down right now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You leave them where they are!” shouted Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know what this <em class="calibre9">is</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It dun't even feel warm,” said Detritus, poking the flame on the crossbow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't touch it! Don't <em class="calibre9">touch</em> it! That's St Ungulant's Fire, that is! It means we're going to die in a dreadful storm!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked up. Clouds were racing across– No, they were <em class="calibre9">pouring into</em> the sky in great twisting billows, like ink streaming into water. Blue light flashed somewhere inside them. The ship lurched.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, we got to lose some sail!” shouted Jenkins. “That's the only way—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one touches anything!” shouted Vimes. Green fire skimmed along the tops of the waves now. “Detritus, arrest any man who touches anything!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We want to go fast, after all,” Vimes said, above the hissing and the distant crackle of thunder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins gawped at him as the ship lunged beneath them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're mad! Have you any idea what happens to a ship that tries to– You haven't got <em class="calibre9">any</em> idea, have you? This ain't normal weather! You have to ride it out careful! You can't try to run ahead of it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something slippery landed on Detritus's head and bounced onto the deck, where it tried to slither away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now it's raining fish!” Jenkins moaned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The clouds formed a yellow haze, lit almost constantly by the lightning. And it was warm. That was the strangest thing. The wind howled like a sack full of cats and the waves were turning into walls on either side of the ship, but the air felt like an oven.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, even the Klatchians are reducing sail!” shouted Jenkins, in a shower of shrimp.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. We'll catch them up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mad! <em class="calibre9">Ouch</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something hard rebounded from his hat, hit the rail and rolled to a stop by Vimes's feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a brass knob.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">no</em>,” moaned Jenkins, putting his arms over his head. “Now it's bloody bedsteads again!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain of the Klatchian ship was not an argumentative man when he was anywhere near 71-hour Ahmed. He just looked at the straining sails and calculated his chances of Paradise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps the dog who cut the sail loose did us a favour!” he shouted, above the roar of the wind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed said nothing. He kept looking back. The occasional burst of electric storm light showed the ship behind, aflame with green light.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he looked at the cold fire streaming behind their own masts.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you see that light on the edge of the flames?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My lord?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you, man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no…” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course you can't! But can you see where the light isn't?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain stared at him and then looked up again in terrified obedience. And there was somewhere where the light wasn't. As the fizzing green tongues waved in the wind they seemed to be edged with… blackness, perhaps, or a moving hole in space.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's octarine!” shouted Ahmed, as another wave sloshed over the deck. “Only wizards can see it! There's magic in these storms! That's why the weather is so bad!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The ship screamed in every joint as it hit the waves again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're coming right out of the water!” wept Jenkins. “We're just going from crest to crest!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good! It won't be so bumpy!” shouted Vimes. “We should pick up speed again now we've got those bedsteads over the side! Does it often rain bedsteads out here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do <em class="calibre9">you</em> think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not a nautical man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, rains of bedsteads are <em class="calibre9">not</em> an everyday occurrence! Nor are coal scuttles!” Jenkins added, as something black crashed off a rail and over the side. “We just get the normal stuff, you know! Rain! Snow! Sleet! Fish!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Another squall blew across the bounding boat and the deck was suddenly covered with flashing silver.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Back to fish!” shouted Vimes. “That's better, surely?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! It's worse!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins held up a tin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These are sardines!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The ship thumped into another wave, groaned, and took flight again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cold green fire was everywhere. Every nail of the deck sprouted its flame, every rope and ladder had its green outline.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the feeling crept over Vimes that it was holding the ship together. He wasn't at all sure that it was just light. It moved too purposefully. It crackled, but it didn't sting. It looked as though it was having fun</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The ship landed. Water washed over Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain Jenkins!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why're we playing with this wheel? It's not as if the rudder's in the water!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They let go. The spokes blurred for a moment, and then stopped as the fire wrapped itself around them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then it rained cake.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Watch had tried to make themselves comfortable in the hold, but there were difficulties. There wasn't any area of floor which at some point in every ten seconds wasn't an area of wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, someone was snoring.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How can anyone sleep in <em class="calibre9">this</em>?” said Reg Shoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain Carrot can,” said Cheery. She was hacking at something with her axe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot had wedged himself into a corner. Occasionally he mumbled something, and shifted position.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like a baby. Beats me how he's managing it,” said Reg Shoe. “Of course, any minute this thing is going to fall apart.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but dat shouldn't worry you, should it?” said Detritus. “On account of you bein' dead already?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So? I end up at the bottom of the sea knee-deep in whale droppings? And it'll be a long walk home in the dark. Not to mention the problems if a shark tries to eat me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall fear not. According to the Testament of Mezerek, the fishermen Nonpo spent four days in the belly of a giant fish,” said Constable Visit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The thunder seemed particularly loud in the silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Washpot, are we talking miracles here?” said Reg eventually. “Or just a very slow digestive process?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You would be better employed considering the state of your immortal soul than making jokes,” said Constable Visit severely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the state of my immortal body that's worrying me,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have a leaflet here which will bring you considerable—” Visit began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Washpot, is it big enough to be folded into a boat that'll save us all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Visit pounced on the opening. “Aha, yes, metaphorically it <em class="calibre9">is</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hasn't this ship <em class="calibre9">got</em> a lifeboat?” said Cheery hurriedly. “I'm sure I saw one when we came on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah… lifeboat,” said Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyone want a sardine?” said Cheery. “I've managed to get a tin open.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lifeboat,” Detritus repeated. He sounded like someone exploring an unpleasant truth. “Like… a big, heavy thing which would've slowed us down…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I saw it, I know I did,” said Reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah… dere was one,” said Detritus. “Dat was a lifeboat, was it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At the very least we ought to get somewhere sheltered and drop the anchor.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah… anchor…” mused Detritus. “Dat's a big thing kinda hooks on, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Kinda heavy thing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Obviously!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. An'… er… if it was dropped a long time ago, on accounta bein' heavy, dat wouldn't do us much good now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hardly.” Reg Shoe glared through the hatchway. The sky was a dirty yellow blanket, criss-crossed with fire. Thunder boomed continuously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder how far the barometer's sunk?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All der way,” said Detritus gloomily. “Trust me on dis.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It was in the nature of a D'reg to open doors carefully. There was generally an enemy on the other side. Sooner or later.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He saw the collar lying on the floor, right by a little fountain of water trickling from the hull, and swore under his breath.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed waited just a moment, and then pushed the door back quietly. It rattled against the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't intend to harm you,” he said to the gloom of the bilges. “If that was my intention, by now you'd—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She wished she'd used the wolf. There would have been no problem with the wolf. That was the problem. She'd easily win, but then she'd be nervy and frightened. A human could stay on top of that. A wolf might not. She'd do the wrong things, panicky things, animal things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She pushed him hard as she dropped down from above the door, somersaulted backwards, slammed the door and turned the key.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sword came through the planking like a hot knife through runny lard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a gasp beside her. She spun round and saw two men holding a net. They would have thrown it over the wolf. What they hadn't been expecting was a naked woman. The sudden appearance of a naked woman always caused a rethink of anyone's immediate plans.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She kicked them both hard and ran in the opposite direction, opened the first door at random and slammed it behind her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was the cabin with the dogs in it. They sprang to their feet, opened their mouths – and slunk down again. A werewolf can have considerable power over other animals, whatever shape she's in, although it is largely the power to make them cringe and try to look inedible.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She hurried past them and pulled at one of the hangings over the bunk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man in the bunk opened his eyes. He was a Klatchian, but pale with weakness and pain. There were dark rings under his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” he said, “it would appear that I have died and gone to Paradise. Are you a <em class="calibre9">houri</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't have to take that kind of language, thank you,” said Angua, ripping the silk in two with a practised hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She was aware that she had a slight advantage over male werewolves in that naked women caused fewer complaints, although the downside was that they got some pressing invitations. Some kind of covering was essential, for modesty and the prevention of inconvenient bouncing, which was why fashioning impromptu clothes out of anything to hand was a lesser-known werewolf skill.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua stopped. Of course, to the unpractised eye all Klatchians looked alike, but then to a werewolf all humans looked alike: they looked appetizing. She'd learned to discern.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you Prince Khufarah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am. And you are…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The door was kicked open. Angua leapt towards the window and flung aside the bar restraining the shutters. Water funnelled into the cabin, drenching her, but she managed to scramble up and out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just passing through?” the Prince murmured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">71-hour Ahmed strode to the window and looked out. Green-blue waves edged with fire fought outside as the ship heaved. No one could stay afloat in a sea like that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned and looked along the hull to where Angua was clinging to a trailing line.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She saw him wink at her. Then he turned away and she heard him say, “She must have drowned. Back to your posts!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Presently, up on the deck, a hatch closed.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The sun rose in a cloudless sky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A watcher, if such had been out here, would have noticed a slight difference in the way the swells were moving on this tiny patch of sea.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They might even have wondered about the piece of bent piping which turned with a faint squeaking noise.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Had they been able to place an ear to it, they would have heard the following:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—idea while I was dozing off. Piece of pipe, two angled mirrors – the solution to all our steering and air problems!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fascinating. A Seeing-Things-Pipe-You-Can-Breathe-Down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My goodness, how did you know it was called that, my lord?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A lucky guess.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ere, someone's re-designed my pedalling seat, it's <em class="calibre9">comfortable</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes, corporal, I took some measurements while you were asleep and rebuilt it for a better anatomical configu—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You took measurements?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes, I—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, of my… saddlery regions?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, please don't be concerned, anatomy is something of a passion with me—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it? Is it? Well, you can stop being passionate about mine for a start—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, I can see an island of some sort!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The pipe squeaked around.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, Leshp. And I see people. To your pedals, gentlemen. Let us explore the ocean's bottom…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect we shall, with <em class="calibre9">him</em> steering—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The pipe slid down into the waves. There was a little flurry of bubbles and a damp argument about whose job it should have been to put the cork in, and then the patch of sea that had been empty was, somehow, a little bit emptier still.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">There weren't any fish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At a time like this Solid Jackson would have even been prepared to eat Curious Squid.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the sea was empty. And it smelled wrong. It fizzed gently. Solid could see little bubbles breaking on the surface, which burst with a smell of sulphur and rotting eggs. He guessed that the rise of the land must have stirred up a lot of mud. It was bad enough at the bottom of a pond, all those frogs and bugs and things, and this was the sea</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried hard to reverse that train of thought, but it kept on rising from the depths like a… like a…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Why were there no fish? Oh, there'd been the storm last night, but generally you got better fishing in these parts after a storm because it… stirred… up…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The raft rocked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was beginning to think it might be a good idea to go home, but that'd mean leaving the land to the Klatchians, and that'd happen over his dead body.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The treacherous internal voice said: Funnily enough, they never found Mr Hong's body. Not most of the important bits, anyway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think, think, I think we'll be getting back now,” he said to his son.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Dad,” said Les. “Another dinner of limpets and seaweed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing wrong with seaweed,” said Jackson. “It's full of nourishing… seaweed. 's got iron in it. Good for you, iron.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why don't we boil an anchor, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“None of your lip, son.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Klatchians have got bread,” said Les. “They brought flour with them. And they've got firewood.” This was a sore point with Jackson. Efforts to make seaweed combust had not been successful.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but you wouldn't like their bread,” said Jackson. “It's all flat and got no proper crust—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A breeze blew the scent of baking over the water. It carried a hint of spices.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're baking bread! On <em class="calibre9">our</em> property!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, they say it's <em class="calibre9">their</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jackson grabbed the piece of broken plank he used as an oar and began to scull furiously towards the shore. The fact that this only made the raft go round in circles added to his fury.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They bloody move in right next to us and all we get is the stink of foreign food—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why's your mouth watering, Dad?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And how come they've got wood, may I ask?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think the current takes the driftwood to their side of the island, Dad—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See? They're stealing our driftwood! Our damn driftwood! Hah! Well, we'll—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I thought we agreed that the bit over <em class="calibre9">there</em> was theirs, and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jackson had finally remembered how to propel a raft with one oar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That wasn't an agreement,” he said, creating foam as the oar thrashed back and forth, “that was just an… an arrangement. It's not as if they <em class="calibre9">created</em> the driftwood. It just turned up. Accident of geography. It is a natural resource, right? It don't <em class="calibre9">belong</em> to anyone—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The raft hit something which made a metallic sound. But they were still a hundred yards from the rocks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something else, long and bent at the end, rose up with a creaking noise. It twisted around until it pointed at Jackson.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me,” it said, in a tinny yet polite voice, “but this is Leshp, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jackson made a sound in his throat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only,” the thing went on, “the water's a little cloudy and I thought we might have been going the wrong way for the last twenty minutes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leshp!” squeaked Jackson, in an unnaturally high-pitched voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, good. Thank you so much. Good day to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The appendage sank slowly into the sea again. The last sounds from it, erupting on the surface in a cloud of bubbles, were, “…don't forget to put the cork in– <em class="calibre9">You've forgot to put the cor</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The bubbles stopped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while Les said, “Dad, what was—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It wasn't anything!” snapped his father. “That sort of thing doesn't happen!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The raft shot forward. You could have waterski'd behind it.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Another important thing about the Boat, thought Sergeant Colon gloomily as they slipped back into a blue twilight, was that you couldn't bale out the bilges. It <em class="calibre9">was</em> the bilges.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was pedalling with his feet in water and he was suffering simultaneously from claustrophobia and agoraphobia. He was afraid of everything in <em class="calibre9">here</em> and everything out <em class="calibre9">there</em> at the same time. Plus, there were unpleasantnesses out there, moving past as the Boat drifted down the wall of rock. Feelers waved. There were claws. <em class="calibre9">Things</em> scuttled into the waving weeds. Giant clams watched Sergeant Colon with their lips.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Boat creaked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge,” said Nobby, as they looked out at the wonders of the deep.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know they say every tiny part of your body is replaced every seven years?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A well-known fact,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. So… I've got a tattoo on my arm, right? Had it done eight years ago. So… how come it's still there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Giant seaweeds winnowed the gloom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Interesting point,” quavered Colon. “Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, OK, new tiny bits of skin float in, but that means it ought to be all new and pink by now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A fish with a nose like a saw swam past.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the middle of all his other fears, Sergeant Colon tried to think fast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happens.” he said, “Is that all the blue skin bits are replaced by other blue skin bits. Off'f other people's tattoos.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… I've got other people's tattoos now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Amazing. 'cos it still looks like mine. 's got the crossed daggers and ‘WUM’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Wum?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was gonna be ‘Mum’ but I passed out and Needle Ned didn't notice I was upside down.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I should've thought he'd notice that…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He was pissed too. C'mon, sarge, you know it's not a proper tattoo unless no one can remember how it got there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard and the Patrician were staring out at the submarine landscape.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're they looking for?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Leonard keeps talking about hieroglyphs,” said Nobby. “What're they, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon hesitated, but not for long. “A type of mollusc, corporal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cor, you know everything, sarge,” said Nobby admiringly. “That's what hieroglyphs are, is it? So, if we go any deeper, they'll be loweroglyphs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was something slightly off-putting about Nobby's grin. Sergeant Colon decided to go for broke.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't be daft, Nobby. ‘Loweroglphys if you go lower…’ Oh my me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone knows you don't get loweroglyphs in these waters.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of Curious Squid peered at them, curiously.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins's ship was a floating wreck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Several sails were in tatters. Rigging and other string that Vimes refused to learn the nautical names for covered the deck and trailed in the water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Such sail as remained was moving them along in the brisk breeze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Atop the mast the lookout cupped his hands around his mouth and leaned down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Land ahoy!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Even I can see that,” said Vimes. “Why does he have to shout?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's lucky,” said Jenkins. He squinted into the haze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But your friend ain't heading for Gebra. Wonder where he's going?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at the pale yellow mass on the horizon, and then up at Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll get her back, don't worry,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wasn't actually worrying, sir. Although I am very concerned,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… right…” Vimes waved his arms helplessly, “Er… everyone fit and well? The men in good heart, are they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It would help morale no end if you were to say a few words, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The monstrous regiment of watchmen had lined up on the deck, blinking in the sunshine. Oh, dear. Round up the unusual suspects. One dwarf, one human who was brought up as a dwarf and thinks like a manual of etiquette, one zombie, one troll, me and, oh no, one religious fanatic—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Constable Visit saluted. “Permission to speak, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Go ahead,” mumbled Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm pleased to tell you, sir, that our mission is clearly divinely approved of, sir. I refer to the rain of sardines which sustained us in our extremity, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were a little hungry, I wouldn't say we were in extremi—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With respect, sir,” said Constable Visit firmly, “the pattern is firmly established, sir. Yes, indeed. The Sykoolites when being pursued in the wilderness by the forces of Offlerian Mitolites, sir, were sustained by a rain of celestial biscuits, sir. Chocolate ones, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perfectly normal phenomenon,” muttered Constable Shoe. “Probably swept up by the wind passing a baker's shop—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Visit glared at him, and went on: “And the Murmurians, when driven into the mountains by the tribes of Miskmik, would not have survived but for a magical rain of elephants, sir—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Elephants?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, one elephant, sir,” Visit conceded. “But it splashed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perfectly normal phenomenon,” said Constable Shoe. “Probably an elephant was picked up by a freak—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">And when they were thirsty</em> in the desert, sir, the Four Tribes of Khanli were succoured by a sudden and supernatural rain of rain, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A rain of rain?” said Vimes, almost mesmerized by Visit's absolute conviction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perfectly normal phenomenon,” sneered Reg Shoe. “Probably water was evaporated from the ocean, was blown through the sky, condensed around nuclei when it ran into cold air, and precipitated…” He stopped, and continued irritably, “Anyway, I don't believe it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… which particular deity is on our case?” said Vimes, hopefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall definitely inform you as soon as I have ascertained this, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… very good, constable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a step back. “I don't pretend this is going to be easy, men,” he said. “But our mission is to catch up with Angua and this bastard Ahmed and shake the truth out of him. Unfortunately, this means we will be following him through his own country, with which we are at war. This is bound to put a few barriers in our way. But we should not let the prospect of being tortured to death dismay us, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fortune favours the brave, sir,” said Carrot cheerfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Good. Pleased to hear it, captain. What is her position <em class="calibre9">vis a vis</em> heavily armed, well prepared and excessively manned armies?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no one's ever heard of Fortune favouring them, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“According to General Tacticus, it's because they favour themselves,” said Vimes. He opened the battered book. Bits of paper and string indicated his many bookmarks. “In fact, men, the general has this to say about ensuring against defeat when outnumbered, out-weaponed and outpositioned. It is…” he turned the page, “‘<em class="calibre9">Don't Have a Battle</em>.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sounds like a clever man,” said Jenkins. He pointed to the yellow horizon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See all that stuff in the air?” he said. “What do you think <em class="calibre9">that</em> is?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mist?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah, yes. <em class="calibre9">Klatchian</em> mist! It's a sandstorm! The sand blows about all the time. Vicious stuff. If you want to sharpen your sword, just hold it up in the air.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it's just as well because otherwise you'd see Mount Gebra. And below it is what they call the Fist of Gebra. It's a town but there's a bloody great fort, walls thirty feet thick. 's like a big city all by itself. 's got room inside for thousands of armed men, war elephants, battle camels, everything. And if you saw that, you'd want me to turn round right now. Whats your famous general got to say about it, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I saw something…” said Vimes. He flicked to another page. “Ah, yes, he says, ‘<em class="calibre9">After the first battle of Sto Lat, I formulated a policy which has stood me in good stead in other battles. It is this: if the enemy has an impregnable stronghold, see he stays there</em>.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a <em class="calibre9">lot</em> of help,” said Jenkins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes slipped the book into a pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So, Constable Visit, there's a god on our side, is there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But probably also a god on <em class="calibre9">their</em> side as well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very likely, sir. There's a god on every side.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's hope they balance out, then.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchian ship's boat hit the water with the gentlest of splashes. This was because 71-hour Ahmed was standing by the winches with his sword at the ready, which had the effect of making the men lowering the boat take some trouble over their task.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“When we are away you may take the ship into Gebra,” he said to the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The captain trembled. “What shall I tell them, <em class="calibre9">wali</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell them the truth… eventually. The commander of the garrison is a man of no breeding and will torture you a little bit. Save up the truth until you need it. That will make him happy. It will help you to say that I forced you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I will. I <em class="calibre9">will</em>… tell that lie,” the captain added quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed nodded, slid down the rope into the boat and set it adrift</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crew watched him row through the surf.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This wasn't a nice beach. It was a wrecking coast. Ribcages of broken ships crumbled into the sand. Bones and driftwood and bleached white seaweed mounded along the high tide line. And beyond, the dunes of the real desert rose. Even down here sand stung the eyes and gritted the teeth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's sudden death on that beach,” said the first mate, looking over the rail and trying to blink his eyes clear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes,” said the captain. “Hes just got out of the boat.” The figure on the beach pulled the other, recumbent figure out of the boat and dragged him out of reach of the waves. The mate raised his bow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could kill him from here, master. Just say the word.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How sure are you? Because you'd better be <em class="calibre9">really</em> sure. First, if you miss him you're dead and, second, if you hit him, you're <em class="calibre9">still</em> dead. Look up there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the high distant dunes, dark against the sandfilled sky, there were mounted figures. The mate dropped his bow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How did they know we were here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, they watch the sea,” said the captain. “D'regs like a good shipwreck as much as anyone else. More, in fact. A lot more.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As they turned away from the rail, something leapt from the hull and entered the water with barely a splash.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Detritus tried to lurk in the shade, but there was not a lot of it about. The heat came off the high desert ahead of them like a blowtorch.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm gonna get fick,” he muttered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a shout from the lookout.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says someone's climbing the dunes,” said Carrot. “Carrying someone else, he says.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… female?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, sir, I know Angua. She's not the useless type. She doesn't stand there and scream helplessly. She makes other people do that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… if you're sure…” Vimes turned to Jenkins. “Don't bother to chase the ship, captain. Just keep heading for the shore.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't work like that, mister. For one thing, that' s a damn difficult shore, the wind's always against you, and there's some very nasty currents. Many an incautious sailorman has left his bones to bleach on those sands. No, we'll stand out a little way and you can lower the– well, if we had a boat any more, you could lower it… and we'll drop the anchor, oh, no, tell a lie, it turned out to be too heavy, didn't it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You just keep straight on,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll all be killed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Think of it as the lesser of two evils.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's the other one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes drew his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Me.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Boat squeaked through the mysterious depths of the ocean. Leonard spent a lot of time looking out of the tiny windows, particularly interested in pieces of seaweed which, to Sergeant Colon, looked like pieces of seaweed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you note the fine strands of Dropley's Etoliated Bladderwrack?” said Leonard. “That's the brown stuff. A marvellous growth which, of course, you will see as significant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could we just assume for the moment that I have neglected my seaweed studies in recent years?” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Oh, the loss is entirely yours, I assure you. The point <em class="calibre9">is</em>, of course, that the Etoliated Bladderwrack is never usually found growing above thirty fathoms, and it's only ten here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah.” The Patrician flicked through a stack of Leonard's drawings. “And the hieroglyphs – an alphabet of signs and colours. Colours as a language… what a fascinating idea…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An <em class="calibre9">emotional</em> intensifier,” said Leonard. “But of course we ourselves use something like it. Red for danger and so on. I never did succeed in translating it, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Colours as a language…” murmured Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon cleared his throat. “I know something about seaweed, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir! If it's wet, sir, it means it's going to rain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sergeant,” said Lord Vetinari, without turning his head. “I think it is quite possible that I will never forget you said that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon beamed. He had Made A Contribution.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby nudged him. “What're we doing down here, sarge? I mean, what's it all about? Poking around, looking at weird marks on the rocks, going in and out of caves… and the smell… well…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not me,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Smells like… sulphur…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Little bubbles streamed past the window.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It stunk up on the surface, too,” Nobby went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nearly finished, gentlemen,” said Lord Vetinari, putting the papers aside. “One last little venture and then we can surface. Very well, Leonard… take us <em class="calibre9">underneath</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… aren't we underneath already, sir?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only underneath the sea, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Right.” Colon gave this due consideration. “Is there anything else to be under, then, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant. Now we're going under the land.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The beach was a lot closer now. The watchmen couldn't help noticing that the sailors were all hurrying to the blunt end of the ship and hanging on to any small, lightweight and above all buoyant objects they could find.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This seems close enough,” said Vimes. “Right. Stop here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop here? How?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't ask me, I'm no sailor. Aren't there some sort of brakes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins stared at him. “You – you landlubber!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you never used the word!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never met one like you before! You even think we call the bows the sharp en—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was, the crew agreed later, one of the strangest landings in the history of bad seamanship. The shelving of the beach must have been right and the tide as well, because the ship did not so much hit the beach as sail up it, rising out of the water as the keel de-barnacled itself on the sand. Finally the forces of wind, water, impetus and friction all met at the point marked “fall over slowly”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It did so, earning the title of “world's most laughable shipwreck”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, that might have been worse,” said Vimes, when the splintering noises had died away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He eased himself out of a tangle of canvas and adjusted his helmet with as much aplomb as he could muster.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard a groan from the lopsided hold.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is dat you, Cheery?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Detritus.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is dis me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot eased his way down the sloping deck and jumped onto the damp sand. He saluted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All present and lightly bruised, sir. Shall we establish a beachhead?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A what?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have to dig in, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked both ways along the beach, if such a sunny-sounding word could be applied to the forsaken strand. It was really just a hem to the land. Nothing stirred except the heat haze and, in the distance, one or two carrion birds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What for?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Establish a defensible position. It's just one of those things soldiers do, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at the birds. They were approaching with a kind of sidling sideways hop, ready to move in just as soon as anyone had been dead for a few days. Then he flicked through <em class="calibre9">Tacticus</em> until the word “beachhead” caught his eye.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It says here ‘If you want your men to spend much time wielding a shovel, encourage them to become farmers,’” he said. “So I think we'll press on. He can't have got very far. We'll be back soon.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins waded out of the surf. He didn't look angry. He was a man who had passed through the fires of anger and was now in some strange peaceful bay beyond them. He pointed a quivering finger at his stricken ship and said “Muh…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pretty good shape, all things considered,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Muh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure you and your salty sailors will be able to float it again.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Muh…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins and his wading crew watched the regiment as it slithered and complained its way up the side of the dune. Eventually the crew went into a huddle and drew lots and the cook, who was always unlucky in games of chance, approached the captain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never mind, captain,” he said, “we can probably find some decent balks of timber in all this driftwood, and a few days' work with block and tackle should—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Muh.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only… we'd better get started 'cos he said they won't be long…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They won't be back!” said the captain. “The water they've got won't last a day up there! They haven't got the right gear! And once they're out of sight of the sea they'll get lost!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It took half an hour to get to the top of the dune. The sand had been stamped down but, even as Vimes watched, the wind caught the particles and nibbled away at the prints.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Camel tracks,” said Vimes. “Well, camels don't go all that fast. Let's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think Detritus is having real trouble, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The troll was standing with his knuckles on the ground. The motor of his cooling helmet sounded harsh for a moment in the dry air, and then stopped as the sand got into the mechanism.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Feelin' fick,” he muttered. “My brain hurts.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quick, hold your shield over his head,” said Vimes. “Give him some shade!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's never going to make it, sir,” said Carrot. “Let's send him back down to the boat.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We need him! Quick, Cheery, fan him with your axe!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At which point, the sand stood up and drew a hundred swords.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep!” said a cheerful if somewhat muffled voice. “Eleven eh em, Get Haircut… er… that's right… isn't it?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't large, but slabs of collapsing building had smashed together in such a way that they made a cistern that the rain had filled half full.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Solid Jackson slapped his son on the back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fresh water! At last!” he said. “Well done, lad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You see, I was looking at these sort of painting things, Dad, and then—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, yeah, pictures of octopuses, very nice,” said Jackson. “Hah! The ball is on the other foot now and no mistake! It's <em class="calibre9">our</em> water on <em class="calibre9">our</em> side of the island, and I'd just like to see them greasy buggers claim otherwise. Let 'em keep their damn driftwood and suck water out of fishes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, Dad,” said Les. “And we can trade them some of the water for wood and flour, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His father waved a hand cautiously. “<em class="calibre9">Maybe</em>,” he said. “No need to rush into that, though. We're pretty close to finding a seaweed that'll burn. I mean, what're our long-term objectives here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cooking meals and keeping warm?” said Les hopefully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, <em class="calibre9">initially</em>,” said Jackson. “That's obvious. But you know what they say, lad. ‘Give a man a fire and he's warm for a day, but set fire to him and he's warm for the rest of his life.’ See my point?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think that's actually what the saying is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, we can stop here living on water and raw fish for… well, practically for ever. But that lot can't go without proper fresh water for much longer. See? So they'll have to come begging to us, right? And then we deal on our terms, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He put his arm around his son's reluctant shoulders and waved a hand at the landscape.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, I started out with nothing, son, except that old boat that your grandad left me, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—you worked and scraped—” said Les wearily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—I worked and scraped—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and you've always kept your head above water—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—right, I've always kept my head above water—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you've always wanted to leave me something that– Ow!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop making fun of your dad!” said Jackson. “Otherwise I'll wallop the other ear. Look, you see this land? You see it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see it, Dad.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a <em class="calibre9">land of opportunity</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But there's no fresh water and all the ground's full of salt, Dad, and it smells <em class="calibre9">bad</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's the smell of freedom, that is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Smells like someone did a really big fart, Dad– Ow!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sometimes the two are very similar! And it's your future I'm thinking of, lad!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Les looked at the acres of decomposing seaweed in front of him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was learning to be a fisherman like his father before him because that's how the family had always done it and he was too good-natured to argue, although he actually wanted to be a painter like no one in the family had ever been before. He was noticing things, and they worried him even though he couldn't quite say why.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the buildings didn't look right. Here and there were definite bits of, well, architecture, like Morporkian pillars and the remains of Klatchian arches, but they'd been added to buildings that looked as though some ham-fisted people had just piled rocks on top of one another. And then in other places the slabs had been stacked <em class="calibre9">on top</em> of ancient brick walls and tiled floors. He couldn't imagine who'd done the tiling, but they did like pictures of octopussies.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The feeling was stealing over him that Morporkians and Klatchians arguing over who owned this piece of old sea bottom was <em class="calibre9">extremely</em> pointless.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… I'm thinking about my future too, Dad,” he said. “I really am.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Far below Solid Jackson's feet, the Boat surfaced. Sergeant Colon reached automatically for the screws that held the lid shut.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't open it, sergeant!” shouted Leonard, rising from his seat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The air's getting pretty lived-in, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's worse outside.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Worse than in here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm almost certain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we're on the surface!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A surface, sergeant,” said Lord Vetinari. Beside him, Nobby uncorked the seeing device and peered through it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're in a cave?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… sarge…” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Capital! Well worked out,” said Lord Vetinari. “Yes. A cave. You could say that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… sarge?” said Nobby again, nudging Colon. “This isn't a cave, sarge! It's bigger than a cave, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, you mean… like a cavern?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bigger!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bigger'n a cavern? More like a… <em class="calibre9">big</em> cavern?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, that'd be about right,” said Nobby, taking his eye away from the device. “Have a look yourself, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon peered into the tube.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Instead of the darkness he was half expecting, he saw the sea's surface, bubbling like a boiling saucepan. Green and yellow flashes of lightning danced across the water, illuminating a distant wall that seemed practically a horizon…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tube squeaked around. If this was a cave, it was at least a couple of miles across.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How long, do you think?” said Lord Vetinari, behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, the rock has a large proportion of tufa and pumice, very light, and once floated up the build-up of gas starts to escape very rapidly because of the swell,” said Leonard. “I don't know… perhaps another week… and then I think it takes a very long time for a sufficient bubble to build up again…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're they saying, sarge?” said Nobby. “This place <em class="calibre9">floats</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A most unusual natural phenomenon,” Leonard went on. “I'd have thought it was just a legend had I not seen it for myself…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course it's not floating,” said Sergeant Colon. “Honestly, Nobby, how're you ever going to find out anything when you ask daft questions like that? Land's heavier than water, right? That's why you find it at the bottom of the sea.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but he said pumice, and my gran had a pumice stone that worked a treat for getting tough skin off'f your feet in the tub and that'd float—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That sort of thing happens in bath tubs <em class="calibre9">maybe</em>,” said Colon. “Not in real life. This is just a phenomena. It's not <em class="calibre9">real</em>. Next thing you'll be saying there's rocks up in the sky.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am a sergeant, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It puts me in mind,” said Leonard, “of those nautical stories about giant turtles that sleep on the surface, thus causing sailors to think they are an island. Of course, you don't get giant turtles that small.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hey, Mr Quirm, this is an amazing boat,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I bet you could even smash up ships with it if you wanted.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was an embarrassed silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Altogether an interesting experience,” said Lord Vetinari, making some notes. “And now, gentlemen – downward and onward, please…”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen drew their weapons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're D'regs, sir,” said Carrot. “But – this is all wrong…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We're not dead yet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They're watching us like cats watch mice, thought Vimes. We can't run away and we can't win a fight, and they want to see what we'll do next.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What does General Tacticus have to say about sir?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There's a hundred of them, thought Vimes. And six of us. Except that Detritus is drifting off and there's no knowing what particular commandment Visit is obeying right now and Reg's arms tend to drop off when he gets excited—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know,” he said. “Probably something on the lines of Don't Allow This to Happen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why don't you check, sir?” said Carrot, not taking his eyes off the watching D'regs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said, why don't you check, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It might be worth a try, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's crazy, captain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. The D'regs have some very strange notions about crazy people, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled out the battered book. The D'reg nearest to him, with a grin almost as wide and as curved as his sword, had a certain additional swagger that suggested chieftainship. A huge ancient crossbow was slung on his back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I say!” said Vimes. “Could we just delay things a little?” He strode towards the man, who looked very surprised, and waved the book in the air. “This is a book by General Tacticus, don't know if you've ever heard of him, quite a big name in these parts once, probably slaughtered your great-great-great-great-grandfather in fact, and I just want to take a moment to see what he has to say about this situation. You don't mind, do you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man gave Vimes a puzzled look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This might take a moment, there's no index, but I think I saw something—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The chieftain took a step backwards and looked at the men next to him, who shrugged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder if you could help me with this word here?” Vimes went on, reaching the man's side and holding the book under his nose. He got another puzzled grin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What Vimes did next was known in Ankh-Morpork's alleyways as the Friendly Handshake, and consisted largely of driving his elbow into the man's stomach, then bringing his knee up to meet the man's chin on its way down, gritting his own teeth because of the pain in both knee and ankle, and then drawing his sword and holding it to the D'reg's throat before he could scramble up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now, captain,” said Vimes, “I'd like you to say in a loud clear voice that unless they back off a really long way, this gentleman here is going to be in some very serious legal trouble.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Vimes, I don't think—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The D'reg looked into his eyes while Carrot hawked his way through the demand. The man was <em class="calibre9">still</em> grinning</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes couldn't risk shifting his gaze, but he sensed some puzzlement and confusion among the tribesmen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then, as one man, they charged.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A Klatchian fishing boat, whose captain knew which way the wind was blowing, made its way back to the harbour of Al-Khali It seemed to the captain that, despite the favourable wind, he wasn't making quite the speed he should. He put it down to barnacles.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes awoke with a noseful of camel. There are far worse awakenings, but not as many as you might think</div>
      <div class="paragraph">By turning his head, which took some effort, he ascertained that the camel was sitting down. By the sound of things, it was digesting something explosive.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now, how had he got here… Oh, gods…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But it <em class="calibre9">should</em> have worked… It was <em class="calibre9">classic</em>. You threatened to cut off the head and the body just folded up. That was how everyone reacted, wasn't it? That was practically how civilization worked…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Put it down to cultural differences, then.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the other hand, he wasn't dead. According to Carrot, knowing the D'regs for five minutes and still being alive at the end of it meant that they really, really liked you.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On the <em class="calibre9">other</em> other hand, he'd just given their head man a Handshake, which influenced people without making friends.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, no sense lying over this saddle bound hand and foot and dying of sunstroke all day. He ought to start being a leader of men again, and would do so just as soon as he could get this camel out of his mouth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?” said Vimes, struggling with his bonds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would you like to know about the appointments you missed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! I'm trying to get these damn ropes untied!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you want me to put that on your To Do list?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you've woken up, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It sounded like Carrot's voice and it was the sort of thing he'd say. Vimes tried to turn his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What he saw was mainly a white sheet, but it then became Carrot's face, upside down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They asked if they should untie you but I said you hadn't been getting enough rest lately,” Carrot went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain, my arms and legs have gone to sleep…” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, well done, sir! That's a start, at least.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want you to listen very carefully to the order I am about to give you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The point I'm making is that it won't be a request or a suggestion or some sort of hint.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Understood, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I have, as you know, always encouraged my officers to think for themselves and not blindly obey me, but sometimes in any organization it is necessary for instructions to be followed to the letter and with alacrity.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Untie me right now or you'll bloody well live to regret untying me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sir, I believe there is an inadvertent inconsistency in—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His ropes were cut. He slid down onto the sand. The camel turned its head, looked at him with its nostrils for a moment, and then looked away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes managed to sit upright while Carrot busied himself cutting the rest of his bonds.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain, why are you wearing a white sheet?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a <em class="calibre9">burnous</em>, sir. Very practical for desert wear. The D'regs gave them to us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Us?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The rest of us, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Everyone's OK?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they attacked—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. But they only wanted to take us prisoner, sir. One of them did accidentally cut Reg's head off, but he did help him sew it on again, so no real harm done there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought D'regs didn't take prisoners…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Beats me too, sir. But they say if we try to escape they'll cut our feet off, and Reg says he hasn't got enough thread for everyone, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rubbed his head, Someone had hit him so hard his helmet was dented.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What went wrong?” he said. “I had their boss down!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“As I understand it, sir, the D'regs think that any leader who is stupid enough to be defeated so easily isn't worth following. It's a Klatchian thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried to persuade himself that there wasn't a hint of sarcasm in Carrot's voice as he went on: “They're not really very interested in leaders, sir, to tell you the truth. They look on them as a sort of ornament. You know… just someone to shout ‘Charge!’, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A leader has to do other things, Carrot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The D'regs think ‘Charge!’ pretty well covers all of them, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes managed to stand up. Strange muscles twanged in his legs. He tottered forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, let me give you a hand…” said Carrot, catching him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sun was setting. Ragged tents clustered below one of the dunes, and there was the glow of firelight. Someone was laughing. It didn't <em class="calibre9">sound</em> like a prison.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But then, thought Vimes, the desert was probably better than bars, He wouldn't even know which way to run, feet or no feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The D'regs, like all Klatchians, are a very hospitable people,” said Carrot, as if he'd memorized this. “They take hospitality very, very seriously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their captors were sitting round the fire. So were the watchmen. They'd also been persuaded to dress more suitably, which meant that Cheery looked like a girl in her mum's dress, apart from the iron helmet, and Reg Shoe looked <em class="calibre9">like</em> a mummy, and Detritus was a small snowcovered mountain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's gone very… insensible in all this heat,” whispered Carrot. “And that's Constable Visit over there, arguing religion. There are six hundred and fifty-three religions on the Klatchian continent.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He must be having fun.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And this is Jabbar,” said Carrot. Exhibit A, who looked like a slightly older version of 71-hour Ahmed, stood up and salaamed to Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Offendi,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's their… well, he's like an official wise man,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, so he's not the one who tells them to charge?” said Vimes His head buzzed with the heat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, that's the leader,” said Carrot. “Whenever they have one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So perhaps Jabbar tells them when it's <em class="calibre9">wise</em> to charge?” said Vimes brightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's always wise to charge, offendi,” said Jabbar. He bowed again. “My tent is your tent,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My wives are your wives.,.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked panicky. “They are? Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My food is your food…” Jabbar went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared down at the dish by the fire. It looked like a sheep or a goat had been the main course. And the man bent down, picked up a morsel and handed it to him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam Vimes looked at the mouthful. And it looked back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The best part,” said Jabbar, and made appreciative suckling noises. He added something in Klatchian. There was some muffled laughter from the other men around the fire.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This looks like a sheep's eyeball,” said Vimes, doubtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir,” said Carrot. “But it is unwise to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know what?” Vimes went on. “I think this is a little game called ‘Let's see what offendi will swallow’. And I'm not swallowing this, my friend.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar gave him an appraising look.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sniggering stopped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then it is true that you can see further than most,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So can this food,” said Vimes. “My father told me never to eat anything that can wink back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was one of those little <em class="calibre9">hanging</em>–<em class="calibre9">by</em>–<em class="calibre9">a</em>–<em class="calibre9">thread</em> moments, which might suddenly rock one way or the other into a gale of laughter or sudden death.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Jabbar slapped Vimes on the back. The eyeball shot off his palm and into the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done! Extremely good! First time it have not worked in twenty year! Now sit down and have proper rice and sheep just like mother!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a certain feeling of relaxation. Vimes found himself pulled down. Bottoms shuffled aside to make room for him and a big slab of bread dripping with meat was put in front of him. Vimes prodded at it as politely as he dared, and then took the usual view that, if you can recognize at least half of it, it's probably OK to eat the rest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So we're your prisoners, Mr Jabbar?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Honoured guests! My tent is—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… how can I put this?… you want us to enjoy your hospitality for some time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have tradition,” said Jabbar. “A man who is a guest in your tent, even if he is your worst enemy, you owe him hospitality for tree dace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tree dace, eh?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I learn language on…” Jabbar waved a hand vaguely, “you know, wooden ting, a camel of the sea—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Boat?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! But too many water!” He slapped Vimes on the back again, so that hot fat spilled into his lap. “Any road up, lots speaking Morporkian these dace, offendi. It is language of… merchant.” He put an inflection on the word that suggested it was the same as “earthworm”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you have to know how to say things like ‘Give us all your money’?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why ask?” said Jabbar. “We take it anyway. But now…” he spat at the fire with amazing accuracy “… they say, we got to stop, this is wrong. What harm do we do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Apart from killing people and taking all their merchandise?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar laughed again. “<em class="calibre9">Wali</em> said you were a big diplomatic! But we don't kill merchants, why should we kill merchants? What is the sense? How foolish to be killing gift horse that lays the golden egg!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You could make money exhibiting it, certainly,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We kill merchants, we rob too much, they never come back. Dumb. We let them go, they get rich again, our sons rob them. Such is wisdom.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… it's a sort of agriculture,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! But if you plant merchants, they don't grow so good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes realized that it was getting colder as the sun went down. In fact, a lot colder. He inched closer to the fire.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why is he called 71-hour Ahmed?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The murmur of conversation stopped. Suddenly all eyes were on Jabbar, except the one that had ended up in the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Not</em> so diplomatic,” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We chase him up here, then suddenly we're ambushed by you. That seems—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know nothing,” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why won't you—?” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, sir,” said Carrot urgently. “That would be very unwise, sir. Look, I had a bit of a talk with Jabbar while you were… resting. It's a bit political, I'm afraid.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What isn't?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince Cadram is trying to unite the whole of Klatch, you see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dragging it kicking and screaming into the Century of the Fruitbat?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why, yes, sir, how did—?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just a lucky guess. Go on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But he has been having trouble,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What kind?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Us,” said Jabbar proudly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“None of the tribes like the idea, sir,” Carrot went on. “They've always fought among themselves, and now most of them are fighting him. Historically, sir, Klatch isn't so much an empire as an argument.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He say, you must be educated. You must be learning to pay taxes. We do not wish to be educated about taxes,” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you think you're fighting for your freedom?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar hesitated, and looked at Carrot. There was a brief exchange in Klatchian. Then Carrot said: “That's a rather difficult question for a D'reg, sir. You see, their word for ‘freedom’ is the same as their word for ‘fighting’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They certainly make their language do a lot of work, don't they…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was feeling better in the caller air. He took out a crushed and damp packet of cigars, pulled a coal out of the fire, and took a deep drag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… Prince Charming's got a lot of troubles at home, has he? Does Vetinari know this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Does a camel shit in the desert, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're really getting the hang of Klatch, aren't you?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar rumbled something. There was more laughter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… Jabbar says a camel certainly does shit in the desert, sir, otherwise you wouldn't have anything to light your cigar with, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again, there was one of those moments when Vimes felt that he was under close scrutiny. Be diplomatic, Vetinari had told him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He took another deep draw. “Improves the flavour,” he said. “Remind me to take some home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In Jabbar's eyes, the judges held up at least a couple of grudging eights.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A man on a horse came and said we must fight the foreign dogs—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's us, sir,” said Carrot helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—because you have stolen an island that is under the sea. But what is that to us? We know no harm of you foreign devils, but the men who oil their beards in Al-Khali we do not like. So we send him back.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All of him?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are not barbaric. He was clearly a madman. But we kept his horse.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And 71-hour Ahmed told you to keep us, didn't he?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one orders the D'regs! It is our pleasure to keep you here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And when will it be your pleasure to let us go? When Ahmed tells you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar stared at the fire. “I will not speak of him. He is devious and cunning and not to be trusted.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you are D'regs, too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes!” Jabbar slapped Vimes on the back again. “We know what we are talking about!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchian fishing boat was a mile or two out of harbour when it seemed to its captain that it was suddenly riding better in the water. Perhaps the barnacles have dropped off, he thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When his boat was lost in the evening mists a length of bent pipe rose slowly out of the swell and squeaked around until it faced the coast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A distant tinny voice said: “Oh no…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And another tinny voice said: “What's up, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take a look through this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“OK.” There was a pause.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then the second tinny voice said: “Oh, bugger…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What was riding at anchor before the city of Al-Khali wasn't a fleet. It was a fleet of fleets. The masts looked like a floating forest.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Down below, Lord Vetinari took his turn to peer through the pipe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So many ships,” he said. “In such a short time, too. How very well organized. Very well organized. One might almost say… <em class="calibre9">astonishingly</em> well organized. As they say, ‘If you would seek war, prepare for war.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe, my lord, the saying is ‘If you would seek peace, prepare for war,’” Leonard ventured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari put his head on one side and his lips moved as he repeated the phrase to himself. Finally he said, “No, no. I just don't see that one at all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ducked back into his seat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let us proceed with care,” he said. “We can go ashore under cover of darkness.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… can we maybe go ashore under cover of cover?” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact these extra ships will make our plan that much easier,” said the Patrician, ignoring him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our plan?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“People within the Klatchian hegemony come in every shape and colour.” Vetinari glanced at Nobby. “Practically every shape and colour,” he added. “So our appearance on the streets should not cause undue comment.” He glanced at Nobby again. “To any great extent.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we're wearing our uniforms, sir,” said Sergeant Colon. “It's not like we can say we're on our way to a fancy-dress party.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I'm not taking mine off,” said Nobby firmly. “I'm not running around in my drawers. Not in a port. Sailors are at sea a long time. You hear stories.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd be <em class="calibre9">worse</em>,” said the sergeant, without wasting time calculating how long any sailor would need to be at sea before the vision of Nobby Nobbs would present itself as anything other than a target, “'cos if we're not in uniform, we'll be spies – and you know what happens to spies.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you going to tell me, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, your lordship?” Sergeant Colon raised his voice. The Patrician looked up from a conversation with Leonard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do they do to spies in Klatch, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… let me see…” said Leonard. “Oh, yes… I believe they give you to the women.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby brightened up. “Oh well, that doesn't sound too bad—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, no, Nobby—” Colon began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—'cos I've seen the pictures in that book <em class="calibre9">The Perfumed Allotment</em> that Corporal Angua was reading, and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—no, <em class="calibre9">listen</em>, Nobby, you've got the wrong—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—I mean, blimey, I didn't know you could do that with a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—Nobby, <em class="calibre9">listen</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and then there's this bit where she—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Nobbs!” Colon yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon leaned forward and whispered in Nobby's ear. The corporal's expression changed, slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They really—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Yes</em>, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They <em class="calibre9">really</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They don't do that at home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We ain't at home, Nobby. I wish we was.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Although you hear stories about the Agony Aunts, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gentlemen,” said Lord Vetinari. “I am afraid Leonard is being rather fanciful. That may apply to some of the mountain tribes, but Klatch <em class="calibre9">is</em> an ancient civilization and that sort of thing is not done officially. I should imagine they'd give you a cigarette.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A cigarette?” said Fred.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant. And a nice sunny wall to stand in front of.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon examined this for any downside. “A nice roll-up and a wall to lean against?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think they prefer you to stand up straight, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fair enough. No need to be sloppy just because you're a prisoner. Oh, <em class="calibre9">well</em>. I don't mind risking it, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done,” said the Patrician calmly. “Tell me, sergeant… in your long military career, did anyone ever consider promoting you to an officer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I cannot think why.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Night poured over the desert. It came suddenly, in purple. In the clear air, the stars drilled down out of the sky, reminding any thoughtful watcher that it is in the deserts and high places that religions are generated. When men see nothing but bottomless infinity over their heads they have always had a driving and desperate urge to find someone to put in the way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Life emerged from the burrows and fissures. Soon, the desert was filled with the buzz and click and screech of creatures which, lacking mankind's superior brainpower, did not concern themselves with finding someone to blame and instead tried to find someone to eat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At around three in the morning Sam Vimes walked out of the tent for a smoke. The cold air hit him like a door. It was freezing. That wasn't what was supposed to happen in deserts, was it? Deserts were all hot sand and camels and… and… he struggled for a while, as a man whose geographical knowledge got severely cramped once you got off paved road… camels, yes, and dates. And possibly bananas and coconuts. But the temperature here made your breath tinkle in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He waved his cigar packet theatrically at a D'reg who was lounging near the tent. The man shrugged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The fire was just a heap of grey, but Vimes poked around in the vain hope of finding a glowing ember.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was amazed at how angry he was. Ahmed was the key, he knew it. And now they were stuck out here in the desert, the man had gone, and they were in the hands of… quiet, likeable people, fair enough. Brigands, maybe, the dry land equivalent of pirates, but Carrot would have said they were jolly good chaps for all that. If you were content to be their guest then they were as nice as pie, or sheep's eyeball and treacle or whatever you got out here—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something moved in the moonlight. A shadow slipped down the side of a dune.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something howled, out in the desert night.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Tiny hairs rose, all down Vimes's back, just like they had for his distant ancestors.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The night is always old. He'd walked too often down dark streets in the secret hours and felt the night stretching away, and known in his blood that while days and kings and empires come and go, the night is always the same age, always aeons deep. Terrors unfolded in the velvet shadows and while the nature of the talons may change, the nature of the beast does not.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood up quietly, and reached for his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd taken it away. They'd not even—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A fine night,” said a voice beside him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar was standing by his shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who is out there?” Vimes hissed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“An enemy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Teeth gleamed in the shadows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will find out, offendi.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why would they attack you now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Maybe they think we have something they want, offendi.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">More shadows slid across the desert.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And one rose up right behind Jabbar, reached down and picked him up. A huge grey hand dragged his sword out of his belt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What do you want me to do with him, Mr Vimes?” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Detritus</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The troll saluted with the hand that still held the D'reg.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All present and correct, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But—” And then Vimes realized. “It's freezing cold! Your brain's working again?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“With rather more efficiency, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this a djinn?” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know, but I could certainly do with one,” said Vimes. He finally managed to locate some matches in his pocket, and lit one. “Put him down, sergeant,” he said, puffing his cigar into life. “Jabbar, this is Sergeant Detritus. He could break every bone in your body, including some of the small ones in the fingers which are quite hard to do—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The darkness went <em class="calibre9">shwup</em> and something whispered past the back of his neck, just a slice of a second before Jabbar cannoned into him and bore him to the ground.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They shoot at the light!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mwwf?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes raised his head cautiously and spat out sand and fragments of tobacco.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Only Carrot could whisper like that. He associated whispering with concealment and untruth and compromised by whispering very loudly. To Vimes's horror the man came round the edge of a tent holding a tiny lamp.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Put that damn—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But he didn't have time to finish the sentence because, somewhere out in the night, a man screamed. It was a high-pitched scream and was suddenly cut off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah,” said Carrot, crouching down by Vimes and blowing out the lamp. “That was Angua.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That was nothing like– oh. Yeah, I think I see what you mean,” Vimes said, uneasily. “She's out there, is she?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard her earlier. She's probably enjoying herself. She doesn't really get much of a chance to let herself go in Ankh-Morpork.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no…” Vimes had a mental picture of a werewolf letting go. But surely, Angua wouldn't—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You two, uh… you're getting along OK, are you?” he said, trying to make out shapes in the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, fine, sir. Fine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">So her turning into a wolf occasionally doesn't worry you</em>? Vimes couldn't bring himself to say it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No… problems, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, not really, sir. She buys her own dog biscuits and she's got her own flap in the door. When it's full moon I don't really get involved.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were shouts in the night and then a shape erupted from the darkness, streaked past Vimes, and disappeared into a tent. It didn't wait for a door. It simply hit the cloth at full speed and continued until the tent collapsed around it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what is <em class="calibre9">that</em>?” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This may take some explaining,” said Vimes, picking himself up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot and Detritus were already hauling at the collapsed tent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are D'regs,” said Jabbar reproachfully. “We are supposed to fold tents silently in the night, not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was <em class="calibre9">enough</em> moonlight. Angua sat up and snatched a piece of tent out of Carrot's hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank <em class="calibre9">you</em>,” she said, wrapping it around her. “And before anyone says anything, I just bit him on the bum. Hard. And that was not the soft option, let me tell you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar looked back into the desert, and then down at the sand, and then at Angua. Vimes could see him thinking, and put a fraternal arm around his shoulders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd better explain—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a couple of hundred soldiers out there!” Angua snapped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—later.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're taking up positions all round you! And they don't look nice! Has anyone got any clothes that might fit? And some decent food? And a drink! There's no <em class="calibre9">water</em> in this place!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They will not dare attack before dawn,” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what will you do, sir?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At dawn we will charge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Uh. I wonder if I could suggest an alternative approach?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Alternative? It is <em class="calibre9">right</em> to charge! Charging is what dawn is <em class="calibre9">for</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot saluted Vimes. “I've been reading your book, sir. While you were… asleep. Tacticus's got quite a lot to say about how to deal with overwhelming odds, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says take every opportunity to turn them into underwhelming odds, sir. We could attack now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it's dark, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's just as dark for the enemy, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean it's pitch black! You wouldn't know who the hell you were fighting! Half the time you'd be shooting your own side!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">We</em> wouldn't, sir, because there'd only be a few of us. Sir? All we need to do is crawl out there, make a bit of noise, and then let them get on with it. Tacticus says all armies are the same size in the night, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There might be something in that,” said Angua. “They're crawling around in ones and twos, and they're dressed pretty much like—” She waved a hand at Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is Jabbar,” said Carrot. “He's sort of not the leader.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar grinned nervously. “It happens often in your country, where dogs turn into naked women?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sometimes days can go past and it doesn't happen at all,” Angua snapped. “I'd like some clothes, please. And a sword, if there's going to be fighting.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um, I think Klatchians have a very particular view about women fighting—” Carrot began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes!” said Jabbar. “We expect them to be good at it, Blue Eyes. We are D'regs!”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Boat surfaced in the scummy dead water under a jetty. The lid opened slowly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Smells like home,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't trust the water,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I don't trust the water at home, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Fred Colon managed to get a foothold on the greasy wood. It was, in theory, quite a heroic enterprise. He and Nobby Nobbs, the bold warriors, were venturing forth in hostile territory. Unfortunately, he knew they were doing it because Lord Vetinari was sitting in the Boat and would raise his eyebrows in no uncertain manner if they refused.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon had always thought that heroes had some special kind of clockwork that made them go out and die famously for god, country and apple pie, or whatever particular delicacy their mother made. It had never occurred to him that they might do it because they'd get yelled at if they didn't.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come on up, Nobby,” he said. “And remember we're doing this for the gods, Ankh-Morpork and—” It seemed to Colon that a foodstuff would indeed be somehow appropriate. “And my mum's famous knuckle sandwich!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Our mum never made us knuckle sandwiches,” said Nobby, as he hauled himself on to the planks. “But you'd be amazed at what she could do with a bit of cheese…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, all right, but that aint much of a battle cry, is it? ‘For the gods, Ankh-Morpork and amazing things Nobby's mum can do with cheese’? That'll strike fear in the hearts of the enemy!” said Sergeant Colon, as they crept forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, well, if <em class="calibre9">that's</em> what you're after, you want my mum's Distressed Pudding and custard,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Frightening, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They wouldn't want to know about it, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The docks of Al-Khali were like docks everywhere, because all docks everywhere are connected. Men have to put things on and off boats. There are only a limited number of ways to do this. So all docks look the same. Some are hotter, some are damper, there are always piles of vaguely forgotten-looking things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the distance there was the glow of the city, which seemed quite unaware of the enemy incursion.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Get us some clothes so that we'll blend in,’” muttered Colon. “That's all very well to say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nah, nah, that's <em class="calibre9">easy</em>,” said Nobby. “<em class="calibre9">Everyone</em> knows how to do <em class="calibre9">that</em> one. You lurk in an alley somewhere, right, and you wait until a couple of blokes come by and you lure them into the alley, see, and there's a couple of thumps, and then you come out wearing their clothes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That works, does it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never fails, sarge,” said Nobby confidently.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The desert looked like snow in the moonlight.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes found himself quite at ease with the Tacticus method of fighting. It was how coppers had always fought. A proper copper didn't line up with a lot of other coppers and rush at people. A copper lurked in the shadows, walked quietly and bided his time. In all honesty, of course, the time he bided until was the point when the criminal had already <em class="calibre9">committed</em> the crime and was carrying the loot. Otherwise, what was the point? You had to be realistic. “We got the man what done it” carries a lot more gravitas than “We got the man what looked as if he was going to do it,” especially when people say, “Prove it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Somewhere off to the left, in the distance, someone screamed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was a bit uneasy in this robe, though. It was like going into battle in a nightshirt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Because he wasn't at all certain he could kill a man who wasn't actively trying to kill <em class="calibre9">him</em>. Of course, <em class="calibre9">technically</em> any armed Klatchian these days was actively trying to kill him. That was what war was about. But—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He raised his head over the top of the dune. A Klatchian warrior was looking the other way. Vimes crept—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley-bingeley beep! This is your seven eh em alarm call, Insert Name Here! At least I hope—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Damn</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes reacted first and punched the man on the nose. Since there was no point in waiting to see what effect this would have, he threw himself forward and the two of them rolled down the other side of the freezing dune, struggling and punching.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but my real-time function seems erratic at the moment—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchian was smaller than Vimes. He was younger, too. But it was unfortunate for him that he appeared to be too young to have learned the repertoire of dirty fighting that spelled survival in Ankh-Morpork's back streets. Vimes, on the other hand, was prepared to hit anything <em class="calibre9">with</em> anything. The point was that the opponent shouldn't get up again. Everything else was decoration.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They slid to a halt at the bottom of the dune, with Vimes on top and the Klatchian groaning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Things To Do,” the Dis-organizer shrilled: “Ache.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And then… It was probably throat cutting time. Back home Vimes could have dragged him off to the cells, in the knowledge that everything would look better in the morning, but the desert had no such options.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">No, he couldn't do that. Thump the bloke senseless. That was the merciful way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vindaloo! Vindaloo!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's fist stayed raised.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's you, isn't it? Mr Vimes? Vindaloo!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pulled a fold of cloth away from the figure's face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you <em class="calibre9">Goriff's</em> boy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't want to be here, Mr Vimes!” The words came fast, desperate.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right, I'm not going to hurt you…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes lowered his fist and stood up, pulling the boy up after him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Talk later,” he muttered. “Come on!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! Everyone knows what the D'regs do to their captives!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well <em class="calibre9">I'm</em> their captive and they'll have to do it to both of us, OK? Keep away from the more amusing food and you'll probably be OK.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone whistled in the darkness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Come <em class="calibre9">on</em>, lad!” hissed Vimes. “No harm's going to come to you! Well… less than'd come if you stayed here. All right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">This time he didn't give the boy time to argue, but dragged him along. As he headed towards the D'regs' camp, other figures slid down the dunes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of them had an arm missing and had a sword sticking in him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How did you get on, Reg?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit odd, sir. After the first one chopped my arm off and stabbed me, the rest of them seemed to keep out of my way. Honestly, you'd think they'd never seen a man stabbed before.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you <em class="calibre9">find</em> your arm?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg waved something in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's another thing,” he said. “I hit a few of them with it and they ran off screaming.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's your type of unarmed combat,” said Vimes. “It probably takes some getting used to.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that a prisoner you've got there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In a way.” Vimes glanced around. “He seems to have fainted. I can't think why.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Reg leaned closer. “These foreigners are a bit weird,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Reg?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your ear's hanging off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is it? Wretched thing. You'd think a nail would work, wouldn't you?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon looked up at the stars. They looked down at him. At least Fred Colon had a choice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beside him, Corporal Nobbs gave a groan. But the attackers had left him his pants. There are some places where the boldest dare not go, and those areas of Nobby upwards of the knees and downwards of the stomach were among them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, Colon thought of them as attackers. Technically, he supposed they were defenders. Aggressive defenders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just run all that past me again, will you?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We find a couple of blokes about our height and weight—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We did that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We lure them into this alley—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We did that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I take a swing at them with a length of wood and hit you by accident in the dark and they get angry and turn out to be thieves and nick all our clothes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We weren't supposed to do that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well it worked <em class="calibre9">basically</em>,” said Nobby, managing to get to his knees. “We could give it another go.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby, you're in a port in a foreign city clad only in your, and I use this word with feeling, Nobby, your unmentionables. This is not the point to start talking about luring people into alleys. There could be talk.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Angua always says that nakedness is the national costume everywhere, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She was talking about herself, Nobby,” said Colon, sidling along in the shadows. “It's different for you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He peered around the other end of the alley. There was noise and chatter from the building that formed one of the walls. A couple of laden donkeys waited patiently outside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nip out and grab one of those packs, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why me, sarge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'cos you're the corporal and I'm the sergeant. And you've got more on than me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Grumbling under his breath, Nobby edged into the narrow street and unfastened a tether as fast as he could. The animal followed him obediently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon pulled at the pack.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If push comes to shove we can wear the sacks,” he said. “That'll– What's this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He held up something red.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Flowerpot?” said Nobby helpfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a fez! Some Klatchians wear 'em. Looks like we've struck lucky. Whoops, here's another one. Try it on, Nobby. And… looks like one of them nightshirts they wear… and here's another one of those, too. We're home and dry, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're a bit short, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Beggars can't be choosers,” said Colon, struggling into the costume. “Go on, put your fez on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It makes me look like a twit, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, I'll put mine on, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then we'll be fez to fez, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon gave him a severe look. “Did you have that one prepared, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sarge, I just made it up in my head right then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, look, no calling me sarge. That doesn't sound Klatchian.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nor does Nobby, sa– Sorry…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I dunno… you could be… Knobi or Nhobi… or Gnobbee… Sounds pretty Klatchian to me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's a good Klatchian name for you, then? I don't know hardly any,” said Nhobi.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon didn't answer. He was peering round the corner again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His lordship did say we was not to hang about,” Nobby murmured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but inside that tin can, well, it smells pretty <em class="calibre9">lived</em>–<em class="calibre9">in</em>, if you know what I mean. What I wouldn't give for—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a bellow behind them. They turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were three Klatchian soldiers. Or possibly watchmen. Nobby and Sergeant Colon didn't look much further than the swords.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The leader growled a question at them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did he say?” Nobby quavered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where you from?” said the leader, in Morporkian.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Oh… er…” Colon hesitated, waiting for shiny death.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah, yes.” The guard lowered his sword and jerked a thumb towards the docks. “You get back to your detachment now!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right!” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What your name?” one of the guards demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nhobi,” said Nobby. This seemed to pass.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you, fat one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon was panicking on the spot. He sought desperately for any name that sounded Klatchian, and there was only one that presented itself and which was absolutely and authentically Klatchian.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Al,” he said, his knees trembling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You get back right now or there will be trouble!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen ran for it, dragging the donkey behind them, and didn't stop until they were on the greasy jetty, which somehow felt like home.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was that all about, s– Al?” said Nobby. “All they wanted to do was push us around a bit! Typical Watch behaviour,” he added. “Not ours, of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose we had the right clothes on…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You didn't even tell them where we came from! And they spoke our language!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, they… I mean… <em class="calibre9">anyone</em> ought to be able to speak Morporkian,” said Colon, gradually regaining his mental balance. “Even babies learn it. I bet it comes easy after learning somethin' as complicated as Klatchian.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What're we going to do with the donkey, Al?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you think it can pedal?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I doubt it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then leave it up here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it'll get pinched, Al.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, these Klatchians'll pinch anything.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not like us, eh, Al?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked at the forest of masts filling), the bay.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Looks like even more of 'em from here,” he said. “You could walk from boat to boat for a mile. What're they all here for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't be daft, Nobby. It's obvious. They're to take everyone to Ankh-Morpork!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What for? We don't eat that much cur—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Invasion</em>, Nobby! There's a war on, remember?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked back at the ships. Riding lights gleamed on the water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The bit of it that was immediately below them bubbled for a moment, and then the hull of the Boat rose a few inches above the surface. The lid unscrewed and Leonard's worried face appeared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, there you are,” he said. “We were getting concerned…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They lowered themselves down into the fetid interior of the vessel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari was sitting with a pad of paper across his knees, writing carefully. He glanced up briefly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Report.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby fidgeted while Sergeant Colon delivered a more or less accurate account, although there was some witty repartee with the Klatchian guards that the corporal had not hitherto recalled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari did not look up. Still writing, he said, “Sergeant, Ur is an old country Rimward of the kingdom of Djelibeybi, whose occupants are a byword for bucolic stupidity. For some reason, I cannot think why, the guard must have assumed you were from there. And Morporkian is something of a lingua franca even in the Klatchian empire. When someone from Hersheba needs to trade with someone from Istanzia, they will undoubtedly haggle in Morporkian. This will serve us well, of course, The force that is being assembled here must mean that practically every man is a distant stranger with outlandish ways. Provided we do not act <em class="calibre9">too</em> foreign, we should pass muster. This means not asking for curry with swede and currants in it and refraining from ordering pints of Winkle's Old Peculiar, do I make myself clear?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… what is it we're going to <em class="calibre9">do</em>, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will reconnoitre initially.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right. Yes. Very important.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And then seek out the Klatchian high command. Thanks to Leonard I have a little… package to deliver. I hope it will end the war very quickly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon looked blank. At some point in the last few seconds the conversation had run away with him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sir… you said high command, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Like… the top brass, or turbans or whatever… all surrounded by crack troops, sir. That's where you always put the best troops, around the top brass.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect this will be the case, yes. In fact, I rather hope it is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon, once again, tried to keep up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Right. And we'll go and look for them, will we, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can hardly ask them to come to us, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, sir. I can see that, It could get a bit crowded.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At last, Lord Vetinari looked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there some problem, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Sergeant Colon once again knew a secret about bravery. It was arguably a kind of enhanced cowardice the knowledge that while death <em class="calibre9">may </em>await you if you advance it will be a picnic compared to the <em class="calibre9">certain</em> living hell that awaits should you retreat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… not as such, sir,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well.” Vetinari pushed his paperwork aside. “If there is more suitable clothing in your bag, I will get changed and we can take a look at Al-Khali.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, gods…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, good, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.” Vetinari began to pull other items out of the liberated sack. There was a set of jugglers clubs, a bag of coloured balls and finally a placard, such as might be placed to one side of the stage during an artiste's performance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Gulli, Gulli and Beti’,” he read. “‘Exotic tricks and dances’. Hmm,” he added. “It would seem there was a lady among the owners of this sack.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen looked at the gauzy material that came out of the sack next. Nobby's eyes bulged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are <em class="calibre9">them</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe they are called harem pants, corporal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're very—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Curiously, the purpose of the clothing of the nautch girl or exotic dancer has always been less to reveal and more to suggest the <em class="calibre9">imminence</em> of revelation,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked down at his costume, and then at Sergeant Al-Colon in his costume, and said cheerfully, “Well, I ain't sure it's going to suit you, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He regretted the words immediately.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hadn't intended that they should suit <em class="calibre9">me</em>,” said the Patrician calmly. “Please pass me your fez, Corporal Beti.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The subtle, deceiving dawn-before-dawn slid over the desert, and the commander of the Klatchian detachment wasn't happy about it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The D'regs always attacked at dawn. All of them. It didn't matter how many of them there were, or how many of you there were. Anyway, the whole tribe attacked. It wasn't just the women and children, but the camels, goats, sheep and chickens too. Of course you were expecting them and bows could cut them down, but… they always appeared suddenly, as if even the desert had spat them out. Get it wrong, be too slow, and you'd be hacked, kicked, butted, pecked and viciously spat at.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His troops lay in wait. Well, if you could call them troops. He'd <em class="calibre9">said</em> they were overstretched… well, he hadn't actually <em class="calibre9">said</em>, because that sort of thing could get you into trouble in this man's army, but he'd thought it very hard. Half of them were keen kids who thought that if you went into battle shouting and waving your sword in the air the enemy just ran away. They'd never faced a D'reg chicken coming in at eye height.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As for the rest of it… in the night people had run into one another, ambushed one another by mistake and were now as jittery as peas on a drum. A man had lost his sword and swore that someone had walked away with it stuck right through him. And some kind of rock had got up and walked around hitting people. With other people.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sun was well up now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the waiting that's the worst part,” said his sergeant, next to him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It <em class="calibre9">might</em> be the worst part,” said the commander. “Or, there again, the bit where they suddenly rise out of the desert and cut you in half might be the worst part.” He stared mournfully at the treacherously empty sand. “Or the bit where a maddened sheep tries to gnaw your nose off might be the worst part. In fact, when you think of all the things that can happen when you're surrounded by a horde of screaming D'regs, the bit where they aren't there at all is, I think you'll find, the <em class="calibre9">best</em> part.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sergeant wasn't trained for this sort of thing. So he said, “They're late.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good. Rather them than us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sun's right up now, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander looked at his shadow. It was full day, and the sand was mercifully free of his blood. The commander had been pacifying various recalcitrant parts of Klatch for long enough to wonder why, if he was pacifying people, he always seemed to be fighting them. Experience had taught him never to say things like “I don't like it, it's too quiet.” There was no such thing as too quiet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They might have decamped in the night, sir,” said the sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That doesn't sound like the D'regs. They never run away. Anyway, I can see their tents.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why don't we rush 'em, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You haven't fought D'regs before, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir. I've been pacifying the Mad Savatars in Uhistan, though, and they're—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The D'regs are worse, sergeant. They pacify right back at you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't say how mad the Savatars were, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Compared to the D'regs, they were merely slightly vexed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sergeant felt that his reputation was being impugned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How about I take a few men and investigate, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander glanced at the sun again. Already the air was too hot to breathe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, very <em class="calibre9">well</em>. Let's go.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchians advanced on the camp. There were the tents, and the ash of fires. But there were no camels and horses, merely a long scuffed trail leading off among the dunes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Morale began to rise a little. Attacking a dangerous enemy who isn't there is one of the more attractive forms of warfare, and there was a certain amount of assertion about how lucky the D'regs were to have run away in time, and some extemporizing on the subject of what the soldiers would have done to the D'regs if they'd caught them…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who's that?” said the sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure appeared between the dunes, riding on a camel. His white robes fluttered in the breeze.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He slid down when he reached the Klatchians, and waved at them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning, gentlemen! May I persuade you to surrender?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Captain Carrot, sir. If you would be kind enough to lay down your weapons no one will get hurt.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander looked up. Blobs were appearing along the tops of the dunes. They rose, and turned out to be heads.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're… D'regs, sir!” said the sergeant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. D'regs would be charging, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, sorry. Shall I tell them to charge?” said Carrot. “Is that what you'd prefer?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The D'regs were all along the dunes now. The climbing sun glittered off metal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you telling me,” the commander began slowly, “that you can persuade D'regs <em class="calibre9">not</em> to charge?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was tricky, but I think they've got the idea,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander considered his position. There were D'regs on either side. His troop were practically huddling together. And this red-headed, blue-eyed man was smiling at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do they feel about the merciful treatment of prisoners?” he ventured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think they could get the hang of it. If I insist.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander glanced at the silent D'regs again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why?” he said. “<em class="calibre9">Why</em> aren't they fighting us?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My commander says he doesn't want unnecessary loss of life, sir,” said Carrot. “That's Commander Vimes, sir. He's sitting on that dune up there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">You</em> can persuade armed D'regs not to charge and <em class="calibre9">you</em> have a commander?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. He says this is a police action.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The commander swallowed. “We give in,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, just like that, sir?” said his sergeant. “Without a fight?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Yes</em>, sergeant. Without a fight. This man can make water run uphill and <em class="calibre9">he</em> has a commander. I love the idea of giving in without a fight. I've fought for ten years and giving in without a fight is what I've always wanted to do.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Water dripped off the Boat's metal ceiling and blobbed on to the paper in front of Leonard of Quirm. He wiped it away. It might have been boring, waiting in a small metal can under a nondescript jetty, but Leonard had no concept of the term.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Absentmindedly, he jotted a brief sketch of an improved ventilation system.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He started to watch his own hand. Almost without his guidance, taking its instructions from somewhere else in his head, it drew a cutaway of a much larger version of the Boat. Here, here and here… there could be a bank of a hundred oars rather than pedals, each one manned – his pencil caressed the paper – by a well muscled and not overdressed young warrior. A boat that would pass unseen under other boats, take men wherever they needed to go. <em class="calibre9">Here</em> a giant saw, affixed to the roof, so that when rowed at speed it could cut the hulls of enemy ships. And <em class="calibre9">here</em> and <em class="calibre9">here</em> a tube…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped and stared at his drawing for a while. Then he sighed and started to tear it up.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched from the dune. He couldn't hear much from up here, but he didn't need to.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua sat down beside him. “It's working, isn't it?” she said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's he going to do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, he'll take their weapons and let 'em go, I suppose.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why do people follow him?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you're his girlfriend, you ought—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's different. I love him because he's kind without thinking about it. He doesn't watch his own thoughts like other people do. When he does good things it's because he's decided to do them, not because he's trying to measure up to something. He's so simple. Anyway, I'm a wolf living with people, and there's a name for wolves that live with people. If he whistled, I'd come running.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes tried not to show his embarrassment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua smiled. “Don't worry, Mr Vimes. You've said it yourself. Sooner or later, we're <em class="calibre9">all</em> someone's dog.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's like hypnotism,” said Vimes hurriedly. “people follow him to see what's going to happen next. They tell themselves that they're just going along with it for a while and can stop any time they want to, but they never want to. It's damn magic.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. Have you ever really watched him? I bet he'd found out everything about Jabbar by the time he'd talked to him for ten minutes. I bet he knows the name of every camel. And he'll remember it all. People don't take that much interest in other people, usually.” Her fingers idly traced a pattern in the sand. “So he makes you feel important.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Politicians do that—” Vimes began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not the way he does, believe me. I expect Lord Vetinari remembers facts about people—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you'd better believe <em class="calibre9">that</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but Carrot takes an <em class="calibre9">interest</em>. He doesn't even think about it. He makes space in his head for people. He takes an interest, and so people think they're interesting. They feel… better when he's around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced down. Her fingers were drawing aimlessly in the sand again. We're all changing in the desert, he thought. It's not like the city, hemming your thoughts in. You can feel your mind expand to the horizons. No wonder this is where religions start. And suddenly here I am, probably not legally, just trying to do my job. Why? Because I'm too damn stupid to stop and think before I give chase, that's why. Even Carrot knew better than to do that. I'd have just chased after Ahmed's ship without a thought, but he was bright enough to report back to me first. He did what a responsible officer ought to do, but me…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vetinari's terrier,” he said aloud. “Chase first, and think about it afterwards—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His eye caught the distant bulk of Gebra. Out there was a Klatchian army, and somewhere over <em class="calibre9">there</em> was the Ankh-Morpork army, and he was a handful of people and no plan because he'd chased first and—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But I had to,” he said. “Any copper wouldn't have let a suspect like Ahmed get—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again he had the feeling that the problem he was facing wasn't really a problem at all. It was something very obvious. <em class="calibre9">He</em> was the problem. He wasn't thinking right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Come to think of it, he hadn't really <em class="calibre9">thought</em> at all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He glanced down again at the trapped company. They had stripped down to their loincloths and were looking very sheepish, as men generally do in their underwear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's white robe still flapped in the breeze. He hasn't been here a day, thought Vimes, and already he's wearing the desert like a pair of sandals.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…er… bingeley-bingeley beep?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that your demon diary?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rolled his eyes. “Yes. Although it seems to be talking about someone else.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…er… three pee em,” the demon muttered slowly, “…day not filled in… Check Wall Defences…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See? It thinks I'm in Ankh-Morpork! It cost Sybil three hundred dollars and it can't even keep track of where I am.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He flicked his cigar butt away and stood up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd better get down there,” he said. “After all, I <em class="calibre9">am</em> the boss.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He slithered his way down the dune and strolled towards Carrot, who salaamed to him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A salute would do, captain, thanks all the same.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, sir. I think I got a bit carried away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why've you made them strip off?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Makes them a bit of a laughing stock when they return, sir. A blow to their pride.” He leaned closer and whispered, “I've let their commander keep his clothes on, though. It doesn't do to show up the officers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And some want to join us, sir. There's Goriffs lad and a few others. They were just dragooned into the army yesterday. They don't even know why they're fighting. So I said they could.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took the captain aside. “Er… I don't remember suggesting that any of the prisoners joined us,” he said quietly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, sir… I thought, what with our army approaching, and since quite a lot of these lads are from various corners of the empire and don't like the Klatchians any more than we do, I thought that a flying column of guerrilla fighters—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We aren't soldiers!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, I thought we <em class="calibre9">were</em> soldiers—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, all right. In a <em class="calibre9">way</em>… but really we're coppers, like we've always been. We don't kill people unless—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed? Everyone's slightly on edge when he's around, he worries people, he gets information from all over the place, he seems to go where he pleases, and he's always around when there's trouble– Damn damn <em class="calibre9">damn</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ran through the crowd until he reached Jabbar, who was watching Carrot with the usual puzzled smile that Carrot caused in innocent bystanders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tree dace,” said Vimes. “Three days. That's seventy-two hours!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, offendi?” said Jabbar. It was the voice of someone who recognized dawn, noon and sunset, and just let everything in between happen whenever it liked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So why's he called 71-hour Ahmed? What's so special about the extra hour?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar grinned nervously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did he <em class="calibre9">do</em> something after seventy-one hours?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar folded his arms. “I will not say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He told you to keep us here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But not to kill us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I would not kill my friend Sir Sam Mule—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And don't give me all that eyeball rubbish,” said Vimes. “He wanted time to get somewhere and do something, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will not say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't need to,” said Vimes. “Because we are <em class="calibre9">leaving</em>. And if you kill us… well, probably you can. But 71-hour Ahmed would not like that, I expect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar looked like a man making a difficult decision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He will be coming back!” he said. “Tomorrow! No problem!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not waiting! And I don't think he wants me killed, Jabbar. He wants me alive. Carrot?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot hurried over. “Yes, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was aware that Jabbar was staring at him in horror.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've lost Ahmed,” he said. “Even Angua can't pick up his trail with the sand blowing all over the place. We've got no place here. We're not <em class="calibre9">needed</em> here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we <em class="calibre9">are</em>, sir!” Carrot burst out. “We could help the desert tribes—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you want to stay and fight?” said Vimes. “Against the Klatchians?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Against the <em class="calibre9">bad</em> Klatchians, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, well, that's the trick, isn't it? When one of them comes screaming at you waving a sword, how do you spot his moral character? Well, you can stay if you like and fight for the good name of Ankh-Morpork. It should be a pretty short fight. But I'm off. Jenkins probably hasn't got afloat again. OK, Jabbar?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The D'reg was staring at the desert sand between his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know where he is now, don't you?” Vimes prompted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I swore to him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But D'regs are oath-breakers. Everyone knows that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar gave Vimes a grin. “Oh, <em class="calibre9">oaths</em>. Stupid things. I gave him my <em class="calibre9">word</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He won't break it, sir,” said Carrot. “D'regs are very particular about things like that. It's only when they swear on gods and things that they'll ever break an oath.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will not tell you where he is,” said Jabbar. “But…” he grinned again, but there was no humour in it, “how brave are you, Mr Vimes?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop <em class="calibre9">complaining</em>, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not complaining. I'm just sayin' these trousers are a bit draughty, that's all I'm saying.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They look good on you, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And what're these tin bowls supposed to be doing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're supposed to be protecting the bits you haven't got, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The way this breeze is blowing, I could do with some to protect the bits I <em class="calibre9">have</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just try and act ladylike, will you, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Which would be hard, Sergeant Colon had to admit. The lady for whom the clothes had been made had been quite tall and somewhat full-figured, whereas Nobby without his armour could have hidden behind a short stick if you attached a toast rack to it about two-thirds of the way up. He looked like a gauzy accordion with a lot of jewellery. In theory, the costume would have been quite revealing, if Corporal Nobbs was something you wished to see revealed, but there were so many billows and folds now that all one could reliably say was that he was in there somewhere. He was leading the donkey, which seemed to like him. Animals tended to like Nobby. He didn't smell wrong.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And them boots don't work,” Sergeant Colon went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not? You kept <em class="calibre9">yours</em> on.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but I'm not supposed to be a flower of the desert, right? A moon of someone's delight shouldn't kick up sparks when she walks, am I right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They belonged to my gran, I ain't leaving 'em around for anyone to nick, and I ain't mooning for anyone's delight,” said Nobby sulkily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari strode on ahead. The streets were already filling up. Al-Khali liked to get the business of the day started in the cool of dawn, before full day flamethrowered the landscape. No one paid the newcomers any attention, although a few people did turn round to watch Corporal Nobbs. Goats and chickens ambled out of the way as they passed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Watch out for people trying to sell you dirty postcards, Nobby,” said Colon. “My uncle was here once and he said some bloke tried to sell him a pack of dirty postcards for five dollars. Disgusted, he was.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, 'cos you can get 'em in the Shades for two dollars,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's what he said. <em class="calibre9">And</em> they were Ankh-Morpork ones. Trying to flog us our own dirty postcards? I call that disgusting, frankly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning, sultan!” said a cheerful and somehow familiar voice. “New in town, are we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">All three of them turned to a figure that had magically appeared from the mouth of an alleyway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed, yes,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I could see you were! Everyone is, these days. And it is <em class="calibre9">your</em> lucky day, shah! I am here to help, right? You want something, I got it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon had been staring at the newcomer. He said, in a faraway voice, “Your name's going to be something like… Al-jibla or something, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Heard about me, have you?” said the trader jovially.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sort of, yeah,” said Colon slowly. “You're amazingly… familiar.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari pushed him aside. “We are strolling entertainers,” he said. “We were hoping to get an engagement at the Prince's palace… Perhaps you could help?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man rubbed his beard thoughtfully, causing various particles to cascade into the little bowls in his tray.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dunno about the palace,” he said. “What's it you do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We practise juggling, fire-eating, that sort of thing,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do we?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Al-jibla nodded at Nobby. “What does…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…she…” said Lord Vetinari helpfully. </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…she do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Exotic dancing,” said Vetinari, while Nobby scowled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pretty exotic, I should think,” said Al-jibla.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd be amazed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A couple of armed men had drifted over to them. Sergeant Colon's heart sank. In those bearded faces he saw himself and Nobby, who at home would always saunter over to anything on the street that looked interesting.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are jugglers, are you?” said one of them. “Let's see you juggle, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari gave them a blank look and then glanced down at the tray around Al-jibla's neck. Among the more identifiable foodstuffs were a number of green melons.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very well,” he said, and picked up three of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon shut his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a few seconds he opened them again because a guard had said, “All right, but anyone can do it with three.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In that case perhaps Mr Al-jibla will throw me a few more?” said the Patrician, as the balls spun through his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon shut his eyes again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a short while a guard said, “Seven is pretty good. But it's just melons.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon opened his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchian guard twitched his robe aside. Half a dozen throwing knives glinted. And so did his teeth.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari nodded. To Colon's growing surprise he did not seem to be watching the tumbling melons at all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Four melons and three knives,” he said. “If you would care to give the knives to my charming assistant Beti…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Who</em>?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Why not seven knives, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Kind sirs, that would be too simple,” said Lord Vetinari.<a href="#_ftn13" title="13. Jugglers will tell you that juggling with items that are identical is always easier than a mixture of all shapes and sizes. This is even the case with chainsaws, although of course when the juggler misses the first chainsaw it is only the start of his problems. Some more will be along very shortly."><sup class="calibre10">13</sup></a> “I am but a humble tumbler. Please let me practice my art.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Beti</em>?” said Nobby, glowering under his veils.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Three fruits arced gently out of the green whirl and thumped on to Al-jibla's tray.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards looked carefully, and to Colon's mind nervously, at the cross-dressed figure of the cross corporal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“She's not going to do any kind of dance, is she?” one of them ventured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!” snapped Beti.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Promise?”<a href="#_ftn14" title="14. Corporal Nobbs's appearance could best be summarized this way."><sup class="calibre10">14</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby grabbed three of the knives and tugged them out of the man's belt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll give them to his lor– to him, shall I, Beti?” said Colon, suddenly quite sure that keeping the Patrician alive was almost certainly the only way to avoid a brief cigarette in the sunshine. He was also aware that other people were drifting over to watch the show.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To me, please… Al,” said the Patrician, nodding.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon tossed him the knives, slowly and gingerly. He's going to try to stab the guards, he thought. It's a <em class="calibre9">ruse</em>. And then everyone's going to tear us apart.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now the circling blur glinted in the sunlight. There was a murmur of approval from the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yet somehow dull,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And his hands moved in a complex pattern that suggested that his wrists must have moved through one another at least twice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tangled ball of hurtling fruit and cutlery leapt into the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Three melons dropped to the ground, cut cleanly in two.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Three knives thudded into the dust a few inches from their owner's sandals.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Sergeant Colon looked up and into a growing, greenish, expanding—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The melon exploded, and so did the audience, but both their laughter and the humour was slightly lost on Colon as he scraped over-ripe pith out of his ears.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The survival instinct cut in again. Stagger around backwards, it said. So he staggered around backwards, waving his legs in the air. Fall down heavily, it said. So he sat down, and almost squashed a chicken. Lose your dignity, it said; of all the things you've got, it's the one you can most afford to lose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari helped him up. “Our very lives depend on your appearing to be a stupid fat idiot,” he hissed, putting Colon's fez back on his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ain't very good at acting, sir—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician scooped up three melon halves and positively <em class="calibre9">skipped</em> over to a stall that a woman had just set up, snatching an egg from a basket as he went past. Sergeant Colon blinked again. This was not… <em class="calibre9">real</em>. The Patrician didn't do this sort of thing…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ladies and gentlemen! You see – an egg! And here we have a – melon rind! Egg, melon! Melon, egg! We put the melon over the egg!” His hands darted across the three halves, switching them at bewildering speed. “Round and round they go, just like that! Now… where's the egg? What about you, shah?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Al-jibla smirked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s the one on the left,” he said. “It always is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari lifted the melon. The board below was eggless.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you, noble guardsman?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s got to be the one in the middle,” said the guard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, of course… oh dear, it isn't…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd looked at the last melon. They were street people. They knew the score. When the object can be under one of three things, and it's already turned out not to be under two of them, then the one place it was certainly not going to be was under the third. Only some kind of gullible fool would believe something like that. Of <em class="calibre9">course</em> there was going to be a trick. There always <em class="calibre9">was</em> a trick. But you watched it, in order to see a trick done well.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari raised the melon nevertheless, and the crowd nodded in satisfaction. Of course it wasn't there. It'd be a pretty poor day for street entertainment if things were where they were supposed to be.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon knew what was going to happen next, and he knew this because for the last minute or so something had been pecking at his head.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Aware that this was probably his moment, he raised his fez and revealed a very small fluffy chick.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you got a towel? I am afraid it has just gone to the toilet on my head, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was laughter, some applause and, to his amazement, a tinkling of coins around his feet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And finally,” said the Patrician, “the beautiful Beti will do an exotic dance.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd fell silent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then someone at the back said, “How much do we have to pay for her not to?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! I've just about had enough of this!” Veils flying out behind her, bangles jingling, elbows waving viciously and boots kicking up sparks, the lovely Beti strode into the crowd. “Which of you said that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">People shrank away from her. <em class="calibre9">Armies</em> would have retreated. And there, revealed like a jellyfish deserted by a suddenly ebbing tide, was a small man about to fry in the wrath of the ascendant Nobbs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I meant no offence, oh doe-eyed one—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Pastry-faced, am I?” Nobby flung out an arm in a crash of bracelets and knocked the man over. “You've got a lot to learn about women, young man!” And then, because a Nobbs could never resist a prone target, the petite Beti drew back a steel-capped boot—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Beti!” snapped the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, right, yeah, <em class="calibre9">right</em>,” said Nobby, with veiled contempt. “Everyone can tell me what to do, right? Just because I happen to be the woman around here I'm just supposed to accept it all, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you just ain't supposed to kick him inna fork,” hissed Colon, pulling him away. “It don't look good.” Although he noted, the women in the crowd seemed to be disappointed by the sudden curtailment of the performance.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And there are many strange stories we can tell you!” shouted the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Beti certainly could,” murmured Colon, and was kicked sharply on his ankle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And many strange sights we can show you!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Beti cert– Aargh!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But for now we will seek the shade of yonder caravanserai…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">What're we doing</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">We're going to the pub</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd began to disperse, but with occasional amused glances back at the trio.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the guards nodded at Colon. “Nice show,” he said. “Especially the bit where your lady didn't remove any veils—” He darted behind his colleague as Nobby spun round like an avenging angel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sergeant,” the Patrician whispered. “It is very important that we learn the current whereabouts of Prince Cadram, do you understand? In taverns, people talk. Let us keep our ears open.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tavern wasn't Colon's idea of a pub. For one thing, most of it had no roof. Arched walls surrounded a courtyard. A grapevine grew out of a huge cracked urn and had been teased overhead on trellises. There was the gentle sound of tinkling water, and unlike the Mended Drum this was not because the bar backed on to the privies but because of a small fountain in the middle of the cobbles. And it was cool, much cooler than in the street, even though the vine leaves scarcely hid the sky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Didn't know you could juggle, sir,” Colon whispered to Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean you can't, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How strange. It's hardly a skill, is it? One knows what the objects are and where they want to go. After that it's just a case of letting them occupy the correct positions in time and space.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're dead good at it, sir. Practise often, do you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Until today, I've never tried.” Lord Vetinari looked at Colon's astonished expression. “After Ankh-Morpork, sergeant, a handful of flying melons present a very minor problem indeed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm amazed, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And in politics, sergeant, it is always important to know where the chicken is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon raised his fez. “Is this one still on my head?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems to have gone to sleep. I wouldn't disturb it, if I were you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ere, you, juggler… she can't come in here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They looked up. Someone with a face and apron that said “barman” in seven hundred languages was standing over them, a wine jug in each hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No women in here,” he went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No women asking questions, neither.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'cos it is written, that's why.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where'm I supposed to go, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The barman shrugged. “Who knows where women go?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Off you go, Beti,” said the Patrician. “And… listen for information!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby grabbed the cup of wine from Colon and gulped it down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I dunno,” he moaned, “I've only been a woman ten minutes and already I hate you male bastards.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I dunno what's got into him, sir,” whispered Colon as Nobby stamped out. “He ain't like this normally.. I thought Klatchian women did what they were told!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Does <em class="calibre9">your</em> wife do what she's told, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, yeah, obviously, a man's got to be the master in his own house, that's what I always say—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So why are you, I hear, always putting up kitchen furniture?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, obviously, you've got to listen to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact Klatchian history is full of famous examples of women who even went to war with their men,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? On the same side?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince Arkven's wife Tistam used to ride into the battle with her husband and, according to legend, killed ten thousand thousand men.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a lot of men.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Legends are prone to inflation. However, I believe there is good historical evidence that Queen Sowawondra of Sumtri had more than thirty thousand people put to death during her reign. She could be quite touchy, they say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You should hear my wife if I don't put the plates away,” said Sergeant Colon gloomily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now we are integrated with the local population, sergeant,” said the Patrician, “we must find out what is happening. Although an invasion is clearly planned, I feel sure Prince Cadram will have reserved some forces in case of land attack. It would be nice to know where they are, because that's where he will be.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You think you can handle this?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. I know Klatchians, sir. Don't you worry about that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here's some money. Buy drinks for people. Mingle.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not too many drinks, but as much mingling as you are capable of.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm a good mingler, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Off you go, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm a bit worried about… Beti, sir. Going off like that. Anything might happen to hi… her.” But he spoke with some hesitation. There wasn't much you could imagine happening to Corporal Nobbs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure we shall hear about it if there are any problems,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're right there, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon sidled over to a group of men who were sitting in a rough circle on the floor, talking quietly amongst themselves and eating from a large dish.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sat down. The men on either side of him obediently shuffled along.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now then, how did you… ah, right… anyone knew how Klatchians talked…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Greetings, fellow brothers of the dessert,” he said. “I don't know about you, but I could just do with a plate of sheep's eyeballs, eh? I bet you boys can't wait to be back on your camels, I know I can't. I spit upon the defiling dogs of Ankh-Morpork. Anyone had any baksheesh lately? You can call me Al.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, are you the lady who is with the clowns?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Corporal Nobbs, who had been trudging along gloomily, looked up. He was being addressed by a pleasant-faced young woman. A woman actually talking to him by choice was a novelty. Smiling while doing so was unheard of.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… yeah. Right. That's me.” He swallowed… “Beti.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My name is Bana. Would you like to come and talk with us?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked past her. There were a number of women of varying ages sitting around a large well. One of them waved at him shyly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He blinked. This was uncharted territory. He looked down at his clothes, which were already the worse for wear. His clothes always looked the worse for wear five minutes after he'd put them on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, don't worry,” said the girl. “We know how it is. But you looked so alone. And perhaps you can help us…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They were among the group now. There were women of every legitimate shape and size, and so far none of them had said “Yuk,” an experience hitherto unchronicled in Nobby's personal history. In a detached, light-headed way, Corporal Nobbs felt that he was entering Paradise, and it was only an unfortunate detail that he'd come to via the wrong door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We are trying to comfort Netal,” said the girl. “Her betrothed won't marry her tomorrow.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The swine,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the girls, eyes red with crying, looked up sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He <em class="calibre9">wanted</em> to,” she sobbed. “But he's been taken off to fight in Gebra! All over some island no one's heard of! And all my family are here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who took him off?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He took himself off,” snapped an older woman. Clothing differences aside, there was something hauntingly familiar about her, and Nobby realized that if you cut her in half the words “mother-in-law” would be all the way through.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, Mrs Atbar,” said Netal, “he said it was his duty. Anyway, all the boys have had to go.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Men!” said Nobby, rolling his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I expect you'd know a lot about the pleasures of men, then,” said Mother-in-Law sourly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mother!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who, me?” said Nobby, forgetting himself for a moment. “Oh, yeah. Lots.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre9">do</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not? Beer's favourite,” said Nobby. “But you can't beat a good cigar, as long as it's free.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah!” Mother-in-Law picked up a basket of washing and stamped away, followed by most of the older women. The others laughed. Even the disappointed Netal smiled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think <em class="calibre9">that's</em> not what she meant,” said Bana. To a chorus of giggles, she leaned down and whispered in Nobby's ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His expression did not change but it did seem to solidify.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">that</em>,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were some worlds of experience which Nobby had only contemplated on a map, but he knew what she was talking about. Of course he'd patrolled certain parts of the Shades in his time – the ones where young ladies tended to hang around without very much to do, and probably catching cold too – but those areas of police work that in other places might be of interest to a Vice Squad now tended to be looked after by the Guild of Seamstresses themselves. People who neglected to obey the… no, not the law as such, call them the <em class="calibre9">unwritten rules</em>… as laid down by Mrs Palm and her committee of very experienced ladies<a href="#_ftn15" title="15. And Mr Harris of the Blue Cat Club. His admission caused a lot of argument in the Guild, who knew competition when they saw it, but Mrs Palm overruled opposition on the basis, she said, that unnatural acts were only natural."><sup class="calibre10">15</sup></a> attracted the attention of the Agony Aunts, Dotsie and Sadie, and might or might not be seen again. Even Mr Vimes approved of the arrangement. It didn't cause paperwork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yeah,” said Nobby, still staring at some inner screen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Of course, he <em class="calibre9">knew</em> what…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">that</em>,” he mumbled. “Well, I've seen a thing or two,” he added. Largely on postcards, he had to admit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It must be wonderful to have so much freedom,” said Bana.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Netal burst out crying again. Her friends fluttered around her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't see why the men have to go off like this,” said Bana. “My betrothed has gone too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a cackle from a very old woman sitting by the well. “I can tell you why, dears. Because it's better than growing melons all day. It's better than women.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Men think war is better than women?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's always fresh, it's always young, and you can make a good fight last all day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they get killed!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Better to die in battle than in bed, they say” She cracked a toothless grin. “But there are good ways for a man to die in bed, eh, Beti?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby hoped the glow of his ears wasn't singeing his veil. Suddenly, he felt he'd caught up with his future. Ten damn pence worth of it hit him in the face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'scuse me,” he said. “Are any of you Nubilians?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are Nubilians?” said Bana.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a country round here,” said Nobby. He added hopefully, “Isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Not a single face suggested that this was so.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby sighed. His hand reached up to his ear for a cigarette end, but it came down again empty.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'll tell you this, girls,” he said. “I wish I'd settled for the tendollar version. Don't you just sometimes want to sit down and cry?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You look even sadder than Netal,” said Bana. “Isn't there some way we can cheer you up?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby stared at her for a moment, and then started to sob.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Everyone was staring at Colon, their food halfway to their lips.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Did I just hear him say that, Faifal? What do I want to be on a camel for? I'm a plumber!”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“He's the clown with the juggler. I think. The poor man is several palms short of an oasis.”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“I mean the bloody things spit and they're a bugger to get up the stairs with your toolbox—”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Now, come on it's not his fault, let's show a little charity.</em>” The speaker cleared his throat. “Good morning, friend,” he said. “May we invite you to share our couscous?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon peered at the bowl, and then dipped in a finger and tasted it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hey, this is semolina! You've got <em class="calibre9">semolina</em>! It's just ordinary semol—” He stopped, and coughed. “Yeah, right. Thanks. Got any strawberry jam?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The host looked at his friends. They shrugged.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We know not of this ‘strawbe<em class="calibre9">rr</em>y <em class="calibre9">h</em>jam’ of which you speak,” he said carefully, “We prefer it with lamb.” He offered Colon a long wooden skewer.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you gotta have strawberry jam,” said Colon, carried away. “When we were kids we'd stir it in and… and…” He looked at their faces, “O' course, that was back in Ur,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The men nodded at one another. Suddenly it was all clear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon belched loudly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">From the looks he got from everyone else, he was the only one who'd heard of this common Klatchian custom.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” he said, “where's the army these days? Approximately?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why do you ask, o full-of-gas one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, we thought we could make a bit of cash entertaining the troops,” said Colon. He was immensely proud of this idea. “You know… a smile, a song, a lack of exotic dancing. But that means we got to know where they are, see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Excuse me, fat one, but can you understand what I am saying?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it's very tasty,” Colon hazarded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Ah. I thought so. So he's a spy. But whose?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Really? Who would be so stupid as to use a joke like this as a spy?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Ankh-Morpork?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Oh, come on! He's pretending to be an Anhk-Morpork spy, perhaps. But they're cunning over there—”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“You think? A people who make curry out of something called curry powder and you think they're clever?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“I reckon he's from Muntab. They're always watching us.”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“And pretending to be from Ankh-Morpork?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Well, if you were trying to look like a joke Morporkian pretending to be Klatchian wouldn't you look like that?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“But why'd he pretend to be from there?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Ah… politics.”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Let's call the watch, then.”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Are you mad? We've been talking to him! They will be… inquisitive.”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Good point. I know…”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">Faifal gave Colon a big grin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I did hear the entire army has marched away to <em class="calibre9">En al Sams la Laisa</em>,” he said. “But don't tell anyone.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have they?” Colon glanced at the other men. They were watching him with curiously deadpan expressions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sounds like a massive place, with a name like that,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, huge,” said his neighbour. One of the other men made a noise that you might think was a suppressed chuckle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a long way, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, very close. You're practically on top of it,” said Faifal. He nudged a colleague, whose shoulders were shaking.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">right</em>. Big army, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could easily be very big, yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine. Fine,” said Colon. “Er… anyone got a pencil? I could've sworn I had one when—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a noise outside the tavern. It was the sound of many women laughing, which is always a disquieting noise to men.<a href="#_ftn16" title="16. Usually because they suspect the joke's on them."><sup class="calibre10">16</sup></a> Customers peered suspiciously through the vines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon and the rest of the crowd looked around an urn at the group by the well. An old lady was rolling on the ground, laughing, and various younger ones were leaning against one another for support.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He heard one of them say, “What did he say again?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He said, ‘That's funny, it's never done that when <em class="calibre9">I've</em> tried it!’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, <em class="calibre9">that's</em> true!” cackled the old woman. “It never does!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘That's funny, it's never done that when I've tried it’,” Nobby repeated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon groaned. That was the voice and tone of Corporal Nobbs in storytelling mode, when wood could scorch at ten yards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'scuse me,” he muttered, and forced his way through the press to the gateway.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you heard the one about the ki… the sultan who was afraid his wife… one of his wives… would be unfaithful to him while he was away?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We haven't heard <em class="calibre9">any</em> stories like <em class="calibre9">these</em>, Beti!” Bana gasped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Oh, I've got a thousand and one of 'em. Well, anyway, he went and saw the wise old blacksmith, right, and <em class="calibre9">he</em> said—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't go round telling stories like that, cor– Beti,” Colon panted as he lumbered to a halt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby realized that a change had come over the group. Now he was surrounded by women who were in the presence of a man. A known man, he corrected himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Several of them were blushing. They hadn't blushed before.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why not?” said Beti nastily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll offend people,” said Colon uncertainly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, we are not offended, sir,” said Bana, in a small humble voice. “We think Beti's stories are very… instructive. Especially the one about the man who went into the tavern with the very small musician.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that was pretty hard to translate,” said Nobby, “because they don't really know what a piano is in Klatch. But it turns out there's this kind of stringed—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it was very interesting about the man with his arms and legs in plaster,” said Netal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, and they laughed even though they don't have the same kind of doorbells here,” said Nobby. “Here, you don't have to go—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But the group around the well was dispersing. Water jugs were being picked up and carried away. A kind of preoccupied busyness came over the women.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Bana nodded at Beti. “Er… thank you. It's been very… interesting. But we must go. It was so kind of you to talk to us.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er, no, don't go…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A faint suggestion of perfume hung in the air.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beti glared at Colon. “Sometimes I really want to give you a right ding alongside the lughole,” she growled. “My first bloody chance in years and you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She stopped. There was a crowd of puzzled yet disapproving faces behind Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And things might have ended otherwise had it not been for the braying of the donkey, from above.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The stolen donkey, easily pulling away from Nobby's inexpert tether, had wandered off in search of food. She vaguely associated this with the doorway to her stable and therefore with doorways in general, and so had wandered through the nearest open one.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There had been some narrow spiral stairs inside, but her stall was pretty narrow and steps didn't worry a donkey that was used to the streets of Al-Khali.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was only a disappointment when the steps came to an end and there was <em class="calibre9">still</em> no hay.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh no,” said someone behind Colon. “There's a donkey up the minaret <em class="calibre9">again</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were groans all round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's wrong with that? What goes up must come down,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You don't know?” said one of his dining companions. “You don't have <em class="calibre9">minarets</em> in Tar?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er—” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We have plenty of donkeys,” said Lord Vetinari. There was general laughter, most of it directed at Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the men pointed to the dim interior of the minaret.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look… see?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A very narrow, winding staircase,” said the Patrician. “So…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's nowhere to turn at the top, right? Oh, any fool can get a donkey <em class="calibre9">up</em> a minaret. But have you ever tried getting an animal to go backwards down a narrow staircase in the dark? Can't be done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's something about a rising staircase,” said someone else. “It attracts donkeys. They think there's something at the top.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We had to push the last one off, didn't we?” said one of the guards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. It splashed,” said his comrade in arms.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one is pushing Valerie off'f <em class="calibre9">anything</em>,” snarled Beti. “Any one of you tries anything like that and, s'welp me, you'll feel the wrong end of—” He stopped, and a wide horrible grin appeared behind the veil. “I mean, I'll give you a great big soppy <em class="calibre9">kiss</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Several men at the back of the crowd took to their heels.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's no need to get nasty,” said the guard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">mean</em> it!” said Beti, advancing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The cowering guard cringed. “Can't you do anything with her, sirs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Us?” said Lord Vetinari. “'fraid not. Oh dear… it's going to be like that business in Djelibeybi all over again, Al.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh dear,” said Colon, mugging loyally. The crowd, or at least that part that thought itself sufficiently far away from Beti, started to grin. This was street theatre.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know if they ever got that man down off the flagpole,” Vetinari went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">most</em> of 'im, they did,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Tell you what, tell you what,” said the guard hurriedly, “suppose we get a rope round it—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—her—” Beti growled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Her, right, and then—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd need at least three men up there and there ain't no room!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir, I've got an idea,” whispered one of the guards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I should make it quick,” said Colon. “'cos there's no stopping Beti once she gets going.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards held a whispered argument.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“We'd get into trouble if we do that! You know all that stuff we were told about the war effort! That's why they were all confiscated!”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“No one will miss it for five minutes!”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Yeah, but you want to tell the prince we lost one?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“All right, but do you want to explain to her?”</em>
      </div>
      <div class="paragraph">They both looked at Beti. <em class="calibre9">“And they're easy to steer, after all,”</em> one whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Valerie?” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There is a problem?” Beti demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! No. It's a fine name for a donkey, N– Beti.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No one is to do anything,” said one of the guards. “We will return.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was all that about?” said Colon, watching them go.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, they've probably gone to get a carpet,” said someone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very nice, but I don't see how that'd help,” said Bets.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A flying one.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">right</em>,” said Colon. “They've got one of those up at the University—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ur has a university?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, indeed,” said the Patrician. “How do you think Al learned what a donkey looks like?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again, laughter dispelled doubt. Colon grinned uncertainly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm really getting good at this stupid idiot stuff, aren't I?” he said. “It just sort of happens!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Marvellous,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was another angry braying from far above.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Trouble is, they're all locked up because of the war effort,” said someone behind them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A piece of mud brick shattered on the ground nearby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The way it's thrashing around up there, it's going to fall off anyway.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps I should <em class="calibre9">persuade</em> her to come down,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't be done, offendi. You can't get past on the stairs, you can't turn it round, and it won't come down backwards.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall consider the situation,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He ambled back into the tavern for a moment, and returned. They saw him enter the door and they heard him climbing the staircase.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Should be good,” said a man behind Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while the braying stopped.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can't turn round, see. Far too narrow,” said the elevated-donkey expert. “Can't turn round, won't go backwards. Well-known fact.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's always a know-all, right, Beti?” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah. Always.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tower was full of silence. Several members of the crowd found their attention drawn to it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I mean, if you could get three or four men up the stairs, which you can't, you could sort of move it a leg at a time, if you didn't mind being kicked and bitten to death…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right, back away from the tower, will you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards were back. One of them was carrying a rolled-up carpet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, all right, give us room—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can hear hooves,” said someone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yeah, like our friend in the fez is getting the donkey down the stairs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hang on, I can hear them too,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now all eyes stared at the door.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari emerged, holding a length of rope.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The voice behind Colon said, “All right, it's just a bit of rope. He was probably banging a couple of coconut shells together.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean, ones that he found in the minaret?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He had them with him, obviously.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean, he carries coconut shells around?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't <em class="calibre9">turn</em> a donkey round in– all right, that's a fake donkey head…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's moving its ears!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On a string, on a string – all right, it's a donkey, OK, but it's not the <em class="calibre9">same</em> donkey. It's one he had in a hidden pocket… well, no need to look at me like that. I've seen them do it with doves…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then even the unbeliever fell silent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Donkey, minaret,” said Lord Vetinari. “Minaret, donkey.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Just like that?” said a guard. “How did you do it? It was a trick, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course it was a trick,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">knew</em> it was just a trick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right, it was just a trick,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… how did you do it, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean you can't spot it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd craned to see.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… you had an inflatable donkey—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can you think of any reason why I should go around with an inflatable donkey?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One that you wouldn't mind explaining to your own dear mother?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If you're going to put it like that—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s easy,” said Al-jibla. “There's a secret compartment in the minaret. Must be.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you've got it all wrong, it's just an <em class="calibre9">illusion</em> of a donkey… Well, all right, it's a <em class="calibre9">good</em> illusion…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">By now half the people were around the donkey and the others were clustered in the doorway of the minaret, looking for secret panels.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think, Al and Beti, this is where we walk away,” said Lord Vetinari, behind Colon. “Just down this little alley here. And when we turn that corner, we run.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What've we got to run for?” said Beti.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Because I've just picked up the magic carpet.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was already lost. Oh, there was the sun, but that was just a <em class="calibre9">direction</em>. He could feel it on the side of his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And the camel rocked from side to side. There was no real way of judging distance, except by haemorrhoids.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I'm blindfolded on the back of a camel ridden by a D'reg, who everyone says are the most untrustworthy people in the world. But I'm almost positive he's not going to kill me.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” he said, as he rocked gently from side to side, “you may as well tell me. Why 71-hour Ahmed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He killed a man,” said Jabbar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And D'regs object to a little thing like that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In the man's own tent! When he had been his guest for nearly tree dace! If he had but waited an hour—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I <em class="calibre9">see</em>. Definitely bad manners. Had the man done anything to deserve it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing! Although…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The man <em class="calibre9">had</em> killed El-Ysa.” The D'reg's tone suggested that this wasn't much of a mitigating circumstance, but that it ought to be mentioned out of completeness.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who was she?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“El-Ysa was a village. He poisoned a well. There had been a dispute over religion,” he added. “One thing led to another… but even so, to break the tradition of hospitality…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I can see that's a terrible thing. Almost… impolite.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The hour was important. Some things should not be done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're right there, at least.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">By mid-afternoon Jabbar let him take off the blindfold. Wind-carved heaps of black rock stood out of the sand. Vimes thought it was the most desolate place he'd ever seen.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say once it was green,” said Jabbar. “A well watered land.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happened?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The wind changed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At sunset they reached a wadi between more windscoured rocks, and it was only the length of the shadows, deepening the shallow indentations, that began to give them back an ancient shape.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're buildings, aren't they?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There was a city here, a long time ago. Did you not know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why should I know?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your people built it. It was called Tacticum. After a warrior of yours.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked at the crumbled walls and fallen pillars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He had a city named after him…” he said to noone in particular.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar nudged him. “Ahmed is watching you,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can't see him anywhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. Get down. And I hope we meet again in whatever is your paradise.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right, right…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jabbar turned the camel round. It left much faster than it had arrived.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat on a rock for a while. There was no sound but the hissing of the wind in the rocks and the cry of some bird, far away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He thought he could hear his own heart beating.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bingeley… bingeley… beep…” The Disorganizer sounded worried and uncertain.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Yes? Appointment with 71-hour Ahmed, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… no…” said the demon. “Er… Klatchian fleet sighted… er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ships of the desert, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… beep… error code 746, divergent temporal instability…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shook the box. “Something wrong with you?” he demanded. “You're still giving me someone else's appointments, you idiot box!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… the appointments are correct for Commander Samuel Vimes…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Which one of you?” said the demon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…beep…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It refused to say more. Vimes considered throwing it away, but Sybil would be hurt if she found out. He thrust it back into his pocket and tried to concentrate on the scenery again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His seat might have been part of a pillar once. Vimes saw other pieces some way away, and then realized that a heap of apparent rubble was a fallen wall. He followed this, his footsteps echoing off the cliffs, and realized that he was walking between old buildings, or where buildings had been. Here was the wreck of some stairs, there the stump of a pillar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One was a little higher than the others. He pulled himself up and found, on its flat top, two huge feet. A statue must have stood here. It probably stood, if Vimes knew anything about statues, in some kind of noble attitude. Now it had gone, and there were just feet, broken off at the ankles. They weren't exceptionally noble.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he lowered himself again he saw, protected because this side was out of the wind, some lettering carved deeply into the plinth. He tried to make it out in the fading light:</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“AB HOC POSSUM VIDERE DOMUM TUUM”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Well… “domum tuum” was “your house”, wasn't it? …and “videre” was “I see”…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” he said aloud. “‘I can see your house from up here?’ What kind of a noble sentiment is that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I believe it was meant to be a boast and a threat, Sir Samuel,” said 71-hour Ahmed. “Somewhat typical of Ankh-Morpork, I've always thought.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood very still. The voice had been right behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And it <em class="calibre9">was</em> Ahmed's voice. But it lacked that hint of camel spit and gravel that it had possessed in Ankh-Morpork. Now it was the drawl of a gentleman.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the echoes here,” Ahmed went on. “I <em class="calibre9">could</em> be anywhere. I could have a crossbow aimed at you right <em class="calibre9">now</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You won't fire it, though. We've both got too much at stake.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there is honour among thieves, is there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't know,” said Vimes. Oh, well… time to see if he was dead right or just dead. “Is there honour among policemen?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon's eyes went big.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Swing my weight to one side?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's how magic carpets are steered,” said Lord Vetinari calmly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but supposing I swing myself off?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll have a lot more room,” said Beti unfeelingly. “C'mon, sarge, you know how to throw your weight around.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ain't throwing my weight <em class="calibre9">anywhere</em>,” said Colon firmly. He was lying full length on the carpet, both hands gripping it as hard as possible. “It's not natural, just a bit of broadloom between you and certain splash.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician looked down. “We're not over water, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what I meant, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can we slow down a bit?” said Beti. “The breeze is invading my privacy, if you get my drift.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari sighed. “We're not going very fast as it is. I suspect this is a very old carpet.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's a frayed bit here,” said Beti.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Look, I can poke my finger right through—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Notice how it kind of wobbles when you move?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Shut up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Here, look, those palm trees down there look really small.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nobby, you're scared of heights,” said Colon. “I <em class="calibre9">know</em> you're scared of heights.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's sexual stereotyping!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, it's not!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it is! You'll be expecting me to break my ankle a lot and scream all the time next! It's my job to prove to you that a woman can be as good as a man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Practically identical in your case, Nobby. You've caught too much sun, that's what it is. You are not female, Nobby!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Beti sniffed. “That's just the sort of sexist remark I'd expect from you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you're not!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's the principle of the thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, at least we now have transport,” said Lord Vetinari, his tone suggesting that the show was over. “Unfortunately, I had no time to find out where the army is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah! I can help you there, sir!” Colon tried to salute, and then made a grab for the carpet again. “I found out by cunning, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir! It's at a place called… er… En al Sams la Laisa, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The carpet drifted onwards for a moment, in silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘The Place where the Sun Shineth Not’?” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more silence. Colon was trying not to look at anyone.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there a somewhere called Gebra?” said Nobby, sulkily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Be– corporal. There is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They've gone there. Of course, you've only got a woman's word for it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, corporal. We shall head up the coast.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari relaxed. In a busy and complex life he'd never met people quite like Nobby and Colon. They talked all the time yet there was something almost… <em class="calibre9">restful</em> about them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched the dusty horizon carefully as the ancient carpet curved around. Under his arm was the metal cylinder Leonard had made for him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Drastic times required drastic measures.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?” said Colon, his voice muffled by the carpet.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've got to know… How <em class="calibre9">did</em> you… you know… get the donkey down?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Persuasion, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? Just talking?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sergeant. Persuasion. And, admittedly, a sharp stick.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah! I <em class="calibre9">knew</em>–”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The trick of getting donkeys down from minarets,” said the Patrician, as the desert unwound below them, “is always to find that part of the donkey which seriously wishes to get down.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The wind had settled. The bird up on the cliffs had shut down for the night. All Vimes could hear was the sizzle of the little desert creatures.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then Ahmed's voice said: “I am genuinely impressed, Sir Samuel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes took a deep breath. “You know, you really fooled me,” he said. “‘May your loins be full of fruit.’ That was a good one. I really thought you were just—” He stopped. But Ahmed continued:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—just another camel-driver with a towel on his head? Oh, dear. And you'd been doing so well up to now, Sir Samuel. The Prince was very impressed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, come <em class="calibre9">on</em>. You were all but making suggestive comments about melons. What was I supposed to think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't fret, Sir Samuel. I consider it all a compliment. You can turn round. I wouldn't dream of harming you unless you do something… foolish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes turned. He could just make out a shape in the afterglow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You were admiring this place,” said Ahmed. “Tacticus's men had it built when he tried to conquer Klatch. It's not really a city by today's standards, of course. It was really just making a point. ‘Here we are and here we stay,’ as it were. And then the wind changed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You murdered Snowy Slopes, didn't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The term is executed. I can show you the confession he signed beforehand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of his own free will?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“More or less.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let us say, I pointed out to him the alternatives to signing the confession. I was kind enough to leave you the pad. After all, I wanted to keep your interest. And don't look like that, Sir Samuel. I need you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How can you tell how I look?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can guess. The Assassins' Guild had a contract on him in any case. And by a happy chance I <em class="calibre9">am</em> Guild member.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">You</em>?” Vimes tried to bite down on the word. And then: why <em class="calibre9">not</em> him? Kids got sent a thousand miles to be taught in the Assassins' Guild school…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. The best years of my life, they tell me. I was in Viper House. Up School! Up School! Right Up School!” He sighed like a prince and spat like a camel driver. “If I shut my eyes I can still recall the taste of that peculiar custard we used to get on Mondays. Dear me, how it all comes back… I remember every soggy street. Does Mr Dibbler still sell his horrible sausages inna bun in Treacle Mine Road?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Still the same old Dibbler, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Still the same sausages.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Once tasted, never forgotten.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“True.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, don't move too quickly, Sir Samuel. Otherwise I'm afraid I shall be cutting your own throat. You don't trust me, and I don't trust you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why did you drag me here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Drag you? I had to sabotage my own ship so you wouldn't lose me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but… you… knew how I'd react.” Vimes's heart began to sink. <em class="calibre9">Everyone</em> knew how Sam Vimes would react…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Would you like a cigarette, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you sucked those damn cloves.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In Ankh-Morpork, yes. Always be a little bit foreign wherever you are, because everyone knows foreigners are a little bit stupid. Besides, these are rather good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fresh from the desert?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hah! Yes, <em class="calibre9">everyone</em> knows Klatchian cigarettes are made from camel dung.” A match flared, and for a moment Vimes caught a glimpse of the hooked nose as Ahmed lit the cigarette for him. “That is one area where, I regret to say, prejudice has some evidence on its side. No, these are all the way from Sumtri. An island where, it is said, the women have no souls. Personally, I doubt it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes could make out a hand, holding the packet. Just for a moment he wondered if he could grab and—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How is your luck?” said Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Running out, I suspect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. A man should know the length of his luck. Shall I tell you how I know you are a good man, Sir Samuel?” In the light of the rising moon Vimes saw Ahmed produce a cigarette holder, insert one, and light up almost fastidiously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do tell.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“After the attempt on the Prince's life I suspected <em class="calibre9">everyone</em>. But you suspected only your own people. You couldn't bring yourself to think the Klatchians might have done it. Because that'd line you up with the likes of Sergeant Colon and all the rest of the Klatchian-fags-are-made-of-camel-dung brigade.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whose policeman are you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I draw my pay, let us say, as the <em class="calibre9">wali</em> of Prince Cadram.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shouldn't think he's very happy with you right now, then. You were supposed to be guarding his brother, weren't you?” So was I, Vimes thought. But what the hell…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. And we thought the same way, Sir Samuel. You thought it was your people, I thought it was mine. The difference is, I was right. Khufurah's death was plotted in Klatch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, really? That's what they <em class="calibre9">wanted</em> the Watch to think—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">No</em>, Sir Samuel. The important thing is what someone wanted <em class="calibre9">you</em> to think.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, you've got that wrong. All the stuff with the glass and the sand on the floor, I saw through… that… straight… away…” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">His voice faded into silence.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while Ahmed said, almost sympathetically, “Yes, you did.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damn.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, in some ways you were right. Ossie <em class="calibre9">was</em> paid in dollars, originally. And then, later on, someone broke in, making sure they dumped <em class="calibre9">most</em> of the glass outside, and swapped the money. And distributed the sand. I must say that I thought the sand was going a bit too far, too. No one would be <em class="calibre9">that</em> stupid. But they wanted to make sure it looked like a bungled attempt.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Who was it</em>?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, a small-time thief. Bob-Bob Hardyoyo. He didn't even know why he was doing it, except that someone was willing to pay him. I commend your city, commander. For enough money, you can find someone to do <em class="calibre9">anything</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Someone</em> must have paid him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A man he met in a pub.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded glumly. It was amazing how many people were prepared to do business with a man they'd met in a pub.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can believe that,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You see, if even the redoubtable Commander Vimes, who is known even to some senior Klatchian politicians as an unbendingly honest and thorough man, if somewhat lacking in intelligence… if even <em class="calibre9">he</em> protested that it was done by his own people – well, the world is watching. The world would soon find out. Starting a war over a rock? Well… that sort of thing makes countries uneasy. They've all got rocks off their coast. But starting a war because some foreign dog had killed a man on a mission of peace… that, I think, the world would understand.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lacking in intelligence?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, don't be too depressed, commander. That business with the fire at the embassy. That was sheer bravery.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It was bloody terror!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, the dividing line is narrow. That was one thing I hadn't expected.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In the rolling, clicking snooker table of Vimes's mind the black ball hit a pocket.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre9">had</em> expected the <em class="calibre9">fire</em>, then?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The building should have been almost empty—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes moved. Ahmed was lifted off his feet and slammed against a pillar, with both of Vimes's hands around his neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That woman was trapped in there!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It… was… necessary!” said Ahmed hoarsely. “There… had… to be a… diversion! His… life was… in danger, I had to get him out! I did… not know… about the… woman until too late… I give you my word…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Through the red veil of anger Vimes became aware of a prickle in the region of his stomach. He glanced down at the knife that had appeared magically in the other man's hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Listen to me…” hissed Ahmed. “Prince Cadram ordered his brother's death… What better way to demonstrate the… perfidy of the sausage-eaters… killing a peace-maker…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“His own brother? You expect me to believe <em class="calibre9">that</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Messages were sent to… the embassy in code…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To the old ambassador? I don't believe that!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed stood quite still for a moment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, you really don't, do you?” he said. “Be generous, Sir Samuel. <em class="calibre9">Truly</em> treat all men equally. Allow Klatchians the right to be scheming bastards, hmm? In fact the ambassador is just a pompous idiot. Ankh-Morpork has no monopoly on them. But his deputy sees the messages first. He is… a young man of ambition…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes relaxed his grip. “Him? I <em class="calibre9">thought</em> he was shifty as soon as I saw him!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suspect that you thought he was Klatchian as soon as you saw him, but I take your point.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you could read this code, could you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, come now. Don't you read Vetinari's paperwork upside down when you're standing in front of his desk? Besides, I am Prince Cadram's policeman…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So he's your boss, right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who is <em class="calibre9">your</em> boss, Sir Samuel? When push comes to shove?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two men stood locked together. Ahmed's breath wheezed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stood back. “These messages… you've got them?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. With his seal on them.” Ahmed rubbed his neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good grief. The originals? I'd have thought they'd be under lock and key.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They were. In the embassy. But in the fire many hands were needed to carry important documents to safety. It was a very… <em class="calibre9">useful</em> fire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A death warrant for his own brother… well, you can't argue against that in court…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What court? The king is the law.” Ahmed sat down. “We are not like you. You kill kings.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The word is ‘execute’. And we only did it once, and that was a long time ago,” said Vimes. “Is <em class="calibre9">that</em> why you brought me here? Why all this drama? You could have come to see me in Ankh-Morpork!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are a suspicious man, commander. Would you have believed me? Besides, I had to get Prince Khufurah out of there, before he, ahah, ‘died of his wounds’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where's the Prince now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Close. And safe. He is safer in the desert than he would ever be in Ankh-Morpork, I can assure you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And well?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Getting better. He is being looked after by an old lady whom I trust.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your mother?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ye gods, no! My mother is a D'reg! She'd be terribly offended if I trusted her. She'd say she hadn't brought me up right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He saw Vimes's expression this time. “You think I am an educated barbarian?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's just say I'd have given Snowy Slopes a running start.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Look around you, Sir Samuel. Your… beat… is a city you can walk across in half an hour. Mine is two million square miles of desert and mountain. My companions are a sword and a camel and, frankly, neither are good conversationalists, believe me. Oh, the towns and cities have their guards, of a sort. They are uncomplicated thinkers. But it is my job to go into the waste places and chase bandits and murderers, five hundred miles from anyone who would be on my side, so I must inspire dread and strike the first blow because I will not have a chance to strike a second one. I am an honest man of a sort, I think. I survive. I survived seven years in an Ankh-Morpork public school patronized by the sons of gentlemen. Compared to that, life among the D'regs holds no terrors, I assure you. And I administer justice swiftly and inexpensively.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard about how you got your name…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed shrugged. “The man had poisoned the water. The only well for twenty miles. That killed five men, seven women, thirteen children and thirty-one camels. And some of them were very valuable camels, mark you. I had evidence from the man who sold him the poison and a trustworthy witness who had seen him near the well on the fateful night. Once I had testimony from his servant, why wait even an hour?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sometimes we have trials,” said Vimes brightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Your Lord Vetinari decides. Well, five hundred miles from anywhere the law is me.” Ahmed waved a hand. “Oh, no doubt the man would suggest there were mitigating circumstances, that he had an unhappy childhood or was driven by Compulsive Well-Poisoning Disorder. But I have a compulsion to behead cowardly murderers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave up. The man had a point. The man had a whole sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Different strokes for different folks,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I find the one at shoulder height generally suffices,” said Ahmed. “Don't grimace, it was a joke. I knew the Prince was plotting and I thought: this is not right. Had he killed some Ankh-Morpork lord, that would just be politics. But this… I thought, why do I chase stupid people into the mountains when I am part of a big crime? The Prince wants to unite the whole of Klatch. Personally, I like the little tribes and countries, even their little wars. But I don't mind if they fight Ankh-Morpork because they want to, or because of your horrible personal habits, or your unthinking arrogance… there's a lot of reasons for fighting Ankh-Morpork. A lie isn't one of them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what you mean,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But what can I do alone? Arrest my Prince? I am his policeman, as you are Vetinari's.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. I'm an officer of the law.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All I know is, there must be a policeman, even for kings.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked pensively at the moonlit desert.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Somewhere out there was the Ankh-Morpork army, what there was of it. And somewhere waiting was the Klatchian army. And thousands of men who might have quite liked one another had they met socially would thunder towards one another and start killing, and after that first rush you had all the excuses you needed to do it again and again…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He remembered listening, when he was a kid, to old men in his street talking about war. There hadn't been many wars in his time. The city states of the Sto Plains mainly tried to bankrupt one another, or the Assassins' Guild sorted everything out on a one-to-one basis. Most of the time people just bickered, and while that was pretty annoying it was a lot better than having a sword stuck in your liver.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What he remembered most, among the descriptions of puddles filled with blood and the flying limbs, was the time one old man said, “An' if your foot caught in something, it was always best not to look and see what it was, if'n you wanted to hold on to your dinner.” He'd never explained what he meant. The other old men seemed to know. Anyway, nothing could have been worse than the explanations Vimes thought of for himself. And he remembered that the three old men who spent most of their days sitting on a bench in the sun had, between them, five arms, five eyes, four and a half legs and two and three-quarter faces. And seventeen ears (Crazy Winston would bring out his collection for a good boy who looked suitably frightened).</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He <em class="calibre9">wants</em> to start a war…” Vimes had to open his mouth because otherwise there was no room to get his head around such a crazy idea. This man who everyone said was honest, noble and good wanted a war.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, certainly,” said Ahmed. “Nothing unites people like a good war.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">How could you deal with someone who thought like that? Vimes asked himself. A mere murderer, well, you had a whole range of options. He could deal with a mere murderer. You had criminals and you had policemen, and there was a sort of see-saw there which balanced out in some strange way. But if you took a man who'd sit down and <em class="calibre9">decide</em> to start a war, what in the name of seven hells could you balance him with? You'd need a policeman the size of a country.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You couldn't blame the soldiers. They'd just joined up to be pointed in the right direction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Something clicked against the fallen pillar. Vimes glanced down and pulled the baton out of his pocket. It glinted in the moonlight</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What damn good was something like this? All it really meant was that he was allowed to chase the little criminals, who did the little crimes. There was nothing he could do about the crimes that were so big you couldn't even see them. You <em class="calibre9">lived</em> in them. So… safer to stick to the little crimes, Sam Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“ALL RIGHT, MY SONS! LET 'EM HAVE IT RIGHT UP THE JOGRAPHY!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Figures bounded over the fallen pillars.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a metallic whirr as Ahmed unsheathed his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes saw a halberd coming towards him – an Ankh-Morpork halberd! – and street reaction took over. He didn't waste time sneering at someone stupid enough to use a pike on a foot soldier. He dodged the blade, caught the shaft, and pulled it so hard that its owner stumbled right into his upswinging boot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he jerked away, struggling to untangle his sword from the unfamiliar robes. He ducked another shadowy figure's wild slice and managed to make an elbow connect with something painful.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he rose he looked into the face of a man with an upraised sword—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">–there was a silken sound—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">–and the man swayed backwards, his head looking surprised as it fell away from the body.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes dragged his headdress off.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm from Ankh-Morpork, you stupid sods!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A huge figure rose in front of him, a sword in each hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'LL CUT YER TONKER OFF'F YER YER GREASY—Oh, is that you, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Huh? Willikins?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed, sir.” The butler straightened up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Willikins</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do excuse me one moment, sir KNOCK IT OFF YOU MOTHERLOVIN SONS OF BITCHES I had no apprehension of your presence, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This one's fightin' back, sarge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed had his back to a pillar. A man already lay at his feet. Three others were trying to get close enough to the <em class="calibre9">wali</em> while staying away from the whirling wall he was creating with his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ahmed! These are on our side!” Vimes yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, really? Pardon <em class="calibre9">me</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed lowered his sword and removed the cigarette holder from his mouth. He nodded at one of the soldiers who had been trying to attack him and said, “Good morning to you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ere, are you one of ours, too?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, I'm one of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's with me,” Vimes snapped. “How come you're here, Willikins? <em class="calibre9">Sergeant</em> Willikins, I see.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We were on patrol, sir, and were attacked by some Klatchian gentlemen. After the ensuing unpleasantness—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—you should've seen 'im, sir. 'e bit one bastard's nose right orf!” a soldier supplied.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is true that I endeavoured to uphold the good name of Ankh-Morpork, sir. Anyway, after we—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and one bloke, sarge, stabbed 'im right in the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Please, Private Bourke, I am apprising Sir Samuel of events,” said Willikins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sarge ort to get a medal, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Those few of us who survived tried to get back, sir, but we had to conceal ourselves from other patrols and were just considering lying up until dawn in this edifice when we espied you and this gentleman here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed was watching him with his mouth open.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How many were in this Klatchian patrol, sergeant?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nineteen men, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a very precise count, in this light.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was able to enumerate them subsequently, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean they were all killed?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir,” said Willikins calmly. “However, we ourselves lost five men, sir. Not including Privates Hobbley and Webb, sir, who regrettably seem to have passed away as a result of this unfortunate misunderstanding. With your permission, sir, I will remove them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Poor devils,” said Vimes, aware that it was not enough but that nothing else would be, either.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The fortunes of war, sir. Private Hobbley, Ginger to his friends, was nineteen and lived in Ettercap Street, where until recently he made bootlaces.” Willikins took the dead man's arms and pulled. “He was courting a young lady called Grace, a picture of whom he was kind enough to show me last night. A maid at Lady Venturi's, I was given to understand. If you would be good enough to pass me his head, sir, I will get on with things SMUDGER WHO TOLD YOU TO SIT DOWN GET ON YORE FEET RIGHT NOW GET OUT YORE SHOVEL TAKE OFF YORE HELMET SHOW SOME RESPECT GET DIGGINGHA!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A cloud of smoke rolled past Vimes's ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what you are thinking,” said Ahmed. “But this <em class="calibre9">is</em> war, Sir Samuel. Wake up and smell the blood.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… one minute they're alive—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your friend here knows how it works. You don't.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a butler!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So? It's kill or be killed, even for butlers. You're not a natural warrior, Sir Samuel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thrust the baton in his face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not a natural <em class="calibre9">killer</em>! See this? See what it says? I'm supposed to keep the peace, I am! If I kill people to do it, I'm reading the wrong manual!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Willikins appeared silently, hefting the other corpse. “I was not privileged to know much about this young man,” he said, as he carried him behind a rock. “We called him Spider, sir,” he went on, straightening up. “He played the harmonica rather badly and spoke longingly of home. Will you be taking tea, sir? Private Smith is having a brew-up. Er…” The butler coughed politely.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, Willikins?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I hardly like to broach the subject, sir…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Broach it, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you have such a thing as a biscuit about you, sir? I hesitate to provide tea without biscuits, but we have not eaten for two days.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But you were on patrol!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Forage party, sir.” Willikins looked embarrassed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was bewildered. “You mean Rust didn't even wait to take on food?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes, sir. But as it transpired—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We knew there was somethin' wrong when the mutton barrels started to explode,” muttered Private Bourke. “The biscuits was pretty lively too. Turned out bloody Rust'd bought a lot of stuff even a rag'ead wouldn't eat—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we eat <em class="calibre9">anything</em>,” said 71-hour Ahmed solemnly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“PRIVATE BOURKE YOU ORRIBLE MAN SPEAKIN OF YORE COMMANDIN OFFICER LIKE THAT YOU WILL BE ON A CHARGE I apologize, sir, but we are feeling a little faint.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Long time between noses, eh?” said 71-hour Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ahahaha, sir,” said Willikins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sighed. “Willikins… when you've finished, I want you and your men to come with me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very good, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded at Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you too,” he said. “Push has come to shove.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The hot wind flapped the banners. The sunlight sparkled off the spears. Lord Rust surveyed his army and found that it was good. But small.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He leaned towards his adjutant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let us not forget, though, that even General Tacticus was outnumbered ten to one when he took the Pass of Al-Ibi,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Although I believe his men were all mounted on elephants, sir,” said Lieutenant Hornett. “And had been well provisioned,” he added meaningfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Possibly, possibly. But then Lord Pinwoe's cavalry once charged the full might of the Pseudopolitan army and are renowned in song and story.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But they were all killed, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, yes, but it was a famous charge, nevertheless. And every child knows, do they not, the story of the mere one hundred Ephebians who defeated the entire Tsortean army? A total victory, hey? Hey?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir,” said the adjutant glumly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, you admit it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. Of course, some commentators believe the earthquake helped.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“At least you will admit that the Seven Heroes of Hergen beat the Big-Footed People although outnumbered by a hundred to one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. That was a nursery story, sir. It never really happened.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you calling my nurse a liar, boy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir,” said Lieutenant Hornett hurriedly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you'll concede that Baron Mimbledrone <em class="calibre9">single-handedly</em> beat the armies of the Plum Pudding Country and ate their Sultana?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I envy him, sir.” The lieutenant looked at the lines again. The men were very hungry, although Rust would probably have called them sleek. Things would have been even worse if it hadn't been for the fortuitous shower of boiled lobsters on the way over. “Er… you don't think, sir, since we have a little time in hand, we should look to the disposition of the men, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They look well disposed to me. Plucky men, eager to be at the fray!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. I meant… more… well… positioned, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nothing wrong with 'em, man. Beautifully lined up! Hey? A wall of steel poised to thrust at the black heart of the Klatchian aggressor!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sir. But – and I realize this is a <em class="calibre9">remote</em> chance, sir – it might be that while we're thrusting at the heart of the Klatchian aggressor—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—black heart—” Rust corrected him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—black heart of the Klatchian aggressor, sir, the arms of the Klatchian aggressor, those companies <em class="calibre9">there</em> and <em class="calibre9">there</em>, sir, will sweep around in the classic pincer movement.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The thrusting wall of steel served us magnificently in the second war with Quirm!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We lost that one, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But it was a damn close-run thing!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We still lost, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What did you do as a civilian, lieutenant?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was a surveyor, sir, and I can read Klatchian. That's why you made me an officer.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you don't know how to fight?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only how to count, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Pah! Show a little courage, man. Although I'll wager you won't need to. No stomach for a battle, Johnny Klatchian. Once he tastes our steel, he'll be off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I certainly hear what you say, sir,” said the adjutant, who had been surveying the Klatchian lines and had formed his own opinion about the matter.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His opinion was this: the main force of the Klatchian army had, in recent years, been fighting everyone. That suggested, to his uncomplicated mind, that by now the surviving soldiers were the ones who were in the habit of being alive at the end of battles. And were also very experienced at facing all kinds of enemies. The stupid ones were dead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The current Ankh-Morpork army, on the other hand, had never faced an enemy at all, although day-to-day experience of living in the city might count for something there, at least in the rougher areas. He believed, along with General Tacticus, that courage, bravery and the indomitable human spirit were fine things which nevertheless tended to take second place to the <em class="calibre9">combination</em> of courage, bravery, the indomitable human spirit <em class="calibre9">and</em> a six-to-one superiority of numbers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It had all sounded straightforward in Ankh-Morpork, he thought. We were going to sail into Klatch and be in Al-Khali by teatime, drinking sherbet with pliant young women in the Rhoxi. The Klatchians would take one look at our weapons and run away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Well, the Klatchians had taken a good look this morning. So far they hadn't run. They appeared to be sniggering a lot.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rolled his eyes. It worked… but <em class="calibre9">how</em> did it work?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd heard plenty of good speakers, and Captain Carrot was not among them. He hesitated, lost the thread, repeated himself and in general made a mess of the whole thing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And yet…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And yet…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched the faces that were watching Carrot. There were the D'regs, and some of the Klatchians who had stayed behind, and Willikins and his reduced company. They were listening.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was a kind of magic. He told people they were good chaps, and they knew they weren't good chaps, but the way he told it made them believe it for a while. Here was someone who thought you were a noble and worthy person, and somehow it would be unthinkable to disappoint them. It was a mirror of a speech, reflecting back to you what you wanted to hear. And he meant it all.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Even so, men occasionally glanced up at Vimes and Ahmed and he could see them thinking, in their separate ways, “It must be all right if they're in on it.” That, he was ashamed to realize, was one of the advantages of armies. People looked to other people for orders.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This is a trick?” said Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. He doesn't know any tricks like that,” said Angua. “He really doesn't. Uh-oh…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a scuffle in the ranks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot strode forward and reached down, bringing up Private Bourke and a D'reg, each man held by the collar in one big fist.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's going on, you two?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He called me the brother of a pig, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Liar! You called me a greasy dishcloth-head!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot shook his head. “And you were both doing so well, too,” he said sadly. “There really is no call for this. Now I want you, Hashel, and <em class="calibre9">you</em>, Vincent, to shake hands, right? And apologize, yes? We've all had a rather trying time, but I know you're both fine fellows underneath it all—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes heard Ahmed murmur, “Oh, well, <em class="calibre9">now</em> it's all over…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—so if you'll just shake hands we'd say no more about it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes glanced at 71-hour Ahmed. The man was wearing a sort of waxen grin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The two scufflers very gingerly touched hands, as if they were expecting a spark to leap the gap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now you, Vincent, apologize to Mr Hashel…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a reluctant “'ry”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we're sorry for what?” Carrot prompted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…sorry for calling him a greasy dishcloth-head…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well said. And <em class="calibre9">you</em>, Hashel, apologize to Private Bourke.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The D'reg's eyes scurried around their sockets, looking to find a way out that would allow their body to come too. Then he gave up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ry…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'ry for calling him a brother of a pig…” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot lowered both men.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good! I'm sure you'll get along splendidly once you get to know each other—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't just see that, did I?” said Ahmed. “I didn't just see him talk like a little schoolteacher to Hashel who, I happen to know, once hit a man so hard his nose ended up in one of his ears?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, you did,” said Angua. “And now watch them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">When the rest of the men turned their attention back to Carrot the scufflers looked at one another, as unfortunates who had both been through the same baptism of fiery embarrassment.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Private Bourke gingerly offered Hashel a cigarette.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It only works around him,” said Angua. “But it <em class="calibre9">does</em> work.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Let it go on working, Vimes prayed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot walked over to a kneeling camel and climbed into the saddle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's ‘Evil Brother-in-Law of a Jackal’,” said Ahmed. “Jabbar's camel! It bites everyone who ride it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but this is Carrot.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It even bites Jabbar!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you notice how he knew how to get on a camel?” said Vimes. “How he wears the robes? He's <em class="calibre9">fitting in</em>. The boy was raised in a dwarf mine. It took him about a month to know my own damn city better than I do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The camel rose. Now the flag, Vimes thought, give him the flag. When you go to war, there's got to be a flag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">On cue, Constable Shoe passed up the spear with the tightly rolled cloth around it. The constable looked proud. He'd stitched the thing in conditions of great secrecy half an hour before. One thing about a zombie, you always knew someone who had a needle and thread.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But don't unfurl it, Vimes thought. Don't let them see it. It's enough for them to know they're marching under a flag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot brandished the spear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I promise you this,” he shouted, “if we succeed, noone will remember. And if we fail, no one will forget!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Probably one of the worst rallying cries, Vimes thought, since General Pidley's famous “Let's all get our throats cut, boys!” but it got a huge cheer. And once again he speculated that there was magic going on at some bone-deep level. People followed Carrot out of curiosity.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, you've got an army, I suppose,” said Ahmed. “And now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm a policeman. So are you. There's going to be a crime. Saddle up, Ahmed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed salaamed. “I am happy to be led by a white officer, offendi.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't mean—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you ever ridden a camel before, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah?” Ahmed smiled faintly. “Then just give it a prod to get started. And when you want to stop, hit it very hard with the stick and shout ‘Huthuthut!’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You hit it with a stick to make it stop?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is there any other way?” said 71-hour Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">His camel looked at Vimes, and then spat in his eye.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Prince Cadram and his generals surveyed the distant enemy, from horseback. The various Klatchian armies were drawn up in front of Gebra. Compared to them, the Ankh-Morpork regiments looked like a group of tourists who had missed their coach.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is that <em class="calibre9">all</em>?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, sire,” said General Ashal. “But, you see, they believe that fortune favours the brave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That is a reason to field such a contemptible little army?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, sire, but they believe that we will turn and run as soon as we taste some cold steel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince looked back at the distant banners. “Why?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I couldn't say, sire. It appears to be an item of faith.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Strange.” The Prince nodded to one of his bodyguards. “Fetch me some cold steel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After some hurried discussion a sword was handed up very gingerly, handle first. The prince peered at it, and then licked it with theatrical care. The watching soldiers laughed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No,” he said at last. “No, I have to say that I don't feel the least apprehensive. Is this as cold as steel gets?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Rust was probably being metaphorical, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. He is the sort who would be. Well, let us go forward and meet him. We must be civilized, after all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He urged his horse forward. The generals fell in behind him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The prince leaned down towards General Ashal again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And why are we going out to meet him before battle commences?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a… it's a goodwill gesture, sire. Warriors honouring one another.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But the man's a complete incompetent!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we're about to set thousands of our countrymen against one another, aren't we?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Indeed, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So what does the maniac want to do? Tell me there's no hard feelings?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Broadly speaking, sire… yes. I understand the motto of his old school was ‘It matters not that you won or lost, but that you took part.’”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince's lips moved as he tried this out once or twice. Finally he said: “And, knowing this, people still take orders from him?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It would seem so, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Prince Cadram shook his head. We can learn from Ankh-Morpork, his father had said. Sometimes we can learn what not to do. And so he'd set out to learn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">First he'd learned that Ankh-Morpork had once ruled quite a slice of Klatch. He'd visited the ruins of one of its colonies. And so he'd found out the name of the man who had been audacious enough to do this, and had got agents in Ankh-Morpork to find out as much about him as possible.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">General Tactitus, he'd been called. And Prince Cadram had read a lot and remembered everything, and “tactics” had been very, very useful in the widening of the empire. Of course, this had its own drawbacks. You had a border, and across the border came bandits. So you sent a force to quell the bandits, and in order to stamp them out you had to take over their country, and soon you had another restless little vassal state to rule. And now <em class="calibre9">that</em> had a border, over which came, sure as sunrise, a fresh lot of raiders. So your new <em class="calibre9">tax</em>–<em class="calibre9">paying</em> subjects were demanding protection from their brother raiders, neglecting to pay their taxes, and doing a little light banditry on the side. And so once again you stretched your forces, whether you wanted to or not…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He sighed. For the serious empire-builder there was no such thing as a final frontier. There was only another problem. If only people would understand…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nor was there such a thing as a game of war. General Tacticus knew that. Learn about your opposite number, <em class="calibre9">yes</em>, and respect his abilities if he had them, certainly. But never pretend that afterwards you were going to meet up for a drink and charge-by-charge replay.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He could well be insane, sire,” the general went on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“However, I'm told that he recently referred to Klatchians as the finest soldiers in the world, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He added ‘when led by white officers’, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And we are offering him breakfast, sire. It would be most impolite of him to refuse.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">What</em> a good idea. Have we got an adequate supply of sheeps' eyes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I took the liberty of telling the cooks to save some up for this very eventuality, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then we must see he gets them. After all, he will be our honoured guest. Well, let us do this thing properly. Please try to look as if you hate the taste of cold steel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Klatchians had set up an open-sided tent on the sand between the two armies. In the welcome shade a low table had been laid. Lord Rust and his company were already waiting, and had been for more than half an hour.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They stood up and bowed awkwardly as Prince Cadram entered. Around the tent the Klatchian and Ankh-Morpork honour guards eyed one another suspiciously, every man trying to get the drop on the others.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">
        <em class="calibre9">“Tell me… Do any of you gentlemen speak Klatchian?”</em> said Prince Cadram, after the lengthy introductions.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust's grin stayed fixed. “Hornett?” he hissed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not quite certain what he said, sir,” said the lieutenant nervously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought you knew Klatchian!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can read it, sir. That's not the same…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, don't worry,” said the Prince. “As we say in Klatch, <em class="calibre9">this clown's in charge of an army?</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Around the tent, the Klatchian generals suddenly went poker-faced.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hornett?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… something about… to own, to control… er…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Cadram smiled at Lord Rust. “I'm not entirely familiar with this custom,” he said. “You often meet your enemies before battle?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is considered honourable,” said Lord Rust. “I believe that on the night before the famous Battle of Pseudopolis officers from both sides attended a ball at Lady Selachii's, for example.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince glanced questioningly at General Ashal, who nodded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Obviously we have so much to learn. As the poet Mosheda says, <em class="calibre9">I can't believe this man.</em>”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, yes,” said Lord Rust. “Klatchian is a very poetic language.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excuse me, sir.” said Lieutenant Hornett.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is it, man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's… er… something going on…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a column of dust in the distance. Something was approaching fast.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One moment,” said General Ashal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He came back from his saddle with an ornate metal tube, covered in the curly Klatchian script. He squinted into one end and pointed the other at the cloud.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mounted men,” he said. “Camels <em class="calibre9">and</em> horses.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a Make-Things-Bigger device, isn't it?” said Lord Rust. “My word, you are up to date. They were invented only last year.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I didn't buy this, my lord. I inherited it from my grandfather—” The general looked through the eyepiece again. “About forty men, I'd say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dear me,” murmured Prince Cadram. “Reinforcements, Lord Rust?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They've… the rider in the lead is holding a… a banner, I think, still rolled up—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly not, sire!” said Lord Rust. Behind him, Lord Selachii rolled his eyes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—ah, now he's unfurling it… it's… a <em class="calibre9">white</em> flag, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Someone wishes to surrender?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The general lowered his telescope. “It doesn't… I don't… they seem to be in a great hurry to do so, sire.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Send a squad to apprehend them,” said Prince Cadram.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We will do so too,” added Lord Rust hurriedly, nodding to the lieutenant.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, a joint effort,” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A few seconds later groups of men detached themselves from each army and rode out on an interception course.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Everyone saw the sudden glints of sunlight from the approaching cloud. Weapons had been drawn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fighting under a flag of surrender? That's… <em class="calibre9">immoral</em>!” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Novel, certainly,” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The three companies would have met, had it not been that even experts find it hard to judge how much ground a running camel can cover. By the time both commanders realized they should start to turn, they should have already been turning.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It seems your people misjudged things, sire,” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">knew</em> I should have had them led by white officers,” said the Prince. “But… oh dear, it seems your men have been equally unlucky—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stopped. Some confusion had resulted. The foray parties had their instructions, but no one had told them what to do if they ran into the other foray party. And it was composed, after all, of men they were about to fight, and everyone knew they were treacherous greasy towel heads or perfidious untrustworthy sausage-eating madmen. And this was a battlefield. And everyone was frightened and, therefore, angry. And everyone was armed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam Vimes heard the shouting behind him but had other things on his mind at this point. It is impossible to ride a running camel without concentrating on your liver and kidneys, in the hope that they won't be pounded out of your body.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The thing's legs weren't moving right, he was sure. Nothing on normal legs could be jolting him around so much. The horizon jerked backwards and forwards and up and down.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">What was it Ahmed had said?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hit the camel hard and yelled, “Huthuthut!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It accelerated. The jolts ran together, so that his body was no longer being jolted but was in effect in a permanent state of jolt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thrashed it again and tried to yell, “Huthuthut!” although the word came out more like “Hngngngn!” In any case, the camel found some extra knees somewhere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more shouting behind him. Turning his head as much as he dared, he saw several of his accompanying D'regs falling behind. He was certain he heard Carrot yell, but he couldn't be certain because of his own screaming.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stop, you bastard!” he yelled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The tent was coming up fast. Vimes slapped the stick down again and hauled on the reins and, clearly now judging with special camel sensitivity that this was the most embarrassing moment to stop, the camel stopped. Vimes slid forward, flung his arms round a neck that was apparently thatched with old doormats, and half fell, half dropped on to the sand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Other camels were thudding to a halt around him. Carrot grabbed his arm.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you all right, sir? That was amazing! You really impressed the D'regs, screaming defiance like that! And you were still shouting for the camel to go faster when it was already galloping!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Gngn?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The guards around the tent were hesitating, but that wouldn't last long.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The wind caught the white flag on Carrot's lance, making it snap.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir, this <em class="calibre9">is</em> all right, isn't it? I mean, usually a white flag—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Might as well show what we're fighting for, eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose so, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">D'regs had surrounded the tent. The air was full of dust and screams.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What happened back there?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A bit of fracas, sir. Our—” Carrot hesitated and then corrected himself. “That is, Ankh-Morpork soldiers and Klatchians have started fighting, sir. And the D'regs are fighting both of them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What, before the battle's officially declared? Can't you get disqualified for that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked back at the guards and pointed to the flag.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You know what this flag is?” he said. “Well, I want you to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aren't you Mr Vimes?” said one of the Morporkians. “And that's Captain Carrot, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, hello, Mr Smallplank,” said Carrot. “Feeding you well, are they?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes rolled his eyes. That was Carrot again, <em class="calibre9">knowing</em> everyone. And the man had called him “sir”…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We just need to go through,” said Carrot. “We won't be a minute.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, sir, these tow—” Smallplank hesitated. Certain words didn't come so easily when the subjects were standing very close to you, looking very big and tooled up. “These Klatchians are on guard too, you see—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A stream of blue smoke was blown past Vimes's ear.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning, gentlemen,” said 71-hour Ahmed. He had a D'reg crossbow in each hand. “You will note that the soldiers behind me are also well armed? Good. My name is 71-hour Ahmed. I will shoot the last man to drop his weapons. You have my word on it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Morporkians looked puzzled. The Klatchians began to whisper urgently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Put 'em down, boys,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Morporkians threw their swords down hurriedly. The Klatchians dropped theirs very shortly afterwards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A tie between the gentleman on the left and the tall one with the squint,” said 71-hour Ahmed, raising both crossbows.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Hey,” said Vimes, “you can't—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The bows twanged. The men dropped, yelling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“However,” said Ahmed, handing the bows to a D'reg behind him, who handed him another loaded one, “out of deference to the sensibilities of Commander Vimes here, I'm settling for one in the thigh and one in the toes. We are, after all, on a mission of peace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He turned to Vimes. “I'm sorry, Sir Samuel, but it's important that people know where they stand with me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These two don't,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They'll live.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes moved closer to the <em class="calibre9">wali</em>.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Huthuthut</em>?” he hissed. “You told me that it meant—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought it would prove a good example to all if you were in the lead,” Ahmed whispered. “The D'regs will always follow a man who is in a hurry for the fray.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust stepped out into the sunlight and glared at Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes? What the hell are you doing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not turning a blind eye, my lord.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes pushed past and into the shade. There was Prince Cadram, still seated. And there were a lot of armed men. These, he noted almost in passing, didn't have the look of ordinary soldiers. They had the much tougher look of loyal bodyguards.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So,” said the Prince, “you come in here armed, under a flag of peace?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you Prince Cadram?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you, too, Ahmed?” said the Prince, ignoring Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed nodded, and said nothing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh, not now, thought Vimes. Tough as leather and vicious as a wasp, but now he's in the presence of his king…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're under arrest,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince made a little sound between a cough and a laugh.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm <em class="calibre9">what</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am arresting you for conspiracy to murder your brother. And there may be other charges.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince put his hands over his face for a moment and then pulled them down towards his chin, in the action of a tired man endeavouring to come to grips with a dying situation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr—?” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir Samuel Vimes, Ankh-Morpork City Watch,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, Mr Samuel, when I raise my hand the men behind me will cut you d—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I will kill the first man that moves,” said Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then the second man that moves will kill <em class="calibre9">you</em>, traitor!” shouted the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They'll have to move <em class="calibre9">very</em> fast,” said Carrot, drawing his sword.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Any volunteers to be the third man?” said Vimes. “Anyone?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">General Ashal moved, but only very gently, holding up a hand. The bodyguards relaxed slightly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was that… <em class="calibre9">lie</em> you uttered about a murder?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you gone mad, Ashal?” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, sire, before I can disbelieve these pernicious lies, I do need to know what they are.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes, you <em class="calibre9">have</em> gone insane,” said Rust. “You can't arrest the commander of an army!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Actually, Mr Vimes, I think we could,” said Carrot. “And the army, too. I mean, I don't see why we <em class="calibre9">can't</em>. We could charge them with behaviour likely to cause a breach of the peace, sir. I mean, that's what warfare <em class="calibre9">is</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's face split in a manic grin. “I <em class="calibre9">like</em> it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But in fairness our – that is, the Ankh-Morpork army – are also—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you'd better arrest them too,” said Vimes. “Arrest the lot of 'em. Conspiracy to cause an affray,” he started to count on his fingers, “going equipped to commit a crime, obstruction, threatening behaviour, loitering with intent, loitering <em class="calibre9">within</em> tent, hah, travelling for the purposes of committing a crime, malicious lingering and carrying concealed weapons.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think that one—” Carrot began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">I</em> can't see 'em,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes, I <em class="calibre9">order</em> you to come to your senses this minute!” roared Lord Rust. “Have you been out in the sun?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's one count of offensive behaviour to his lordship as well,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince was still staring at Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You seriously think that you can <em class="calibre9">arrest</em> an army?” he said. “Perhaps you think you have a <em class="calibre9">bigger</em> army?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't need one,” said Vimes. “Power at a point, that's what Tacticus says. And here it's the one right on the end of Ahmed's crossbow. That wouldn't frighten a D'reg, but you… I reckon you don't think like them. Tell your men to stand down. I want the order to go out right now.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Even Ahmed would not shoot his prince in cold blood,” said Prince Cadram.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes snatched the crossbow. “I wouldn't ask him to!” He took aim. “Give that order!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Prince stared at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Count of three!” shouted Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">General Ashal leaned down and whispered something to the Prince. The man's expression stiffened and he glanced back at Vimes again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's right,” said Vimes. “It runs in the family.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It would be murder!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Would it? In wartime? I'm from Ankh-Morpork. Aren't I supposed to be at war with you? Can't be murder if there's a war on. That's written down somewhere.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The general leaned down and whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now there was a hurried argument.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Two.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Myprincewishesmetosay—” the general began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, slow down,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If it makes you any happier, I will send out the order,” said the general. “Let the messengers leave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes nodded and lowered the bow. The Prince shifted uneasily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the Ankh-Morpork army will stand down as well,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But, Vimes, you're on <em class="calibre9">our</em> side—” Rust began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Bloody hell, I'm going to shoot <em class="calibre9">someone</em> today and it could just be you, Rust,” Vimes snarled.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sir?” Lieutenant Hornett tugged at his commander's jacket. “May I have a word?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes heard them whispering, and then the young man left.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, we are all disarmed,” said Rust. “We are all ‘under arrest’. And now, commander?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I ought to read them their rights, sir,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What are you talking about?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The men out there, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Yeah. Right. Do it, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Oh gods, I arrested an entire battlefield, Vimes thought. And you can't <em class="calibre9">do</em> that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But I've <em class="calibre9">done</em> it. And we've only got six cells back at the Yard, and we keep the coal in one of them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">You can't <em class="calibre9">do</em> it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Was this the army that invaded your country, ma'am? No, officer, they were taller than that…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">How about this one? Im not sure – get them to march up and down a bit…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot's voice could be heard outside, slightly muffled:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Now… can you all hear me? You gentlemen in the back there? Anyone who can't hear me, please raise… all right, has anyone got a megaphone? Some cardboard I could roll up? In that case I'll shout</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What now?” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm taking you back to Ankh-Morpork—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think so. That would be an act of war.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You are making a mockery of the whole business, Vimes!” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So long as I'm doing something right, then.” Vimes nodded at Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Then you can answer for your crime here, sire,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In what court?” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed leaned closer to Vimes. “What was your plan from here on?” he whispered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never thought we'd get this far!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah. Well… it has been interesting, Sir Samuel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Prince Cadram smiled at Vimes. “Would you like some coffee while you are considering your next move?” he said. He gestured to an ornate silver pot on the table.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We've got proof,” Vimes said. But he could feel the world dropping away. The point about burning your boats is that you shouldn't be standing on them when you drop the match.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Fascinating. And to whom will you show this proof, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We'll have to find a court.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Intriguing. A court in Ankh-Morpork, perhaps? Or a court here?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Someone told me that the world watches,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was silence except for the muffled sounds of Carrot, outside, and the occasional buzz of a fly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…bingeley-bingeley beep…” The Dis-organizer's voice had lost its chirpy little edge, and sounded sleepy and bewildered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Heads turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…<em class="calibre9">Seven eh em… Organize Defenders at River Gate… Seven twenty-five… Hand-to-Hand Fighting in Peach Pie Street… Seven forty-eight eight eight… Rally Survivors in Sator Square… Things To Do Today: Build Build Build Barricades</em>…” </div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware of surreptitious movement behind him, and then slight pressure. Ahmed was standing back to back with him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is that thing talking about?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Search me. Sounds like it's in a different world, doesn't it…?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He could feel events racing towards a distant wall. Sweat filled his eyes. He couldn't remember when he'd last had a proper sleep. His legs twinged. His arms ached, pulled down by the heavy bow.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…<em class="calibre9">bingeley… Eight oh two eh em, Death of Corporal Littlebottombottom… Eight oh three eh em… Death of Sergeant Detritus… Eight oh threethreethree eh em and seven seconds seconds… Death of Constable Visit… Eight oh three eh em and nineninenine seconds… Death of death of death of</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They say that in Ankh-Morpork one of your ancestors killed a king,” said the Prince. “And he also came to no good end.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes wasn't listening.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…<em class="calibre9">Death of Constable Dorfl… Eight oh three eh em and fourteenteenteen seconds</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The figure in the throne seemed to take up the whole world.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Death of Captain Carrot Ironfoundersson</em>… beep…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vimes thought: <em class="calibre9">I nearly didn't come</em>. I nearly stayed in Ankh-Morpork.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He had always wondered how Old Stoneface had felt, that frosty morning when he picked up the axe that had no legal blessing because the King wouldn't recognize a court even if a jury could be found, that frosty morning when he prepared to sever what people thought was a link between men and deity </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“…<em class="calibre9">beep… Things To Do Today Today Today: Die</em>…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sensation flowed into his veins like fresh warm blood. It was the feeling that you got when the law ran out, and you looked into a mocking face on the other side of it and you decided that you couldn't go on living if you did not step over the line and do one clean thing—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was shouting outside. He blinked away the sweat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… Commander Vimes…” said a voice somewhere back over the border.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He kept his aching gaze sighted along the bow. “Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A hand darted down and grabbed the arrow out of its groove. Vimes blinked. His finger automatically squeezed the trigger. The string slammed back with a <em class="calibre9">thunk</em>. And the look on the Prince's face, he knew, would keep him warm on cold nights, if there were ever cold nights again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd heard them all die. But they <em class="calibre9">weren't</em> dead. And yet the damn thing had sounded so… accurate…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari dropped the arrow fastidiously, like a society lady who has had to handle something sticky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, Vimes. I see you've got the donkey up the minaret. Good morning, gentlemen.” He gave the company a happy smile. “I see I am not too late.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vetinari?” said Rust, seeming to wake up. “What are you doing here? This is a battlefield—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I wonder.” The Patrician gave him a very brief smile of his very own. “Outside there seem to be a lot of men sitting around. Many of them seem to be having what I believe is known in military parlance as a brew-up. And Captain Carrot is organizing a football match.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's <em class="calibre9">what</em>?” said Vimes, lowering the bow. Suddenly the world had to be real again. If Carrot was doing something as dumb as that, things were normal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite a large number of fouls so far, I'm afraid. But I wouldn't call it a battlefield.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Who's winning?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ankh-Morpork, I believe. By two hacked shins and a broken nose.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For the first time in ages Vimes felt a little pang of patriotism. Everything else in life was in the privy, but when it came to gouging and kicking he knew which side he was on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Besides,” Vetinari went on, “I believe quite a large number of people are technically under arrest. And clearly a state of war is not, in practical fact, in being. It is merely a state of football. Therefore, I believe, I am, shall we say… back. Excuse me, sire, but this won't take a moment.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He held up a metal cylinder and began to unscrew the end.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For some reason Vimes felt inclined to take a few steps away from it. “What's that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I thought this might become necessary,” said Vetinari. “It took some preparation, but I am certain it will work. I hope they're readable. We did our best to keep the damp off them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A thick roll of paper dropped out onto the floor.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Commander, have you nothing you should be doing?” he added. “Refereeing, perhaps?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes picked up the roll and read the first few lines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Whereas… heretofore, etc, etc… City of Ankh-Morpork… <em class="calibre9">Surrender</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What?” said Rust and the Prince together.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, surrender,” said Vetinari cheerfully. “A little piece of paper and it's all over. I think you'll find it all in order.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't—” Rust began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can't—” said the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Unconditionally?” said General Ashal sharply.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I think so,” said Vetinari. “We give up all claim to Leshp in favour of Klatch, we withdraw all troops from Klatch and our citizens from the island, and as for reparations… shall we say a quarter of a million dollars? Plus various favourable trade arrangements, most-favoured-nation status and so on and so on. It's all here. Feel free to read it at your leisure.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He passed the document over the head of the Prince and into the hands of the general, who flicked through the pages.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But we haven't <em class="calibre9">got</em>–” Vimes began. Perhaps I <em class="calibre9">did</em> get killed, he thought. I'm on the other side, or someone hit me very hard on the head and this is all some kind of mirage—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a forgery!” snapped the Prince. “It's a trick!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, sire, this man certainly does appear to be Lord Vetinari and these do seem to be the official seals of Ankh-Morpork,” said the general. “‘Whereas… whereby… without prejudice… ratification within four days… way of trade’… yes, this does, I have to say, look genuine.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I won't accept it!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I see, sire. It does, though, appear to cover all the points which in your speech last week you—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">certainly</em> wouldn't accept it!” Rust shouted. He waved a finger under Vetinari's nose. “You'll be banished for this!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But we haven't <em class="calibre9">got</em> that money, Vimes repeated, but this time to himself. We're a very rich city, but we haven't got any actual money. The wealth of Ankh-Morpork is in its people, we're told. And you couldn't remove it with big pliers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He felt the wind change.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vetinari watching him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And there was something about General Ashal. A certain hunger…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I agree with Rust,” he said. “This is dragging the good name of Ankh-Morpork in the mud.” To his mild surprise he managed to say that without smiling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We lose nothing, sire,” General Ashal insisted. “They withdraw from Klatch and Leshp—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Damned if we will!” screamed Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right! And have everyone know we've been <em class="calibre9">beaten</em>?” said Vimes. “<em class="calibre9">Outwitted</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at the Prince, whose gaze was hunting from man to man, but occasionally staring at nothing, as if he was watching some inner vision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A quarter of a million is not enough,” the Prince said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari shrugged. “We can discuss it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There is much that I need to buy.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Things of a sharp metallic nature, no doubt,” said Vetinari. “Of course, if we are talking about goods rather than money, there is room for… flexibility…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And now we're going to arm him too, Vimes thought.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'll be out of the city in a week!” Rust screamed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes thought the general smiled briefly. Ankh-Morpork without Vetinari… ruled by people like Rust. His future was looking bright indeed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The surrender <em class="calibre9">will</em> need to be ratified and formally witnessed, however,” said Ashal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“May I suggest Ankh-Morpork?” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. On neutral territory, of course,” said the general.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But where, between Ankh-Morpork and Klatch, is there such a thing?” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose… there is Leshp,” said the general thoughtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What a good idea,” said the Patrician. “That would not have occurred to me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The place is ours anyway!” snapped the Prince.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Will</em> be, sire. Will be,” said the general soothingly. “We will take possession. Quite legally. While the world watches.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that's it? What about my arrest?” said Vimes. “I'm not going to—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“These are matters of state,” said Vetinari. “And there are… diplomatic considerations. I am afraid the good ordering of international affairs cannot hinge upon your concerns over the doings of one man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Once again Vimes felt that the words he was hearing were not the words that were being said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I won't—” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There are larger issues here.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sterling work, nevertheless.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There are big crimes and little crimes, is that it?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why don't you take some well-earned rest, Sir Samuel? You are,” Vetinari flashed one of his lightning-fast smiles, “a man of action. You deal in swords, and chases, and facts. Now, alas, it is the time for the men of words, who deal in promises and mistrust and opinions. For you the war is over. Enjoy the sunshine. I trust we shall all be returning home shortly. I would like you to stay, Lord Rust…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes realized that he'd been switched off. He spun round and marched out of the tent.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed followed him. “That's your master, is it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! He's just the man who pays my wages!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Often hard to know the difference,” said Ahmed sympathetically.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sat down on the sand. He wasn't certain how he'd been managing to stand up. There was some kind of a future now. He hadn't the faintest idea what was in it, but there <em class="calibre9">was</em> one. There hadn't been one five minutes ago. He wanted to talk now. That way, he didn't have to think about the Dis-organizer's death roll. It had sounded so… <em class="calibre9">accurate</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's going to happen to you?” he said, to drive the thought out of his mind. “When this is over, I mean. <em class="calibre9">Your</em> boss isn't going to be pleased with you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, the desert can swallow me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He'll send people after you. He looks the type.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The desert will swallow them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Without chewing?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Believe it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It shouldn't have to be like this!” Vimes shouted, at the sky in general. “You know? Sometimes I <em class="calibre9">dream</em> that we could deal with the big crimes, that we could make a law for countries and not just for people, and people like him would have—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed pulled him upright and patted him on the shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know how it is,” he said. “I dream too.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You do?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Generally of fish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a roar from the crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Someone's scored a convincing foul, by the sound of it,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They slid and staggered up the side of a dune, and watched.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone broke from the scrum and, punching and kicking, staggered towards the Klatchian goal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Isn't that man your butler?” said Ahmed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“One of your soldiers said he bit a man's nose off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shrugged. “He's got a very pointed look if I don't use the sugar tongs, I know that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A white figure marched authoritatively through the mill of players, blowing a whistle.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And that man, I believe, is your king.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Then I am Queen Punjitrurn of Sumtri.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot's a copper, same as me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A man like that could inspire a handful of broken men to conquer a country.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fine. Just so long as he does it on his day off.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And he too takes orders from you? You are a remarkable man, Sir Samuel. But you would not, I think, have killed the Prince.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. But you'd have killed me if I had.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. Flagrant murder in front of witnesses. I am, after all, a copper.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They'd reached the camels. One looked round as Ahmed prepared to mount, thought better of spitting at him, and hit Vimes instead. With great precision.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed looked back at the footballers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Up in Klatchistan the nomads play a game very similar to that,” he said. “But on horseback. The aim is to get the object round the goal.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Object?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Probably best just to think of it as an ‘object’ Sir Samuel. And now, I think, I shall head that way. There are thieves in the mountains. The air is clear up there. As you know, there is always work for policemen.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You thinking of returning to Ankh-Morpork at any time?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd like to see me there, Sir Samuel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's an open city. But be sure to call in at Pseudopolis Yard when you arrive.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, and we can reminisce about old times.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. So you can hand over that sword. We'd give you a receipt and you can pick it up when you leave.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'd take some persuading, Sir Samuel.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I think I'd only ask once.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Ahmed laughed, nodded at Vimes and rode away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For a few minutes he was a shape at the base of a column of dust, and then a shifting dot in the heat haze, and then the desert swallowed him.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The day wore on. Various Klatchian officials and some of the Ankh-Morpork people were summoned to the tent. Vimes wandered close to it a few times and heard the sound of voices raised in dispute.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Meanwhile, the armies dug in. Someone had already erected a crude signpost, its arms pointing to various soldiers' homes. Since these were all in part of Ankh-Morpork the arms all pointed exactly the same way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He found most of the Watch sitting out of the wind, while a wizened Klatchian woman cooked quite a complicated meal over a small fire. They all seemed to be fully alive, with the usual slight question the case of Reg Shoe.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where've you been, Sergeant Colon?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Been sworn to secrecy about that, sir. By his lordship.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right.” Vimes didn't press the point. Getting information out of Colon was like getting water out of a flannel. It could wait. “And Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right here, sir!” The wizened woman saluted in a clash of bangles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's <em class="calibre9">you</em>?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir! Doing the dirty work as per the woman's role in life, sir, despite the fact that there is less senior watchmen present, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Now then, Nobby,” said Colon. “Cheery can't cook, we can't let Reg do it because bits fall into the pan, and Angua—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—doesn't do cookery,” said Angua. She was lying back on a rock with her eyes closed. The rock was the slumbering shape of Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, you just started doing the cooking like you was expecting to have to do it,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Kebab, sir?” said Nobby. “There's plenty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You certainly got a lot of food from somewhere,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Klatchian quartermaster, sir,” said Nobby, grinning beneath his veil. “Used my sexual wiles on him, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's kebab stopped halfway to his mouth and dripped lamb fat onto his legs. He saw Angua's eyes slam open and stare in horror at the sky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I told him I'd take my clothes off and scream if he didn't give me some grub, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That'd scare the daylights out of me, sure enough,” said Vimes. He saw Angua breathe out again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, I reckon if I played my cards right I could be one of them fatal femmies,” said Nobby. “I've only got to wink at a man and he runs a mile. Could be useful, that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I <em class="calibre9">told</em> him he could change back into his uniform, but he says he feels more comfortable like this,” whispered Colon to Vimes. “I'm getting a bit worried, to tell you the truth.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">I can't handle this, Vimes thought. This isn't in the book of rules.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… how can I explain this…?” he began.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't want any of them in-you-endoes,” said Nobby. “It's a good idea to walk a mile in someone else's shoes, that's all I'm saying.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, so long as it's just sh—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've just been gettin' in touch with my softer side, all right? Seein' the other man's point of view, sort of thing, even if he's a woman.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at their faces and waved his hands vaguely. “All right, all right, I'll put my uniform on after I've tidied up around the camp. Will that make you all happy?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something smells nice!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot ran up, bouncing his football. He'd stripped to his waist. The whistle bounced on its string around his neck.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've declared half-time,” he said, sitting down. “So I've sent some of the lads into Gebra to get four thousand oranges. Shortly the combined Ankh-Morpork regimental bands will put on a display of counter-marching while playing a selection of military favourites.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have they <em class="calibre9">practised</em> counter-marching?” said Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think so.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Should be good, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Carrot,” said Vimes, “I don't wish to pry, but how, in the middle of a desert, did you find a football?” And the voice in the back of his mind insisted: you heard him die, you heard them all die… somewhere else.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, these days I carry a deflated one in my pack, sir. A very pacifying object, a football. Are you all right, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Eh? What? Oh. Yes. Just a bit… tired. So who's winning?” Vimes patted his pockets, and found his last cigar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's broadly speaking a tie, sir. I had to send four hundred and seventy-three men off, though. Klatch is now well ahead on fouls, I'm sorry to say.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sport as a substitute for war, eh?” said Vimes. He rootled in the ashes of Nobby's fire and pulled out a half-consumed… well, it helped to think of it as a desert coal.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Carrot gave him a solemn look. “Yes, sir. No one's using weapons. And have you noticed how the Klatchian army is getting smaller? Some of the chiefs from distant parts are taking their men away. They say there's no point in staying if there's not going to be a war. I don't think they really wanted to be here in any case, to tell you the truth. And I don't think it's going to be easy to get them to come back—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was shouting behind them. Men were coming out of the tent, arguing. Lord Rust was among them. He looked around, talking to his companions. Then he spotted Vimes and rocketed furiously towards him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Vimes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked up, hand halfway to his cigar.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We would have won, you know,” growled Rust. “We would have won! But we were betrayed on the brink of success!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stared at him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it's <em class="calibre9">your</em> fault, Vimes! We'll be the laughing stock of Klatch! You know the value these people put on face, and we won't have any! Vetinari is <em class="calibre9">finished</em>! And so are you! And so is your stupid, mongrel, <em class="calibre9">cowardly</em> Watch! What do you say to that, Vimes? Eh?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen sat like statues, waiting for Vimes to say something. Or even move.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Eh? Vimes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust sniffed. “What's that smell?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes slowly shifted his gaze to his fingers. Smoke was rising. There was a faint sizzling.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He stood up and brought his fingers up in front of Rust's face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Take it,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's… just some trick…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Take it</em>,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mesmerized, Rust licked his fingers and gingerly took the ember. “It doesn't hurt—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, it does,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In fact it– Aargh!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust jumped back, dropped the ember and sucked his blistered fingers.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The trick is not to mind that it hurts,” said Vimes. “Now go away.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You won't last long,” Rust sneered. “You wait until we're back in the city. You just wait.” He strode off, holding his stricken hand.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went back and sat down by the fire. After a while he said: “Where's he gone now?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Back to the lines, sir. I think he's ordering the men home.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can he see us?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You sure?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There's too many people in the way, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're quite sure?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not unless he can see through camels, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.” Vimes stuck his fingers in his mouth. Sweat was pouring down his face. “Damn damn damn! Has anyone got any cold water?”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Captain Jenkins had got his ship afloat again. It had taken a lot of digging, and some careful work with balks of timber and the assistance of a Klatchian captain who had decided not to let patriotism stand in the way of profit.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He and his crew were resting on the shore when a greeting rang out from over them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He squinted into the sun.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That… that can't be Vimes, can it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crew stared.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let's get aboard right <em class="calibre9">now</em>!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure started down the face of the dune. It moved very fast, much faster than a man could run on the shifting sand, and moved in a zig-zag fashion. As it drew nearer, it turned out to be a man standing on a shield.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It slid to a halt a few feet away from the astonished Jenkins.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good of you to wait, captain!” said Carrot. “Very many thanks! The others will be down in a minute.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins looked back to the top of the dune. There were other, darker figures there now.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Those are D'regs!” he shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. Lovely people. Have you met them at all?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins stared at Carrot. “Did you <em class="calibre9">win</em>?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, yes. On penalties, in the end.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Green-blue light filtered through the tiny windows of the Boat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari pulled the steering levers until he was pretty certain that they were heading towards a suitable ship and said:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What is it I can smell, Sergeant Colon?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's Bet– It's Nobby, sir,” said Colon, pedalling industriously.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Corporal Nobbs?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby almost blushed. “I bought a bottle of scent, sir. For my young lady.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari coughed. “What exactly do you mean by ‘your young lady’?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, for when I get one,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah.” Even Lord Vetinari sounded relieved.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On account of I expect I shall now, me having fully explored my sexual nature and now feeling fully comfortable with meself,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You feel comfortable with yourself?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir!” said Nobby happily.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And when you find this lucky lady, you will give her this bottle of—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s called ‘Kasbah Nights’, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course. Very… <em class="calibre9">floral</em>, isn't it?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. That's 'cos of the jasmine and rare ungulants in it, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And yet at the same time curiously… <em class="calibre9">penetrative</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby grinned. “Good value for money, sir. A little goes a long way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not far enough, possibly?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">But Nobby rusted even irony. “I got it in the same shop that sarge got the hump, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah… yes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There wasn't very much space in the Boat, and most of it was taken up with Sergeant Colon's souvenirs. He'd been allowed a brief shopping expedition “to take home something for the wife, sir, otherwise I'll never hear the last of it”.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mrs Colon will like a stuffed camel hump, will she, sergeant?” said the Patrician doubtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yessir. She can put things on it, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the set of nested brass tables?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To put things on, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And the” – there was a clanking – “set of goat bells, ornamental coffee pot, miniature camel saddle and this… strange glass tube with little bands of different coloured sand in it… what are these for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Conversation pieces, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean people will say things like ‘What are they for?’, do you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon looked pleased with himself.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“See, sir? We're talking about 'em already.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Remarkable.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sergeant Colon coughed and indicated with a tilt of his head the hunched figure of Leonard, who was sitting in the stern with his head in his hands.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He's a bit quiet, sir,” he whispered. “Can't seem to get a word out of him.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He has a lot on his mind,” said the Patrician.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The watchmen pedalled onwards for a while, but the close confines of the Boat encouraged a confidentiality that would never have been found on land.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry to hear you're getting the sack, sir,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd definitely get my vote, if we had elections.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Capital.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think people <em class="calibre9">want</em> the thumbscrew of firm government, myself.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Your predecessor, Lord Snapcase, now he was mental. But, like I've always said, people know where they stand with Lord Vetinari…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They might not <em class="calibre9">like</em> where they're standing of course…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Vetinari looked up. They were under a boat now and it seemed to be going in the right direction. He steered the Boat until he heard the <em class="calibre9">thunk</em> of hull hitting hull, and gave the auger a few turns.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Am I being sacked, sergeant?” he said, sitting back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, eh, I heard Lord Rust's people say that if you rat… rat…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ratify,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, if you <em class="calibre9">ratify</em> that surrender next week, they'll get you exiled, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A week is a long time in politics, sergeant.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon's face widened in what he thought of as a knowing grin. He tapped the side of his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, <em class="calibre9">politics</em>,” he said. “Ah, you should've <em class="calibre9">said</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, they'll laugh at the other foot then, eh?” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Got some secret plan, I'll be bound,” said Colon. “You know where the chicken is all right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can see there's no fooling such skilled observers of the carnival that is life,” said Lord Vetinari. “Yes, indeed, there is something I intend to do.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He adjusted the position of the camel-hump pouffe, which in fact smelled of goat and was beginning to leak sand, and lay back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm going to do nothing. Wake me up if anything interesting happens.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Nautical things happened. The wind spun about so much that a weather-cock might as well be harnessed to grinding corn. At one point there was a fall of anchovies.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Commander Vimes tried to sleep. Jenkins showed him a hammock, and Vimes realized that this was another sheep's eyeball. No one could possibly sleep in something like that. Sailors probably kept them up for show and had real beds tucked away somewhere.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to make himself comfortable in the hold, and dozed while the others talked in the corner. They were very politely keeping out of his way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—ordship wouldn't give the whole thing away, would he? What were we fighting for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He'll have a hard job hanging on to the job after this, that's for sure. It's dragging the good name of Ankh-Morpork in the mud, like Mr Vimes said.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“For Ankh-Morpork, mud is <em class="calibre9">up</em>.” That was Angua.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“On der other han”, everyone is still breathin'.” That was Detritus.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's a vitalist remark—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry, Reg. What you scratchin' for?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I picked up a filthy foreign disease.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sorry?” Angua again. “What can a zombie catch?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Don't like to say…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're talking to someone who knows every brand of flea powder they sell in Ankh-Morpork, Reg.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, if you must know… Mice, miss. It's shameful. I keep myself clean, but they just find a way—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have you tried everything?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Excepting ferrets.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“If his lordship goes, who'll take over?” That was Cheery. “Lord Rust?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He'd last five minutes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Maybe the guilds will get together and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They'll fight like—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—ferrets,” said Reg. “The cure's worse than the disease.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Cheer up, there'll still be a Watch.” That was Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, but Mr Vimes'll be out on his ear. 'cos of politics.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes decided to keep his eyes closed.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A silent crowd was waiting on the quayside when the ship finally docked. They watched Vimes and his men walk down the gangway. There were one or two coughs, and then someone called out:</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Say it ain't so, Mr Vimes!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">At the foot of the gangplank Constable Dorfl saluted stiffly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Rust's Ship Got In This Morning, Sir,” the golem said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyone seen Vetinari?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Afraid to show his face!” someone shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lord Rust Said You Were To Do Your Duty, Damn You,” said Dorfl. Golems had a certain literalness of speech.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He handed Vimes a sheet of paper. Vimes grabbed it and read the first few lines.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What's this? ‘Emergency Council?’ And this?… <em class="calibre9">Treason?</em> Against Vetinari? I'm not carrying this out!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can I see, sir?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It was Angua who noticed the wave, while the others were staring at the warrant. Even in human form a werewolf's ears are pretty sensitive.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She wandered back to the quayside and looked downriver.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A wall of white water a few feet high was running up the Ankh. As it passed, boats were lifted and rocked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It sloshed by her, sucking at the quay and making Jenkins's boat dance for a moment. There was a crash of crockery somewhere aboard.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then it was gone, a line of surf heading towards the next bridge. For a moment the air smelled not of the Ankh's <em class="calibre9">eau de latrine</em> but of sea winds and salt.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Jenkins appeared out of his cabin and looked over the side.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was that? The tide changing?” Angua called up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We came up on the tide,” said Jenkins. “Beats me. One of those phenomena, I expect.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua went back to the group. Vimes was already red in the face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It <em class="calibre9">has</em> been signed by quite a lot of the major guilds, sir,” Carrot was saying. “In fact they're all here except the Beggars and the Seamstresses.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Well, piss on 'em! Who are they to give me an order like that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua saw the look of pain cross Carrot's face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Uh… <em class="calibre9">someone</em> has to give us orders, sir. In a general sort of way. We aren't supposed to make up our own. That's sort of… the point.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes… but… not like…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And I suppose they represent the will of the people—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That bunch? Don't give me that rubbish! We'd have been <em class="calibre9">slaughtered</em> if we'd fought! And then we'd be in just the same position as we—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“This does look legal, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's… ridiculous!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's not as if <em class="calibre9">we</em> are accusing him, sir. We just have to make sure he turns up at the Rats Chamber. Look, sir, you've had a very trying time—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But… arrest Vetinari? I can't—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes stopped, because his ears had caught up. And because that was the point, wasn't it? If you could arrest anyone, then that's what you had to do. You couldn't turn round and say “but not <em class="calibre9">him”</em>. Ahmed would snigger. Old Stoneface would turn in all five of his graves.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I can, can't I?” he said, sadly. “Oh, all right. Put out a description, Dorfl.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That Will Not Be Necessary, Sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowds moved aside as Lord Vetinari walked along the quay, with Nobby and Colon behind him. At least, if it wasn't Sergeant Colon it was a very strangely deformed camel.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I caught quite a lot of that, commander,” said Lord Vetinari. “Please do your duty.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All you've got to do is to go to the palace, sir. Let's—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're not going to handcuff me?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes's mouth dropped open. “Why should I do that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Treason is very nearly the ultimate crime, Sir Samuel. I think I should <em class="calibre9">demand</em> handcuffs.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right, if you insist.” Vimes nodded at Dorfl. “Cuff him, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You haven't any shackles, by any chance?” said Lord Vetinari, as Dorfl produced a pair of handcuffs. “We may as well do this thing properly—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No. We <em class="calibre9">don't</em> have any shackles.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was only trying to help, Sir Samuel. Shall we be going?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The crowd weren't jeering. That was almost frightening. They were just waiting, like an audience watching to see how the trick was going to be done. They parted again as the Patrician headed towards the centre of the city. He stopped and turned.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What was the other thing… oh yes, I don't have to be dragged on a hurdle, do I?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Only if you're actually executed, my lord,” said Carrot, cheerfully. “Traditionally, traitors are dragged to their place of execution on a hurdle. And then you're hung, drawn and quartered.” Carrot looked embarrassed. “I know about the hanging and quartering but I'm not sure how you're drawn, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you any good with a pencil, captain?” said Lord Vetinari innocently.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, he's not!” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do you actually <em class="calibre9">have</em> a hurdle?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">No</em>!” snapped Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Well, I believe there's a sports equipment shop in Sheer Street. Just in case, Sir Samuel.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">A figure walked across the trampled sand near Gebra, and paused when a voice very near ground level said, hopefully, “Bingeley-bingeley beep?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Dis-organizer felt itself being picked up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">WHAT KIND OF A THING ARE YOU?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am the Dis-organizer Mk II, with many handy hard-to-use features, Insert Name Here!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">SUCH AS?</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Even the Dis-organizer's tiny mind felt slightly uneasy. The voice it was speaking to didn't sound right.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I know what time it is everywhere,” it ventured.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">SO DO I.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… I can maintain an up-to-the-minute contacts directory…” The Dis-organizer felt movements that suggested the new owner had mounted a horse.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">REALLY? I HAVE A GREAT MANY CONTACTS.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There you are, then,” said the demon, trying to hold on to its rapidly draining enthusiasm. “So I make a note of them, and when you want to contact them again—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">THAT IS GENERALLY NOT NECESSARY. MOSTLY, THEY STAY CONTACTED.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well… do you have many appointments?” There were hoofbeats, and then no sound but rushing wind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">MORE THAN YOU COULD POSSIBLY IMAGINE. NO… I THINK, PERHAPS, YOUR TALENTS COULD BE BETTER EMPLOYED ELSEWHERE…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was more rushing wind, and then a splash.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Rats Chamber was crowded. Guild leaders were entitled to be there, but there were plenty of other people who considered they had a right to be in at the death too. There were even some of the senior wizards. Everyone wanted to be able to say to their grandchildren “I was there”.<a href="#_ftn17" title="17. Although of course wizards aren't allowed to, because they're not supposed to have grandchildren."><sup class="calibre10">17</sup></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I feel certain I ought to be wearing more chains,” said Vetinari, as they paused in the doorway and looked at the assembled crowd.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Are you taking this seriously, sir?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Incredibly seriously, commander, I assure you. But if by some chance I survive, I authorize you to buy some shackles. We must learn to do this sort of thing properly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shall keep them handy, I assure you.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician nodded at Lord Rust, who was flanked by Mr Boggis and Lord Downey.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Good morning,” he said. “Can we make this quick? It's going to be a busy day.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It pleases you to <em class="calibre9">continue</em> to make Ankh-Morpork a laughing stock,” Rust began. His glance flicked to Vimes for a moment, and wrote him out of the universe. “This is not a formal trial, Lord Vetinari. It is an arraignment so that the charges may be known. Mr Slant tells me that it will be many weeks before a full trial can be mounted.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Expensive weeks no doubt. Shall we get on with it?” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Mr Slant will read the charges,” said Rust. “But in a nutshell, as you are well aware, Havelock, you are charged with treason. You surrendered most ignobly—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but I did not—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and quite illegally waived all rights to our sovereignty of the country known as Leshp—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—but there is no such place.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lord Rust paused. “Are you quite sane, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The surrender terms were to be ratified on the island of Leshp, Lord Rust. There is no such place.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We <em class="calibre9">passed</em> it on the way here, man!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Has anyone looked recently?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Angua tapped Vimes on the shoulder.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A strange wave came up the river just after we arrived, sir—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was some urgent conversation among the wizards, and Archchancellor Ridcully stood up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There seems to be a bit of a problem, your lordships. The Dean says it really isn't there.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's an <em class="calibre9">island</em>. Are you suggesting someone's stolen it? Are you sure you know where it is, man?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We do know where it is, and it isn't there. There's just a lot of seaweed and wreckage,” said the Dean coldly. He stood up, holding a small crystal ball in his hands. “We've been watching it most evenings. For the fights, you know. Of course, the picture is pretty bad at this distance—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Rust stared at him. But the Dean was too large to be written out of the scene.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But an entire island can't just vanish,” said Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In theory they can't just appear either, my lord, but this one did.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps it's sunk again,” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Now Rust glared at Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did you know about this?” he demanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How could I know something like that?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes watched the faces around the room.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You <em class="calibre9">do</em> know something about this!” said Rust. He glanced towards Mr Slant, who was leafing hurriedly through a large volume.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All I know, my lord, is that Prince Cadram has, at a politically dangerous time for him, given up a huge military advantage in exchange for an island which seems to have sunk under the sea,” said Lord Vetinari. “The Klatchians are a proud people. I wonder what they will think?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Vimes thought about General Ashal, standing beside Prince Cadram's throne. Klatchians like successful leaders, he thought. I wonder what happens to the unsuccessful ones? I mean, look at what when <em class="calibre9">we</em> think—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Someone nudged him.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'s us, sir,” said Nobby. “They said they didn't have any hurdles but they do a ping-pong table for ten dollars. There's a small trampoline we could drag him on but sarge thinks that'd be a bit ridiculous.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes walked out of the room, dragging Nobby with him, and pushed the little man against the wall.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Where did you get to with Vetinari, corporal? And remember I know when you tell me lies. Your lips move.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We… we… we… just went on a little voyage, sir. He said I wasn't to say we went under the island, sir!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you– <em class="calibre9">Under</em> Leshp?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Nossir! We didn't go down there! Stinking hole it was, too. Stunk of rotten eggs, the whole bloody cave, and as big as the city, believe me!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I bet you're glad you didn't go, then.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby looked relieved. “That's right, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes sniffed. “Are you using some kind of aft—” – he corrected himself – “some kind of insteadofshave, Nobby?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Something smells of fermented flowers.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, it's just a souvenir I picked up in foreign parts, sir. It kind of lingers, if you know what I mean.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes shrugged and went back into the Rats Chamber. </div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—and I resent most strongly the suggestion that I would have negotiated with His Highness in the knowledge that… ah, Sir Samuel. The keys to the handcuffs, please.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You knew! You knew all the time!” Rust shouted.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is Lord Vetinari charged with anything?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Mr Slant was scrabbling through another volume. He looked quite flustered, for a zombie. His grey-green shade was distinctly greener.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not as such…” he muttered.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But he <em class="calibre9">will</em> be!” said Lord Rust.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, when you find out what it is you be sure and let me know, and I'll go and arrest him for it,” said Vimes, unlocking the handcuffs.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware of cheering outside. Nothing stayed secret very long in Ankh-Morpork. The damn island wasn't there any more. And, somehow, it had all worked out.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He met Vetinari's eyes. “Piece of luck for you, eh?” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, there's always a chicken, Sir Samuel. If you look hard enough.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The day turned out to be nearly as trying as war. At least one carpet made the flight from Klatch, and there was a constant stream of messages between the palace and the embassy. A crowd still hung around outside the palace. Things were happening, and even if they did not know what they were they weren't going to miss them. If any history was going to occur, they wanted to watch it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes went home. To his amazement, the door was answered by Willikins. He had his sleeves rolled up and was wearing a long green apron.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You? How the hell did you get back so quickly?” said Vimes. “Sorry. I didn't mean to be impolite—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I inveigled myself on to Lord Rust's ship in the general confusion, sir. I did not wish to let things go to rack and ruin here. The silverware is frankly disgusting, I am afraid. The gardener does not have the least idea how to do it. Allow me to apologize in advance for the shocking condition of the cutlery, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A few days ago you were biting people's noses off!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, you must not believe Private Bourke, sir,” said the butler, as Vimes stepped in. “It was only one nose.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And now you've hurried back to polish the silver?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It does not do to let standards slip, sir.” He stopped. “Sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Did we win?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked into the round pink face.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… we didn't lose, Willikins,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We couldn't let a foreign despot raise a hand to Ankh-Morpork, could we, sir?” said the butler. There was a slight tremble in his voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose not…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So it was right, what we did.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose so…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The gardener was saying that Lord Vetinari put one over on the Klatchians, sir…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't see why not. He's done it with everyone else.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That would be very satisfactory, sir. Lady Sybil is in the Slightly Pink Drawing Room, sir.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">She was knitting inexpertly when Vimes came in, but rose and gave him a kiss.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I heard the news,” she said. “Well done.” She looked him up and down. As far as she could see, he was all there.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not sure that we won…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Getting you back alive counts as a win, Sam. Although of course I wouldn't say that in front of Lady Selachii.” Sybil waved the knitting at him. “She's organized a committee to knit socks for our brave lads at the front, but it turns out you're back. And I haven't even worked out how to turn a heel yet. She's probably going to be annoyed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Er… how long do you think my legs are?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Um…” She looked at the knitting. “Do you need a scarf?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He kissed her again.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm going to have a bath and then something to eat,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The water was only lukewarm. Vimes had some hazy idea that Sybil thought that really hot baths might be letting the side down while there was a war on.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was lying with his nose just above the surface when he heard, with the addition of that special <em class="calibre9">gloinggloing</em> sound that comes from listening with your ears underwater, some distant talking. Then the door opened.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Fred's here. Vetinari wants you,” said Sybil.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Already? But we haven't even <em class="calibre9">started</em> dinner.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm coming with you, Sam. He can't keep on calling you out at all hours, you know.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Sam Vimes tried to look as serious as any man can when he's holding a loofah.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Sybil, Im the Commander of the Watch and he's the ruler of the city. It's not like going to complain to the teacher because I'm not doing well in geography…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I said I'm coming with you, Sam.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">The Boat slipped down its rails and into the water. A stream of bubbles came up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard sighed. He had very carefully refrained from putting the cork in. The current might roll it anywhere. He hoped it'd roll to the deepest pit of the ocean, or even right over the Rim.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He walked unnoticed through the crowds until he came to the palace. He let himself into the secret corridor and avoided the various traps without thinking, since he himself had designed them.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He reached the door to his airy room and unlocked it. When he was inside he locked it again, and pushed the key back under the door. And then he sighed.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">So that was the world, was it? Clearly a mad place, with madmen in it. Well, from now on he'd be careful. It was clear that some men would try to turn <em class="calibre9">anything</em> into a weapon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He made himself a cup of tea, a process slightly delayed while he designed a better sort of spoon and a small device to improve the circulation of the boiling water.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then he sat back in his special chair and pulled a lever. Counterweights dropped. Somewhere, water sloshed from one tank to another. Bits of the chair creaked and slid into a comfortable position.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Leonard stared bleakly out of the skylight. A few seabirds turned lazily in the blue square, circling, hardly moving their wings…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">After a while, his tea growing cold, Leonard began to draw.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">“Lady Sybil? This <em class="calibre9">is</em> an unexpected surprise,” said Lord Vetinari. “Good evening, Sir Samuel, and may I say what a nice scarf you're wearing. And Captain Carrot. Please sit down. We have a lot of business to finish.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They sat.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Firstly,” said Lord Vetinari, “I have just drafted a proclamation for the town criers. The news is good.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The war <em class="calibre9">is</em> officially over, is it?” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The war, captain, never happened. It was a… misunderstanding.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Never happened?” said Vimes. “People got killed!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Quite so,” said Lord Vetinari. “And this suggests, does it not, that we should try to understand one another as much as possible?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What about the Prince?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, I am sure we can do business with him, Vimes.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I don't think so!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Prince Khufurah? I thought you rather liked the man.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What? What happened to the other one?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He appears to have gone on a long visit to the country,” said the Patrician. “At some speed.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You mean the kind of visit where you don't even stop to pack?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That kind of visit, yes. He seems to have upset people.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Do we know which country?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Klatchistan, I believe– I'm sorry, did I say something funny?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, no. No. Just a thought crossed my mind, that's all.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari leaned back. “And so once again peace spreads her tranquil blanket.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I shouldn't think the Klatchians are very happy, though.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is in the nature of people to turn on their leaders when they fail to be lucky,” Vetinari added, his expression not changing. “Oh, there will no doubt be problems. We will just have to… discuss them. Prince Khufurah is an amiable man. Very much like most of his ancestors. A flask of wine, a loaf of bread and thou, or at least a selection of thous, and he'd not be too interested in politics.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They're as clever as us,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“We just have to stay ahead of them, then,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A brain race, sort of,” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Better than an arms race. Cheaper, too,” said the Patrician. He flicked through the papers in front of him. “Now then, what was – oh, yes. The matter of traffic?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Traffic?” Vimes's brain tried to do a u-turn.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes. Our ancient streets are becoming very congested these days. I hear there is a carter in Kings' Way who settled down and raised a family while in the queue. And the responsibility for keeping the streets clear is, in fact, one of the most ancient ones incumbent on the Watch.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Maybe, sir, but these days—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So you will set up a department, Vimes, to regulate matters. To deal with things. Stolen carts and so on. And keeping the major crossroads clear. And perhaps to fine carters who park for too long and impede the flow. And so on. Sergeant Colon and Corporal Nobbs would, I think, be eminently fitted for this work which, I suspect, should easily be self-financing. What is your opinion?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A chance to be “self-financing” and not get shot at, thought Vimes. They'll think they've died and gone to heaven.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Is this some sort of a reward for them, sir?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Let us say, Vimes, that where one finds one has a square peg, one should look for a square hole.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I suppose that's all right, sir. Of course, that means I'll have to promote someone—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I am sure I can leave the details to you. A small bonus for each of them would not be out of order. Ten dollars, say. Oh, there is one other thing, Vimes. And I am particularly glad that Lady Sybil is here to hear this. I am persuaded to change the title of your office.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“‘Commander’ is rather a mouthful. So I have been reminded that a word that originally meant commander was ‘Dux’.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Dux Vimes?” said Vimes. He heard Sybil gasp.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He was aware of a waiting hush around him, such as may be found between the lighting of a fuse and the bang. He rolled the word over and over in his mind.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Duke</em>?” he said. “Oh, <em class="calibre9">no</em>– Sybil, could you wait outside?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Why, Sam?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I need to discuss this very personally with his lordship.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Have a row, you mean?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“A discussion.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Lady Sybil sighed. “Oh, very well. It's up to you, Sam. You know that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There are… associated matters,” said Lord Vetinari, when the door closed behind her.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Perhaps you should hear them.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“No! You've done this to me before! We've got the Watch set up, we've almost got the numbers, the widows and orphans fund is so big the men are queueing up for the dangerous beats, and the dartboard we've got is nearly new! You can't bribe me into accepting this time! There is <em class="calibre9">nothing</em> we want!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Stoneface Vimes was a much-maligned man, I've always thought,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm not accepting– What?” Vimes skidded in mid-anger.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I've always thought that, too,” said Carrot loyally.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari stood up and went to stand by the window, looking down at Broad Way with his hands behind his back.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The thought occurs that this might be time for… reconsideration of certain ancient assumptions,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The meaning enveloped Vimes like a chilly mist.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You're offering to change history?” he said. “Is that it? Rewrite the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, my dear Vimes, history changes all the time. It is constantly being re-examined and re-evaluated, otherwise how would we be able to keep historians occupied? We can't possibly allow people with their sort of minds to walk around with time on their hands. The Chairman of the Guild of Historians is in full agreement with me, I know, that the pivotal role of your ancestor in the city's history is ripe for fresh… analysis.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Discussed it with him, have you?” said Vimes.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“<em class="calibre9">Not yet</em>.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes opened and shut his mouth a few times. The Patrician went back to his desk and picked up a sheet of paper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And, of course, other details would have to be taken care of…” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Such as?” Vimes croaked.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The Vimes coat of arms would be resurrected, of course. It would have to be. I know Lady Sybil was extremely upset when she found you weren't entitled to one. And a coronet, I believe, with knobs on—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You can take that coronet with the knobs on and—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—which I hope you will wear on formal occasions, such as, for example, the unveiling of the statue which has for so long disgraced the city by its absence.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">For once, Vimes managed to get ahead of the conversation.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Old Stoneface again?” he said. “That part of it, is it? A statue to old Stoneface?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done,” said Lord Vetinari. “Not of you, obviously. Putting up a statue to someone who tried to <em class="calibre9">stop</em> a war is not very, um, statuesque. Of course, if you had butchered five hundred of your own men out of arrogant carelessness, we'd be melting the bronze already. No. I was thinking of the first Vimes who tried to make a future and merely made history. I thought perhaps somewhere in Peach Pie Street—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They watched one another like cats, like poker players.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Top of Broad Way,” Vimes said hoarsely. “Right in front of the palace.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The Patrician glanced out of the window. “Agreed. I shall enjoy looking at it.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And right up close to the wall. Out of the wind.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Certainly.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes looked nonplussed for a moment. “We lost people—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Seventeen, caught in skirmishes of one sort or another,” said Lord Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I want—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Financial arrangements will be made for widows and dependants.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes gave up.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well done, sir!” said Carrot.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The new duke rubbed his chin.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“But that means I'll have to be married to a duchess,” he said. “That's a big fat word, <em class="calibre9">duchess</em>. And Sybil's never been very interested in that sort of thing.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I bow to your knowledge of the female psyche,” said Vetinari. “I saw her face just now. No doubt when she next takes tea with her friends, who I believe include the Duchess of Quirm and Lady Selachii, she will be entirely unmoved and not faintly smug in any way.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes hesitated. Sybil was an amazingly level-headed woman, of course, and this sort of thing… She'd left it entirely up to him, hadn't she?… This sort of thing wouldn't… Well, of <em class="calibre9">course</em> she wouldn't, she… Of course she would, wouldn't she? She wouldn't swank, she'd just be very comfortable knowing that they knew that she knew that they knew…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right,” he said, “but, look I thought only a king could make someone a duke. It's not like all these knights and barons, that's just, well, political, but something like a duke needs a—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He looked at Vetinari. And then at Carrot. Vetinari had said that he'd been <em class="calibre9">reminded</em>…</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm sure, if ever there <em class="calibre9">is</em> a king in Ankh-Morpork again, he will choose to ratify my decision,” said Vetinari smoothly. “And if there never is a king, well, I see no practical problems.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm bought and sold, aren't I?” said Vimes, shaking his head. “Bought and sold.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not at all,” said Vetinari.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I am. We all are. Even Rust. And all those poor buggers who went off to get slaughtered. We're not part of the big picture, right? We're just bought and sold.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vetinari was suddenly in front of Vimes, his chair hitting the floor behind his desk.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Really? Men marched away, Vimes. And men marched back. How glorious the battles would have been that they never had to fight!” He hesitated, and then shrugged. “And you say bought and sold? All right. But not, I think, needlessly spent.” The Patrician flashed one of those sharp, fleeting little smiles to say that something that wasn't very funny had nevertheless amused him. “<em class="calibre9">Veni</em>, <em class="calibre9">vici</em>… Vetinari.”</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Seaweed floated away on aimless currents. Apart from the driftwood, there was nothing to show that Leshp had ever been.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Seabirds wheeled. But their cries were more or less drowned out by the argument going on just above sea level.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It is entirely our wood, you nodding acquaintance of a dog!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh? Really? On your side of the island, is it? I don't <em class="calibre9">think</em> so!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It floated up!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“How do you know we didn't have some driftwood on our side of the island? Anyway, <em class="calibre9">we've</em> still got a barrel of fresh water, camel breath!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“All right! We'll share! You can have half the raft!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Aha! Aha! Want to negotiate, eh, now we've got you over a barrel?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Can we just say yes, Dad? I'm fed up with treading water!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And you'll have to do your share of the paddling.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Of course.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The birds glided and turned, white scribbles against the clear blue sky.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To Ankh-Morpork!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“To Klatch!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Down below, as the sunken mountain of Leshp settled further onto the sea bed, the Curious Squid jetted back along its curious streets. They had no idea why, at enormous intervals, their city disappeared up into the sky, but it never went away for very long. It was just one of those things. Things happened, or sometimes they didn't. The Curious Squid just assumed that it all worked out, sooner or later.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">A shark swam by. If anyone had risked placing an ear to its side, they would have heard: “Bingeley-bingeley beep! Three pee em… Eat, Hunger, Swim. Things To Do Today: Swim, Hunger, Eat. Three oh five pee em: Feeding Frenzy…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">It wasn't the most interesting of schedules, but it <em class="calibre9">was</em> very easy to organize.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Unusually, Sergeant Colon had put himself on the patrol roster. It was good to get out in the cool air. And also, for some reason, the news had got around that the Watch were somehow bound up with what seemed, in some indefinable way, to have been a victory, which meant that a Watch uniform was probably good for the odd free pint at the back door of the occasional pub.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He patrolled with Corporal Nobbs. They walked with the confident tread of men who had been places and seen things.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">With a true copper's instinct, the tread took them past Mundane Meals. Mr Goriff was cleaning the windows. He stopped when he saw them and darted inside.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Call that gratitude?” sniffed Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The man reappeared carrying two large packages.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My wife made this specially for you,” he said. He added, “She said she knew you'd be along.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon pulled aside the waxed paper.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“My word,” he said.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Special <em class="calibre9">Ankh</em>–<em class="calibre9">Morpork</em> curry,” said Mr Goriff. “Containing yellow curry powder, big lumps of swede, green peas and soggy sultanas the—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—size of eggs!” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Thank you very much,” said Colon. “How's your lad, then, Mr Goriff?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“He says you have set him an example and now he will be a watchman when he grows up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Ah, right,” said Colon happily. “That'll please Mr Vimes. You just tell him—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“In Al-Khali,” said Goriff. “He is staying with my brother.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh. Well… fair enough, then. Er… thanks for the curry, anyway.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“What sort of example do you think he meant?” said Nobby, as they strolled away.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“The good sort, obviously,” said Colon, through a mouthful of mildly spiced swede.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Chewing slowly and walking even slower, they headed towards the docks.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I was gonna write Bana a letter,” said Nobby, after a while.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, but… she thought you was a woman, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right. So she saw, like, my inner self, shorn of…” Nobby's lips moved as he concentrated, “shorn of surface thingy. That's what Angua said. Anyway, then I thought, well, her boyfriend'll be coming back, so I thought I'd be noble about it and give her up.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'cos he might be a big stroppy bloke, too,” said Sergeant Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I never thought about that, sarge.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">They paced for a while.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's a far, far better thing I do now than I have ever done before,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Right,” said Sergeant Colon. They walked on in silence for a while and he added: “O'course, that's not difficult.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I still got the hanky she gave me, look.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Very nice, Nobby.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“That's genuine Klatchian silk, that is.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, it looks very nice.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I'm never going to wash it, sarge,”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You soppy old thing, Nobby,” said Fred Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He watched Corporal Nobbs blow his nose.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“So… you're going to stop using it, are you?” he said, doubtfully.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It still bends, sarge. See?” Nobby demonstrated.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yeah, right. Silly of me to ask, really.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Overhead, the weathervanes started to creak round.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Made me a lot more understanding about women, that experience,” said Nobby.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Colon, a much-married man, said nothing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I met Verity Pushpram this afternoon,” Nobby went on, “and I said how about coming out with me tonight and I don't mind about the squint at all and I've got this expensive exotic perfume which'll totally disguise your smell, and she said bugger off and threw an eel at me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Not good, then,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Oh, <em class="calibre9">yeah</em>, sarge, 'cos she <em class="calibre9">used</em> to just cuss when she saw me. And I've still got the eel, and there's a good feed off it, so I look upon it as a very positive step.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Could be. Could be. Just so long as you give someone that scent soon, eh? Only even the people across the street are starting to complain.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Their feet, moving like bees towards a flower, had found their way to the waterfront. They looked up at the Klatchian's Head, on its spike.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“It's only wooden,” said Colon.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby said nothing.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“And it's, like, part of our traditional heritage an' that,” Colon went on, but hesitantly, as if he didn't believe his own voice.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby blew his nose again, an exercise which, with all its little arpeggios and flourishes, went on for some time.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The sergeant gave in. Some things didn't seem quite the same any more, he had to admit. “I've never really liked the place. Let's go to the Bunch of Grapes then, all right?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Nobby nodded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Anyway, the beer here is frankly piss,” said Colon.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">Lady Sybil held her handkerchief in front of her husband.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Spit!” she commanded.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Then she carefully cleaned a smut off his cheek.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“There. Now you look very—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“—ducal,” said Vimes gloomily. “I thought I'd done this once already…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“They never actually had the Convivium after all that fuss,” said Lady Sybil, picking some microscopic lint off his doublet. “It's got to be held.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You'd think if I'm a duke I wouldn't have to wear all this damn silly outfit, wouldn't you?”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, I did point out that you could wear the official ducal regalia, dear.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Yes, I've seen it. White silk stockings are not me.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, you've got the calves for them—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“I think I'll stick with the commander's costume,” said Vimes quickly.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Archchancellor Ridcully hurried up. “Ah, we're ready for you now, Lord Vi—”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Call me Sir Samuel,” said Vimes. “I can just about live with that.”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Well, we've found the Bursar in one of the attics, so I think we can make a start. If you'd take your place…”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes walked to the head of the procession, feeling every gaze on him, hearing the whispers. Maybe you could get chucked out of the peerage? He'd have to look that up. Although, considering what lords had got up to in the past, it would have to be for something really, really awful.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Still, the drawings of the statue looked good. And he'd seen what was going to go in the history books. Making history, it turned out, was quite easy. It was what got written down. It was as simple as that.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“Jolly good,” Ridcully bellowed, above the buzz. “Now, if we all step smartly and follow Lor– Com– Sir Samuel we ought to be back here for lunch no later than half past one. Is the choir ready? No one is treading on anyone else's robes? Then orf we go!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes set out at the mandatory slow walking pace. He heard the procession start up behind him. There were no doubt problems, as there always are on civic occasions which have to involve the old and deaf and the young and stupid. Several people were probably already walking in the wrong direction.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">As he stepped out into Sator Square there were the jeers and various flatulent noises and murmurs of “Oozee then, oozee finkee izz?” that are the traditional crowd responses on these occasions. But there were one or two cheers, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He tried to look straight ahead.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Silk stockings. With <em class="calibre9">garters</em>. Well, they were out. There were a lot of things he'd do for Sybil, but if garters figured anywhere in the relationship they weren't going to be on him. And everyone said he had to wear a purple robe fined with vermine. They could forget that, too.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">He'd spent a desperate hour in the library, and all that stuff about the gold knobs and silk stockings was so much marsh gas. Tradition? He'd show them tradition. What the <em class="calibre9">original</em> dukes wore, as far as he could see, was good sensible chain mall with blood on it, preferably other people's—</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There was a scream from the crowd. His head jerked round and he saw a stout woman sitting on the ground, waving her arms.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“'e stole my bag! And 'e never showed me 'is Thieves' Guild badge!”</div>
      <div class="paragraph">The procession shunted to a halt as Vimes stared at the figure legging it across Sator Square.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">“You stop right there, Sidney Pickens!” he yelled, and leapt forward.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And, of course, very few people <em class="calibre9">do</em> know how Tradition is supposed to go. There's a certain mysterious ridiculousness about it by its very nature – <em class="calibre9">once</em> there was a reason why you had to carry a posy of primroses on Soul Cake Tuesday, but <em class="calibre9">now</em> you did it because… that's what was Done. Besides, the intelligence of that creature known as a crowd is the square root of the number of people in it.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">Vimes was running, so the University choir hurried after him. And the people behind the choir saw the gap opening up and responded to the urge to fill it. And then everyone was just running, because everyone else was running.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There were occasional whimpers from those whose heart, lungs or legs weren't up to this kind of thing, and a bellow from the Archchancellor who had tried to stand firm in the face of the frantic stampede and was now having his head repeatedly trodden into the cobbles.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And apprentice thief Sidney Pickens ran because he'd taken one look over his shoulder and seen the whole of Ankh-Morpork society bearing down on him, and that sort of thing has a terrible effect on a growing lad.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">And Sam Vimes ran. He tore off his cloak and whirled away his plumed hat, and he ran and ran.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">There would be trouble later on. People would ask questions. But that was later on – for now, gloriously uncomplicated and wonderfully clean, and hopefully with never an end, under a clear sky, in a world untarnished… there was only the chase.</div>
      <br class="calibre8"/>
      <div class="paragraph">THE END</div>
    
  <hr class="calibre4"/><h4 class="calibre12">notes</h4>
    <div id="TOC_id36422037" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn1"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">1. The palms are held at right angles to one another and flapped together rather than clapped, while the flapper stares intently at the audience as if to say “We're going to have some applause here or else the whole school is in detention.”</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422051" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn2"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">2. Women always do this.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422059" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn3"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">3. The possibility that they were not guilty of anything was one that he didn't even think worthy of consideration.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422068" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn4"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">4. A term invented by the wizard Denephew Boot*, who had found that by a system of rewards and punishments he could train a dog, at the ringing of a bell, to immediately eat a strawberry meringue.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">*His parents, who were uncomplicated country people, had wanted a girl. They were expecting to call her Denise.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422082" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn5"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">5. Plain clothes was the problem. Both the men had been used to uniforms all their lives. Sergeant Colon's only suit had been bought by a man two stone lighter and ten years younger, so the buttons creaked under tension, and Nobby's idea of plain clothes was the ribbon-and-bell-bedecked costume he wore as a leading member of the Ankh-Morpork Folk Dance and Song Society. Small children had followed them in the street to see where the show was going to be.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422094" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn6"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">6. Constable Visit-The-Ungodly-With-Explanatory-Pamphlets was a good copper, Vimes always said, and that was his highest term of praise. He was an Omnian with his countrymen's almost pathological interest in evangelical religion and spent all his wages on pamphlets; he even had his own printing press. The results were handed out to anyone interested and everyone who wasn't interested as well. Even Detritus couldn't clear a crowd faster than Visit, Vimes said. And on his days off he could be seen tramping the streets with his colleague, Smite-TheUnbeliever-With-Cunning-Arguments. So far they hadn't made a single convert. Vimes thought that Visit was probably a really nice man underneath it all, but somehow he could never face the task of finding out.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422109" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn7"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">7. And would not, therefore, be officially burgled. Ankh-Morpork had a very direct approach to the idea of insurance. When the middle-man was cut out, that wasn't a figure of speech.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422119" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn8"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">8. It is a long-cherished tradition among a certain type of military thinker that huge casualties are the main thing. If they are on the other side then this is a valuable bonus.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422129" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn9"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">9. One of the universal rules of happiness is: always be wary of any helpful item that weighs less than its operating manual.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422138" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn10"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">10. Thinking up good names was, oddly enough, one area where Leonard Quirm's genius tended to give up.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422147" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn11"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">11. Except in the particular case of Sidney Lopsides, who was paid two dollars a day from City funds to wear a sack over his head. It wasn't that he was spectacularly deformed, as such, it was merely that anyone who saw him spent the rest of the day with an unnerving feeling that they were upside down.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422158" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn12"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">12. Sidney Lopsides again.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422167" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn13"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">13. Jugglers will tell you that juggling with items that are identical is always easier than a mixture of all shapes and sizes. This is even the case with chainsaws, although of course when the juggler misses the first chainsaw it is only the <em class="calibre9">start</em> of his problems. Some more will be along very shortly.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422181" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn14"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">14. Corporal Nobbs's appearance could best be summarized this way.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">One of the minor laws of the narrative universe is that any homely featured man who has, for some reason, to disguise himself as a woman will apparently become attractive to some otherwise perfectly sane men with, as the ancient scrolls say, hilarious results.</div>
      <div class="paragraph">In this case the laws were fighting against the fact of Corporal Nobby Nobbs, and gave up.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422199" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn15"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">15. And Mr Harris of the Blue Cat Club. His admission caused a lot of argument in the Guild, who knew competition when they saw it, but Mrs Palm overruled opposition on the basis, she said, that unnatural acts were only natural.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422210" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn16"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">16. Usually because they suspect the joke's on them.</div>
    
    <div id="TOC_id36422218" class="calibre8"><a id="_ftn17"></a></div>
      <div class="paragraph">17. Although of course wizards aren't allowed to, because they're not supposed to have grandchildren.</div>
    
  </div>

{% endraw %}

