---
layout: page
title: "Salesman Tale"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/zelazny-salesman-tale_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216753">Roger Zelazny</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Roger Zelazny <br class="calibre6"/>
  Salesman Tale <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216928" class="calibre7"></div>

<div class="paragraph">Glad I'd planned on leaving Merlin in the Crystal Cave for a long while. 
Glad he didn't stay the entire time. As I interrupted our trumped conversation 
by kicking over my glass of iced tea and shouting "Shit! I spilled it-" I turned 
over the Trump of Doom in my good hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Junkyard Forest. Nice sketch, that. Though it didn't matter what it 
depicted, which is why I'd had Merlin fan the cards face down and had drawn one 
at random. That was for show, to confuse the Pattern. All of them led to places 
within spitting distance of the Crystal Cave- which had been the real reason for 
their existence in the first place. Their only purpose had been to draw Merlin 
into the Cave's orbit, at which point a blue crystal warning system was to have 
alerted me. The plan was for me to get there in a hurry and find a way to make 
him a prisoner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Unfortunately, I hadn't gotten the message when he'd drawn the Sphinx to 
escape from mom. Her neurotoxins had canceled a necessary trigger signal from 
his nervous system--just one of the many ways she's messed up my plans without 
half-trying. Didn't matter, though, in the long run. I got Merlin there, anyway. 
Only... everything changed after that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke! You fool!" The Pattern's message blasted through me like the closing 
number at a rock concert. But the Junkyard Forest had already come clear, and I 
was trumping out, before the Pattern realized that tea rather than my blood was 
flowing upon it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I rose to my feet as the Pattern faded, and I moved forward amid the rusty 
sawblade bushes, the twisted girder trees, the gaily colored beds of broken 
bottles. I began to run, blood spilling from the slashed palm of my left hand. I 
didn't even take the time to bind it. Once the Pattern recovered from its shock 
and discovered itself undamaged, it was going to begin scanning Shadow for me, 
for the others. They'd be safe within the ambit of the other Pattern, and that 
left me. The walls of the Crystal Cave had the effect of blocking every 
paraphysical phenomenon I'd been able to test them for, and I'd a hunch they'd 
screen me from the Pattern's scrutiny as well. It was just a matter of my 
getting there before it shadow-shuffled this far.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I increased my pace. I'd stayed in shape. I could run. Past rusting cars 
and swirls of bedsprings, broken tiles, shattered crates... Down alleys of 
ashes, up trails of bottlecaps and pulltabs... Alert. Waiting. Waiting for the 
world to spin and waver, to hear the voice of the Pattern announce, "Gotcha!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I rounded a bend and caught a glimpse of blue in the distance. The Junkyard 
Forest--result of an ancient Shadow storm--ended abruptly as I entered upon a 
downward slope, to be succeeded within paces by a wood of the more normal 
variety.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Here, I heard a few birdcalls as I passed, and the humming of insects, 
above the steady striking of my feet upon the earth. The sky was overcast, and I 
could tell nothing of temperature or wind because of my activity. The shimmering 
mound of blue grew larger. I maintained my pace. By now, the others should be 
safe, if they'd made it at all. Hell! By now they should be well out of harm's 
way. Just a little while in this time-stream was a much longer time back on the 
main drag. They could be sitting around eating and joking by now. Even napping. 
I bit back a curse to save breath. That also meant that the Pattern could have 
been searching for even longer than it seemed... Larger, even larger now, the 
blue ridge. I decided to see how well my finishing spurt had held up, and I went 
into high gear and held it there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The earth and air were vibrated by what seemed a rumble of thunder. It 
could be a reaction of the irate design on having finally located me. I could 
also just be a rumble of thunder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I kept pumping, and moments later, it seemed, I was braking so as not to 
smash up against that crystal base. No lightning bolts yet, and I scrambled for 
hand and toeholds--never having tried climbing this face of it before--as my 
lungs worked like a bellows and a light rain began to fall, mingling with a 
layer of my perspiration. I left bloody smears on the stone, but that should 
soon wash away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Achieving the summit, I rushed to its opening on all fours and entered feet 
first, hanging, then dropping into the dark interior despite the presence of a 
ladder. Haste was all. Not until I stood within that shadowy blueness, still 
puffing, did I feel at all safe. As soon as I caught my breath I allowed myself 
to laugh. I had done it. I had escaped the Pattern. I walked about the chamber 
beating upon my thighs and slapping the walls. A victory such as this tasted 
good, and I would not let it pass unmarked. I hustled back to the larder, 
located a bottle of wine, opened it, and took a drink. Then I repaired to a side 
cavern which still contained a sleeping bag, seated myself upon it, and 
continued to chuckle as I reenacted in my mind our experience there at the 
primal Pattern. My lady Nayda had been so magnificent. So had Merlin, for that 
matter. Now...</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wondered whether the Pattern really held grudges. That is, how long would 
it be before it was safe to me to go forth without feeling in imminent peril? No 
real way to tell. Unfortunate. Still, the Pattern must have too much to occupy 
it to behave in any manner similar to those people who hung about in its 
vicinity-i.e.,  Amberites. Mustn't it? I took another drink. I might be here for 
a long time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I would use a spell to alter my appearance, I decided. When I left here I 
would have dark hair and a beard (over the beginnings of a real beard), gray 
eyes, a straight nose, higher cheekbones, and a smaller chin. I would seem 
taller and a lot thinner. I would switch from my usual bright ones to dark 
garments. Not just some light, cosmetic spell either. It would have to be a 
strong one, with depth and substance to it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Musing upon this, I got up and went in search of food. I found some tinned 
beef and biscuits, and I used a small spell to heat a can of soup. No, that was 
not a violation of the physical laws of the place. The crystal walls block 
sendings in and out, but my spells came in with me and operated as normal in the 
interior.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Eating, I thought again of Nayda, of Merlin, and of Coral. Whatever was 
happening to them--good or bad--time was favoring them in getting it done. Even 
if I stayed here for but a short while developments back home would be 
incommensurate with time's apparent lapse here. And what kind of time did the 
Pattern really keep? All of them, I supposed--that is to say, its own--but I 
also felt it to be especially keyed to the mainline of its flow in Amber. In 
fact, I was almost sure of it, since that's where the action was. So if I wanted 
to be back in action quickly I should just stay here long enough for my hand to 
heal.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But really, how badly could the Pattern want me? How much would I actually 
matter to it? What was I in its view? King of a minor Golden Circle realm. 
Assassin of one Prince of Amber. Son of the man who had once sought to destroy 
it... I winced at that, but reflected that the Pattern had let me live my entire 
life up to now without reprisal for dad's actions. And my part in the current 
business had been minimal. Coral had seemed its main concern, and then Merlin. 
Perhaps I was being ultra-cautious. Likely, it had dismissed me from its main 
considerations the moment I had vanished. Still, I wasn't going to step out of 
here without that disguise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I finished eating and sipped at the wine. And when I did step out? What 
exactly would I be about then? Numerous possibilities tumbled through my mind. I 
also began yawning and the sleeping bag looked very good. Lightning flashed, 
blue wave through the walls. Then the thunder came, like surf. Tomorrow then. 
Tomorrow I would plan...  I crawled inside and got comfortable. In a moment, I 
was gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I've no idea how long I slept. On rising, I made the rounds to establish a 
security habit, ran through a vigorous routine of exercises, cleaned myself up, 
then ate a leisurely breakfast. I felt better than I had the day before, and my 
hand had already commenced healing. Then I sat and stared at the wall, probably 
for hours. What was my best course of action?</div>
<div class="paragraph">I could rush back to Kashfa and the kingship, I could hunt after my 
friends, I could simply go underground, lie low, and investigate until I learned 
what was going on. It was a question of priorities. What was the most important 
thing I could do for everybody concerned? I thought about it till lunchtime and 
then I ate again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Afterwards, I took up my small sketchpad and a pencil and I began recalling 
a certain lady, feature by feature. I fiddled with it all afternoon, to pass the 
time, though I knew I had her right. When I knocked off for dinner the next 
day's activities had already taken shape in my mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next morning my injury was considerably diminished, and I conjured 
myself a mirror upon a smooth surface of the wall. Using an oil lamp so as not 
to waste an illumination spell, I conjured that tall, dark, lean figure upon my 
own form, cast those aquiline features upon my own--complete with beard--and I 
looked upon my work and saw that it was good. I transformed the appearance of my 
garments then, also, to keep the new me company--this latter a single spell. I'd 
have to fetch real garments as soon as I could. No use wasting a high-powered 
working on something that trivial. I did this all first thing, because I'd 
wanted to wear the guise all day, let it soak in, see whether there were any 
hidden weaknesses to my working. Then I wanted to sleep in it, for the same 
reason.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That afternoon I took up the sketchpad again. I studied my pervious day's 
work, then turned to a fresh page and executed a Trump. It felt exactly right. 
The next morning, following the usual routine, I reviewed myself in the mirror 
again, was satisfied, and mounted the ladder to emerge from the cave. It was a 
damp, cool morning with a few blue breaks in the cloud cover high overhead. 
Could rain again. But what the hell did I care? I was on my way out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I reached for my pad, then paused. I was reminded of other Trumps I had 
dealt with over the years, and of something else. I withdrew my deck of cards. 
Uncasing them, I moved slowly through until I came to the sad one--dad's. I had 
kept his card for sentiment's sake, not utility. He looked just as I remembered 
him, but I hadn't sought it for purposes of reminiscence. It was because of the 
item he wore at his side.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I focussed on Werewindle, by all accounts a magical blade, in some way 
related to Corwin's Greyswandir. And I recalled Merlin's telling me how his 
father had summoned Greyswandir to him in Shadow, following his escape from the 
dungeons of Amber. There was some special affinity between him and that weapon. 
I wondered. Now that the pace had quickened and new adventures were looming, it 
would probably be advisable to face things prepared with the appropriate steel. 
Though dad was dead, Werewindle was somehow alive. Though I could not reach my 
father, might I somehow reach his blade, its whereabouts, of last report, 
somewhere in the Courts of Chaos? I focussed my attention upon it, calling it 
with my mind. It seemed that I felt something, and when I touched it the spot it 
occupied on the card seemed to be growing cold. I reached. Farther. harder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And then there was clarity and nearness and the feeling of a cold, alien 
intelligence regarding me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Werewindle," I said softly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">If there can be the sound of an echo in the absence of a prior sound this 
is what I heard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Son of Brand," came a reverberation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Call me Luke."            There was silence. Then, "Luke," came the 
vibration.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I reached forward, caught hold of it, and drew it toward me. The scabbard 
came with it. I drew back. I held it in my hands then and I drew it. It flowed 
like molten gold around the design it wore. I raised it, extended it, executed a 
cut. It felt right. It felt perfect. It felt as if enormous power lay behind its 
every movement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I said, and the echo of laughter came and went.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised my pad and opened it to the appropriate page, hoping it was a good 
time to make the call. I regarded the lady's delicate features, her unfocussed 
gaze that somehow indicated the breadth and depth of her vision. After a few 
moments, the page grew cold beneath my fingertips, and my drawing took on a 
3-dimensional quality, seemed faintly to stir.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes?" came her voice.            "Your Highness." I said. "However you may 
perceive these things, I want you to know that I have intentionally altered my 
appearance. I was hoping that--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke," she said, "of course I recognize you--your own Majesty now," her 
gaze still unfocussed. "You are troubled."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Indeed I am."            "You wish to come through?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If it is appropriate and convenient."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Certainly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She extended her hand. I reached forward, taking it lightly in my own, as 
her studio came clear, banishing gray skies and crystal hill, I took a step 
toward her and I was there. Immediately, I dropped to my knees, unclasped my 
swordbelt and offered her my blade. In the distance, I could hear sounds of 
hammering and sawing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rise," she said, touching my shoulder. "Come and be seated. Have a cup of 
tea with me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I got to my feet and followed her to a table in the corner. She took off 
her dusty apron and hung it on a peg on the wall. As she prepared the tea I 
regarded the small army of statues which lined one wall and bivouacked in random 
cluster about the enormous room-large, small, realistic, impressionistic, 
beautiful, grotesque. She worked mainly in clay, though a few smaller ones were 
of stone and there were furnaces at the room's far end, though these were cold 
now. Several metal mobiles of unusual shape were suspended from ceiling beams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When she joined me again she reached out and touched my left hand, locating 
the ring she had given me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, I value the Queen's protection," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Even though you are now a monarch yourself from a country on friendly 
terms with us?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Even so," I said. "So much so, in fact, that I wish to reciprocate in 
part."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not at all certain that Amber is aware of recent events to which I 
have been party or of which I have knowledge, which may affect her welfare. That 
is, unless Merlin has been in touch recently."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Merlin has not been in touch," she said. "If you have information vital to 
the realm, though, perhaps you ought to give it to Random direct, He's not here 
just now, but I could reach him for you via Trump."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said. "I know he doesn't like me at all or trust me, as his 
brother's killer and a friend of the man who has sworn to destroy Amber. I am 
sure he would love to see me deposed and some puppet on the throne of Kashfa. I 
suppose I must have things out with him one day, but this isn't the day. I've 
too much else going on just now. But the information transcends local politics. 
It involves Amber and the Courts of Chaos, the Pattern and the Logrus, the death 
of Swayvill and Merlin's possible succession to the throne in the Courts--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're serious!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You bet. I know he'll listen to you. And he'll even understand why I told 
you. Let me avoid him this way. There are big events in the offing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tell me," she said, raising her cup.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So I did, including everything Merlin had told me, up through the 
confrontation at the primal Pattern and my flight to the Crystal Cave. We went 
through the entire pot of tea in the process, and when I was finished we just 
sat for a time in silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally, she sighed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You have charged me to deliver major intelligence," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yet I feel it is but a small part of much greater developments."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How's that?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A few small things I have heard, known, guessed at, and perhaps 
dreamed-and a few, I suppose, I simply fear. Hardly a coherent shape. Yet 
enough, perhaps, to query the powers of the earth I work with. Yes. Now that I 
have thought it I must try it, of course. At a time such as this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She rose slowly, paused, and gestured high.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That shall be the Tongue," she said, and a draft stirred one of the 
mobiles causing it to produce many tones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She crossed the studio to the righthand wall--small figure in gray and 
green, chestnut hair down to the middle of her back--and ran her fingers lightly 
over the sculpted figure that stood there. Finally, selecting a broad-faced 
statue with a narrow torso, she began pushing it toward the center of the room. 
I was on my feet and moving in an instant.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let me do that for you, Your Highness."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She shook her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Call me Vialle," she said. "And no, I must position them myself. This one 
is named Memory."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She placed it below and somewhat to the northwest of the Tongue. Then she 
moved to a knot of figures and selected a thin one with slightly parted lips, 
which she placed to the south on Tongue's compass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">".And this is Desire," she stated.            Quickly locating a third-a 
tall, squinting figure-she placed it to the northeast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Caution," she went on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A lady, her right hand boldly extended, went to the west.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Risk," she continued.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To the east she positioned another lady, both arms spread wide.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Heart," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To the southwest went a high-domed, shaggy-browed philosopher. "Head," she 
said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">...And to the southeast a smiling lady-impossible to say whether her hand 
was raised in greeting or to deliver a blow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Chance," she finished, fitting her into the circle which had come to 
remind me both of Stonehenge and of Easter Island.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bring two chairs," she said, "and place them here and here,"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She indicated positions to the north and south of her circle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I did as she'd said, and she seated herself in the northern-most chair, 
behind a final figure she had placed: Foresight. I took my place back of Desire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Be silent now," she instructed</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then she sat still, hands in her lap, for several minutes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Finally, "At the deepest level," she said, "what threatens the peace?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">From my left, Caution seemed to speak, though the Tongue chimed his words 
overhead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A redistribution of ancient powers," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In what manner?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That which was hidden becomes known and is moved about" answered Risk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are both Amber and the Courts involved?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Indeed," answered Desire, from before me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ancient powers," she said. "How ancient?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Before there was an Amber, they were," stated Memory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Before there was a Jewel of Judgement--the Eye of the Serpent?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Memory responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She drew a sudden breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Their number?" she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Eleven," Memory replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She grew pale at that, but I held my silence as she had instructed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those responsible for this stirring of ashes," she said then, "what do 
they wish?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A return to the glory of days gone by," Desire stated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Could this end be realized?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Foresight replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Could it be averted?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Foresight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"At peril," Caution added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How might one begin?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Query the guardians," Head stated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How bad is the situation?"            "It has already begun," Head 
answered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And the danger is already present," said Risk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So is opportunity," said Chance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of what sort?" Vialle inquired.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There came a sound from across the room as my scabbard and blade slid to 
the floor from where I had leaned them against the wall. Vialle stared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My weapon," I said, 'just slipped."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Name it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was my father's sword, called Werewindle."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know of it." Then, "This man, Luke," she said, "there is something about 
his blade and its sister weapon that figures in all of this. I do not know their 
stories, though."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, they are connected," said Memory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They were created in a similar fashion at near to the same time, and they 
partake of the powers of which we have spoken," Memory replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will there be a conflict?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," said Foresight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"On what scale?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Foresight was silent. Chance laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I do not understand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The laughter of Chance is uncertainty," Head responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will Luke figure in the conflict?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Foresight answered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Should he seek the guardians?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He must try," said Heart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And if he fails?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Prince approaches even now who knows more of these matters," said Head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who is that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A prisoner freed," Head replied.        "Who?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He wears a silver rose," said Head. "He bears the other blade."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Vialle raised her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Have you any questions?" she asked me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. But I doubt I'd get an answer if I asked whether we'll win."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chance laughed as Vialle rose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She let me help move the statues back into place. Then, seated once more, I 
said to her, "'Seek the guardians?'"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There is a custodian--possibly two," she replied. "A self-exiled Prince of 
Amber and his sister have guarded a portion of this power for a long while. It 
would seem in order to see that they still live, still discharge the duty."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Self-exiled? Why?"            "Personal reasons, involving the late King."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where are they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I do not know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then how could we find them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There is a Trump."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She rose and moved to a small chest of drawers. Opening one, she withdrew a 
boxed set of cards.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Slowly, she counted dawn from the top of the deck and removed one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When she returned she presented me with the card, portrait of a slim man 
with hair the color of rust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"His name is Delwin," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You think I should just call him and ask whether he still has whatever he 
had?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"State quickly that you are not of Amber," she told me, "but give your 
lineage. Ask whether his stewardship of the spikards remains intact. Try to find 
out where he is, or to go through and discuss it face to face if you can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Right," I said, not wanting to tell her that I had spoken--very 
briefly--with him before in seeking allies in my war against Amber. He'd 
dismissed me out of hand, but I didn't want to stir Vialle's memories of those 
days. So I simply said, "Okay. I'll give it a try."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I decided to fast-talk him at first, to give him time to think, to realize 
that I was not alone, and not to let slip anything of our earlier exchange. My 
altered appearance should help in this, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I reached for contact.</div>
<div class="paragraph">First, the coldness, then a feeling of personality suddenly alert.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who is it?" I felt the question even before the likeness took on depth and 
life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke Reynard, otherwise known as Rinaldo," I answered, as the card was 
suddenly animated and I felt his scrutiny, "King of Kashfa and B.S. in Business 
Management, University of California at Berkeley." Our gazes locked. He seemed 
neither belligerent nor friendly. "I wanted to know whether your stewardship of 
the spikards remains intact."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Luke-Rinaldo," he said, "just what is your concern in this, and how did 
you come to learn of the matter?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"While I am not of Amber," I replied, "my father was. I know it is soon to 
become a matter of concern in that place because of Merlin--son of 
Corwin--apparently being in direct line for the succession to the throne in the 
Courts of Chaos."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know who Merlin is," Delwin sated. "Who is your father?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Prince Brand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And your mother?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Lady Jasra, formerly Queen of Kashfa. Now, might we talk about this 
matter a little?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Delwin said. "We may not."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He moved his hand as if to break the contact.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wait!" I said. "Do you have a microwave oven?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He hesitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a box-like device that can warm a meal in a matter of minutes. I've 
worked out a general spell to allow one to operate in most of Shadow. Wake up in 
the middle of the night with a taste for a steaming hot tuna casserole? Take one 
out of the freezer, unwrap it, and pop it in. What's a freezer? Glad you asked. 
It's another box, with eternal winter inside. Store meals in there, take one out 
and zap it in the mike whenever the fancy hits. And yes, I can supply the 
freezer, too. You don't want to talk spikards, let's talk business. I can give 
you a deal on these devices, in quantity, that will meet or beat the price of 
anyone else capable of supplying them--and I don't think it would be an easy 
thing to find another supplier. But that's not all I can do for you--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry," said Delwin. "No solicitors either." His hand moved again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wait!" I cried. "I'll make you an offer you can't refuse!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He broke the connection.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come back," I willed after his image, but it went 2-dimensional and warmed 
to room temperature again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry," I said to Vialle. "I gave it my best shot, but he wasn't buying 
any."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To tell the truth, I didn't think you'd hold him even that long. But I 
could tell he was interested in you until you mentioned your mother. Then 
something changed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't be the first time," I said. "I've a mind to try him again later."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In that case, keep the Trump."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't need it, Vialle. I'll make my own when the time comes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are an artist and a Trump master?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I do paint. Fairly seriously sometimes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then you must see all of my works while you wait. I'd value your opinion."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My pleasure," I said. 'You mean while I wait--"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"--for Corwin."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah, just so. Thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You can be the first to use one of the new rooms. We've been doing a lot 
of reconstruction and remodeling since the Logrus and the Pattern had their 
confrontation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I heard about it," I said. "Very well. I wonder when he'll arrive?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soon, I feel," she said. "I'll summon a servant to get you settled now. 
Another will bring you to dine with me later, and we can discuss art."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That will be fine."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wondered where all of this was going to lead. It seemed that the big 
picture was about to change drastically again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Glad Delwin wasn't interested in the microwave oven, though. The spell 
would have been a bitch to work out.</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

