---
layout: page
title: "Prologue to Trumps Of Doom"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/zelazny-prologue-to-trumps-of-doom_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216753">Roger Zelazny</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><div class="calibre5"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre6">
  Roger Zelazny <br class="calibre7"/>
  Prologue to Trumps Of Doom <br class="calibre7"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216928" class="calibre8"></div>
<br class="calibre8"/><div class="paragraph">It was almost too easy. A turning, a twisting, a doubling back...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And then he faced a rough, slanted wall, looked up and saw the shaft. He 
commenced climbing.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It was no longer easy. A swaying sensation began--faint, then distinct-as 
if he were mounting into the uppermost branches of a tall tree. His way 
brightened end then dimmed, repeatedly, in no perceptible pattern. After a 
time, 
his eyes ached. Images doubled, wavered...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When the way grew suddenly level he doubted his vision, till his extended 
hand assured him that there was indeed a choice of passages.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He leaned and moved his head into each of these. The faint musical sound 
seemed slightly louder in the one to the left, and he followed it. Of that, at 
least, he was certain.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Now his way rose and fell. He climbed up, he climbed down. The 
brightening 
and dimming continued, only now the brightness was brighter and the dimness 
dimmer.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">And the sensations of external movement had nit abated. The floor of the 
tunnel seemed to ripple beneath his feet, the walls and roof to contract and 
expand. He stumbled, caught himself. Stumbled again...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">At the next turning the sounds grew slightly louder, and he realized that 
they were not a tune, but rather a totally random concatenation of noises.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He climbed. He descended. The passageway shrank, and finally he crawled.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sensations of movement increased. At times he seemed to be spinning; 
other times, it felt as if he were falling into an enormous abyss.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The flashes of light now drove nails of pain into skull. He began to 
hallucinate. Faces and figures. Flames. Or were they hallucinations?</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He felt the first faint pulsation upon his left wrist...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">How long had he been moving? His clothes were already in tatters and he 
bled, painlessly, from a dozen scrapes and lacerations.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He descended a well and emerged somehow upward onto a floor. Mad laughter 
rang about him, ceasing only when he realized it to be his own.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The sounds grew even louder, until it lefts as if he negotiated a gallery 
of demonic bells-- wild, out of phage, their vibrations beating against him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Thinking became painful. He knew that he must not stop, that he must not 
turn back, that he must not take any of the lesser turnings where the sounds 
came softer. Any of these courses would prove fatal. He reduced this to one 
imperative: Continue.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">Again, a pulsing at his wrist, and a faint, slow movement...</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He gritted his teeth when he saw that he must climb once more, for her 
limbs had grown heavy. Each movement seemed as if it were performed underwater 
-
slowly, requiring more than normal effort.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A screen of smoke offered frightening resistance. He drove himself 
against 
it for an age before he passed through and felt his movement become easy once 
again. Six times this occurred, and each time the pressure against him was 
greater.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When he crawled out, drooling and dripping blood, on the other side of 
the 
chamber from which he had entered, his eyes darted wildly and could not fix 
upon 
the small, dark figure which stood before him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"You are a fool," it told him.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">It took some time for the words to register, and when they did he lacked 
the strength with which to reply.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"A lucky fool," it went on, darkness flowing about it like wings. (Or 
were 
they really wings?) "I had not judged you ready to essay the Logrus for a long 
while yet."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He closed his eyes against this speaker, and an image of the route he had 
followed danced within his mind's seeing, like a bright, torn web folding in a 
breeze.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"...And a fool not to have borne a blade and so enchanted it... or a 
mirror, a chalice, or a wand to brace your magic. No, all I see is a piece of 
rope. You should have waited, for more instruction, for greater strength; What 
say you?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">He raised himself from the floor, and a mad light danced within his eyes.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"It was time," he said. "I was ready."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"And a cord! What a half-ass-luck!"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">The cord, glowing now, tightened about his throat.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">When the other released it, the dark one coughed and nodded.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Perhaps you knew what you were doing--on that count..." it muttered. "Is 
it really time? You will be leaving?"</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">A dark cloak fell upon his shoulders. He heard the splash of water within 
a 
flask.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Here."</div>
  <div class="paragraph">As he drank, the cord wrapped itself about his wrist and vanished.</div>
  <div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Uncle." he said, after several swallows. 
The dark figure shook its head. 
"Impulsive," it said. "Just like your father."</div><br class="calibre8"/>

</div>

{% endraw %}

