---
layout: page
title: "Maskerade"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/pratchett-maskerade_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36215828">Terry Pratchett</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36381589">THE END</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Terry Pratchett <br class="calibre6"/>
  Maskerade <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36216937" class="calibre7"></div>

  
   <div class="paragraph">DEDICATION</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My thanks to the people who showed me that opera was stranger than I could imagine. I can best repay their kindness by not mentioning their names here.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wind howled. The storm crackled on the mountains. Lightning prodded the crags like an old man trying to get an elusive blackberry pip out of his false teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Among the hissing furze bushes a fire blazed, the flames driven this way and that by the gusts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An eldritch voice shrieked: 'When shall we... two... meet again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Thunder rolled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A rather more ordinary voice said: 'What'd you go and shout that for? You made me drop my toast in the fire.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sat down again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Esme. I was just doing it for... you know... old time's sake... Doesn't roll off the tongue, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd just got it nice and brown, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, you didn't have to shout.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, I ain't deaf. You could've just asked me in a normal voice. And I'd have said, "Next Wednesday." '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just you cut me another slice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded, and turned her head. 'Magrat, cut Granny ano... oh. Mind wandering there for a minute. I'll do it myself, shall I??</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah!' said Granny Weatherwax, staring into the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound for a while but the roar of the wind and the sound of Nanny Ogg cutting bread, which she did with about as much efficiency as a man trying to chainsaw a mattress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought it'd cheer you up, coming up here,' she said after a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really.' It wasn't a question.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take you out of yourself, sort of thing...' Nanny went on, watching her friend carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mm?' said Granny, still staring moodily at the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh dear, thought Nanny. I shouldn't've said <em class="calibre8">that.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The point was... well, the point was that Nanny Ogg was worried. Very worried. She wasn't at all sure that her friend wasn't... well... going... well, sort of... in a manner of speaking... well... black...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew it happened, with the really powerful ones. And Granny Weatherwax was pretty damn' powerful. She was probably an even more accomplished witch now than the infamous Black Aliss, and everyone knew what had happened to <em class="calibre8">her </em>at the finish. Pushed into her own stove by a couple of kids, and everyone said it was a damn' good thing, even if it took a whole week to clean the oven.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Aliss, up until that terrible day, had terrorized the Ramtops. She'd become so good at magic that there wasn't room in her head for anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They said weapons couldn't pierce her. Swords bounced off her skin. They said you could hear her mad laughter a mile off, and of course, while mad laughter was always part of a witch's stock‑in‑trade in necessary circumstances, this was <em class="calibre8">insane </em>mad laughter, the worst kind. And she turned people into gingerbread and had a house made of frogs. It had been very nasty, towards the end. It always was, when a witch went bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Sometimes, of course, they didn't go bad. They just went... somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's intellect needed something to <em class="calibre8">do</em>. She did not take kindly to boredom. She'd take to her bed instead and send her mind out Borrowing, inside the head of some forest creature, listening with its ears, seeing with its eyes. That was all very well for general purposes, but she was too good at it. She could stay away longer than anyone Nanny Ogg had ever heard of.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One day, almost certainly, she wouldn't bother to come back... and this was the worst time of the year, with the geese honking and rushing across the sky every night, and the autumn air crisp and inviting. There was something terribly tempting about that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg reckoned she knew what the cause of the problem was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Saw Magrat the other day,' she ventured, looking sidelong at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no reaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's looking well. Queening suits her.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny groaned inwardly. If Granny couldn't even be bothered to make a nasty remark, then she was <em class="calibre8">really </em>missing Magrat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg had never believed it at the start, but Magrat Garlick, wet as a sponge though she was half the time, had been dead right about one thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three was a natural number for witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And they'd lost one. Well, not lost, exactly. Magrat was queen now, and queens were hard to mislay. But... that meant that there were only two of them instead of three.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When you had three, you had one to run around getting people to make up when there'd been a row. Magrat had been good for that. Without Magrat, Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax got on one another's nerves. With her, all three had been able to get on the nerves of absolutely everyone else in the whole world, which had been a lot more fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was no having Magrat back... at least, to be precise about it, there was no having Magrat back <em class="calibre8">yet.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because, while three was a good number for witches... it had to be the <em class="calibre8">right </em>sort of three. The right sort of... <em class="calibre8">types.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg found herself embarrassed even to think about this, and this was unusual because embarrassment normally came as naturally to Nanny as altruism comes to a cat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As a witch, she naturally didn't believe in any occult nonsense of any sort. But there were one or two truths down below the bedrock of the soul which had to be faced, and right in among them was this business of, well, of the maiden, the mother and the... other one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There. She'd put words around it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, it was nothing but an <em class="calibre8">old</em> superstition and belonged to the unenlightened days when 'maiden' or 'mother' or... the other one... encompassed every woman over the age of twelve or so, except maybe for nine months of her life. These days, any girl bright enough to count and sensible enough to take Nanny's advice could put off being at least one of them for quite some time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even so... it was an <em class="calibre8">old</em> superstition–older than books, older than writing–and beliefs like that were heavy weights on the rubber sheet of human experi­ence, tending to pull people into their orbit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Magrat had been married for three months. That ought to mean she was out of the first category. At least‑ Nanny twitched her train of thought on to a branch line–she <em class="calibre8">probably </em>was. Oh, <em class="calibre8">surely. </em>Young Verence had sent off for a helpful manual. It had pictures in it, and numbered parts. Nanny knew this because she had sneaked into the royal bedroom while visiting one day, and had spent an instructive ten minutes drawing moustaches and spectacles on some of the figures. Surely even Magrat and Verence could hardly fail to... No, they must have worked it out, even though Nanny had heard that Verence had been seen enquiring of people where he might buy a couple of false moustaches. It'd not be long before Magrat was eligible for the second category, even if they were both slow readers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, Granny Weatherwax made a great play of her independence and self‑reliance. But the point about that kind of stuff was that you needed someone around to be proudly independent and self‑reliant <em class="calibre8">at</em>. People who didn't need people needed people around to know that they were the kind of people who didn't need people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was like hermits‑ There was no point freezing your nadgers off on top of some mountain while communing with the Infinite unless you could rely on a lot of impressionable young women to come along occasionally and say 'Gosh' .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...They needed to be three again. Things got exciting, when there were three of you. There were rows, and adventures, and things for Granny to get angry about, and she was only happy when she was angry. In fact, it seemed to Nanny, she was only Granny Weatherwax when she was angry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes. They needed to be three.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or else... it was going to be grey wings in the night, or the clang of the oven door...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The manuscript fell apart as soon as Mr Goatberger picked it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't even on proper paper. It had been written on old sugar bags, and the backs of envelopes, and bits of out‑of­-date calendar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grunted, and grabbed a handful of the musty pages to throw them on the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A word caught his eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He read it, and his eye was dragged to the end of the sentence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he read to the end of the page, doubling back a few times because he hadn't quite believed what he'd just read.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned the page. And then he turned back. And then he read on. At one point he took a ruler out of his drawer and looked at it thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened his drinks cabinet. The bottle tinkled cheerfully on the edge of the glass as he tried to pour himself a drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he stared out of the window at the Opera House on the other side of the road. A small figure was brushing the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he said, 'Oh, my.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally he went to the door and said, 'Could you come in here, Mr Cropper?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His chief printer entered, clutching a sheaf of proofs. 'We're going to have to get Mr Cripslock to engrave page 11 again,' he said mournfully. 'He's spelled "famine" with seven letters–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Read this,' said Goatberger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was just off to lunch–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Read this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Guild agreement says–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Read this and see if you still have an appetite.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Cropper sat down with bad grace and glanced at the first page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he turned to the second page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while he opened the desk drawer and pulled out a ruler, which he looked at thoughtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've just read about Bananana Soup Surprise?' said Goatberger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You wait till you get to Spotted Dick.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, my old granny used to make Spotted Dick–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not to this recipe,' said Goatberger, with absolute certainty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cropper fumbled through the pages. 'Blimey! Do you think any of this stuff works?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who cares? Go down to the Guild. right now and hire all the engravers that're free. Preferably elderly ones.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I've still got the Grune, June, August and Spune predictions for next year's Almanack to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Forget them. Use some old ones.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'People'll notice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They've never noticed before,' said Mr Goatberger. 'You know the drill. Astounding Rains of Curry in Klatch, Amazing Death of the Seriph of Ee, Plague of Wasps in Howondaland. This is a lot more important.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared unseeing out of the window again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Considerably 
    </em>
    more important.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he dreamed the dream of all those who publish books, which was to have so much gold in your pockets that you would have to employ two people just to hold your trousers up.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The huge, be‑columned, gargoyle‑haunted face of Ankh­-Morpork's Opera House was there, in front of Agnes Nitt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped. At least, <em class="calibre8">most</em> of Agnes stopped. There was a lot of Agnes. It took some time for outlying regions to come to rest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, this was it. At last. She could go in, or she could go away. It was what they called a life choice. She'd never had one of those before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally, after standing still for long enough for a pigeon to consider the perching possibilities of her huge and rather sad black floppy hat, she climbed the steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man was theoretically sweeping them. What he was in <em class="calibre8">fact </em>doing was moving the dirt around with a broom, to give it a change of scenery and a chance to make new friends. He was dressed in a long coat that was slightly too small for him, and had a black beret perched incongruously on spiky black hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The effect was electric. He turned around, tangled one foot with the other, and collapsed on to his broom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes's hand flew to her mouth, and then she reached down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I'm so sorry!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hand had that clammy feel that makes a holder think longingly of soap. He pulled it away quickly, pushed his greasy hair out of his eyes and gave her a terrified smile; he had what Nanny Ogg called an underdone face, its features rubbery and pale.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No trouble miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He scrambled up, got the broom somehow tangled between his knees, and sat down again sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... shall I hold the broom?' said Agnes helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled it out of the tangle. He got up again, after a couple of false starts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you work for the Opera House?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, can you tell me where I have to go for the auditions?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around wildly. 'Stage‑door!' he said. 'I'll show you!' The words came out in a rush, as if he had to line them up and fire them all in one go before they had time to wander off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He snatched the broom out of her hands and set off down the steps and towards the corner of the building. He had a unique stride: it looked as though his body were being dragged forward and his legs had to flail around underneath it, landing wherever they could find room. It wasn't so much a walk as a collapse, indefinitely postponed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His erratic footsteps led towards a door in the side wall. Agnes followed them in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">just inside was a sort of shed, with one open wall and a counter positioned so that someone standing there could watch the door. The person behind it must have been a human being because walruses don't wear coats. The strange man had disappeared somewhere in the gloom beyond.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked around desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, miss?' said the walrus man. It really was an <em class="calibre8">impressive </em>moustache, which had sapped all the growth from the rest of its owner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I'm here for the... the auditions,' said Agnes. 'I saw a notice that said you were auditioning–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave a helpless little smile. The doorkeeper's face proclaimed that it had seen and been unimpressed by more desperate smiles than even Agnes could have eaten hot dinners. He produced a clipboard and a stub of pencil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got to sign here,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who was that...person who came in with me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The moustache moved, suggesting a smile was buried somewhere below. 'Everyone knows our Walter Plinge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This seemed to be all the information that was likely to be imparted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes gripped the pencil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The most important question was: what should she call herself? Her name had many sterling qualities, no doubt, but it didn't exactly roll off the tongue. It snapped off the palate and clicked between the teeth, but it didn't roll off the tongue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trouble was, she couldn't think of one with great rotational capabilities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Catherine, possibly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or... Perdita. She could go back to trying Perdita. She'd been embarrassed out of using that name in Lancre. It was a mysterious name, hinting of darkness and intrigue and, incidentally, of someone who was quite thin. She'd even given herself a middle initial–X–which stood for 'someone who has a cool and exciting middle initial'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It hadn't worked. Lancre people were depressingly resistant to cool. She had just been known as 'that Agnes who calls herself Perditax'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd never <em class="calibre8">dared </em>tell anyone that she'd like her <em class="calibre8">full</em> name to be Perdita X Dream. They just wouldn't <em class="calibre8">understand. </em>They'd say things like: if you think that's the right name for you, why have you still got two shelves full of soft toys?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, here she could start afresh. She was good. She knew she was good.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Probably no hope for the Dream, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was probably stuck with the Nitt.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg usually went to bed early. After all, she was an old lady. Sometimes she went to bed as early as 6 a. m.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her breath puffed in the air as she walked through the woods. Her boots crunched on the leaves. The wind had died away, leaving the sky wide and clear and open for the first frost of the season, a petal­nipping, fruit‑withering little scorcher that showed you why they called Nature a mother...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A third witch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Three witches could sort of... spread the load.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Maiden, mother and... crone. There.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trouble was that Granny Weatherwax com­bined all three in one. She was a maiden, as far as Nanny knew, and she was at least in the right age-­bracket for a crone; and, as for the third, well... cross Granny Weatherwax on a bad day and you'd be like a blossom in the frost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was bound to be a candidate for the vacancy, though. There were several young girls in Lancre who were just about the right age.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trouble was, the young men of Lancre knew it too. Nanny wandered the summer hayfields regu­larly, and had a sharp if compassionate eye and damn' good over‑the‑horizon hearing. Violet Frottidge was walking out with young Deviousness Carter, or at least doing something within ninety degrees of walking out. Bonnie Quarney had been gathering nuts in May with William Simple, and it was only because she'd thought ahead and taken a little advice from Nanny that she wouldn't be bearing fruit in February. And pretty soon now young Mildred Tinker's mother would have a quiet word with Mildred Tinker's father, and <em class="calibre8">he'd </em>have a word with his friend Thatcher and <em class="calibre8">he'd </em>have a word with his son Hob, and then there'd be a wedding, all done in a properly civilized way except for maybe a black eye or two. No doubt about it, thought Nanny with a misty‑eyed smile: innocence, in a hot Lancre summer, was that state in which innocence is lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then a name rose out of the throng. Oh, yes. Her. Why hadn't she thought of <em class="calibre8">her? </em>But you didn't, of course. Whenever you thought about the young girls of Lancre, you didn't remember her. And then you said, 'Oh, yes, her too, of course. O' course, she's got a wonderful personality. And good hair, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was bright, and talented. In many ways. Her voice, for one thing. That was her power, finding its way out. And of course she also had a wonderful personality, so there'd be not much chance of her being... disqualified...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, that was settled, then. Another witch to bully and impress would set Granny up a treat, and Agnes would be bound to thank her eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was relieved. You needed at least three witches for a coven. Two witches was just an argument.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She opened the door of her cottage and climbed the stairs to bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her cat, the tom Greebo, was spread out on the eiderdown like a puddle of grey fur. He didn't even awake as Nanny lifted him up bodily so that, nightdress-­clad, she could slide between the sheets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just to keep bad dreams at bay, she took a swig out of a bottle that smelled of apples and happy braindeath. Then she pummelled her pillow, thought 'Her... yes,' and drifted off to sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Presently Greebo awoke, stretched, yawned and hopped silently to the floor. Then the most vicious and cunning a pile of fur that ever had the intelligence to sit on a bird table with its mouth open and a piece of toast balanced on its nose vanished through the open window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few minutes later, the cockerel in the garden next door stuck up his head to greet the bright new day and died instantly mid–'doodle‑doo'.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a huge darkness in front of Agnes while, at the same time, she was half‑blinded by the light. Just below the edge of the stage, giant flat candles floated in a long trough of water, producing a strong yellow glare quite unlike the oil lamps of home. Beyond the light, the auditorium waited like the mouth of a very big and extremely hungry animal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From somewhere on the far side of the lights a voice said, 'When you're ready, miss.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a particularly unfriendly voice. It just wanted her to get on with it, sing her piece, and go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've, er, got this song, it's a–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've given your music to Miss Proudlet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, there isn't an accompaniment actually, it–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, it's a <em class="calibre8">folk</em> song, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a whispering in the darkness, and someone laughed quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Off you go then... Perdita, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes launched into the Hedgehog Song, and knew by about word seven that it had been the wrong choice. You needed a tavern, with people leering and thumping their mugs on the table. This big brilliant emptiness just sucked at it and made her voice hesitant and shrill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped at the end of verse three. She could feel the blush starting somewhere around her knees. It'd take some time to get to her face, because it had a lot of skin to cover, but by then it'd be strawberry pink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could hear whispering. Words like 'timbre' emerged from the susurration and then, she wasn't surprised to hear, came 'impressive build'. She did, she knew, have an impressive build. So did the Opera House. She didn't have to feel good about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice spoke up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You haven't had much training, have you, dear?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.' Which was true. Lancre's only other singer of note was Nanny Ogg, whose attitude to songs was purely ballistic. You just pointed your voice at the end of the verse and went for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper, whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sing us a few scales, dear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The blush was at chest‑height now, thundering across the rolling acres...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Scales?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper. Muffled laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do‑Re‑Mi? You know, dear? Starting low? La‑la‑lah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the armies of embarrassment stormed her neckline, Agnes pitched her voice as low as she could and went for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She concentrated on the notes, working her way stolidly upwards from sea‑level to mountaintop, and took no notice at the start when a chair vibrated across the stage or, at the end, when a glass broke somewhere and several bats fell out of the roof.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence from the big emptiness, except for the thud of another bat and, far above, a gentle tinkle of glass.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is... is that your full range, lass?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were clustering in the wings and staring at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If I go any higher people faint,' said Agnes. 'And if I go lower everyone says it makes them feel uncomfortable.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Whisper, whisper. Whisper, <em class="calibre8">whisper, </em>whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And, er, any other–?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can sing with myself in thirds. Nanny Ogg says not everyone can do that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?'                                            'Up here?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like... Do‑Mi. At the same time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Whisper, whisper.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Show us, lass.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'
    
     ¯
    
    Laaaaaa 
    
     ¯
    
    '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The people at the side of the stage were talking excitedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Whisper, whisper.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice from the darkness said: 'Now, your voice projection–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I can do <em class="calibre8">that</em>,' snapped Agnes. She was getting rather fed up. 'Where would you like it projected?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry? We're talking about–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes ground her teeth. She <em class="calibre8">was</em> good. And she'd show them...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'To here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't that much of a trick, she thought. It could be very impressive if you put the words in the mouth of a nearby dummy, like some of the travelling showmen did, but you couldn't pitch it far away and still manage to fool a whole audience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now that she was accustomed to the gloom she could just make out people turning around in their seats, bewildered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's your name again, dear?' The voice, which had at one point shown traces of condescension, had a distinct beaten‑up sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ag‑ Per... Perdita,' said Agnes. 'Perdita Nitt. Perdita X... Nitt.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We may have to do something about the Nitt, dear.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's door opened by itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarge Weaver hesitated. Of course, she <em class="calibre8">were </em>a witch. Peopled told him this sort of thing happened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't like it. But he didn't like his back, either, especially when his back didn't like him. It came to something when your vertebrae ganged up on you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He eased himself forward, grimacing, balancing himself on two sticks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witch was sitting in a rocking chair, facing away from the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Jarge hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on in, Jarge Weaver,' said Granny Weatherwax, 'and let me give you something for that back of yours.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shock made him try to stand upright, and this made something white‑hot explode somewhere in the region of his belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax rolled her eyes, and sighed. 'Can you sit down?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, miss. I can fall over on a chair, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny produced a small black bottle from an apron pocket and shook it vigorously. Jarge's eyes widened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got that all ready for me?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Granny truthfully. She'd long ago been resigned to the fact that people expected a bottle of something funny‑coloured and sticky. It wasn't the medicine that did the trick, though. It was, in a way, the spoon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is a mixture of rare herbs and suchlike,' she said. 'Including suckrose and akwa.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word,' said Jarge, impressed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take a swig now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He obeyed. It tasted faintly of liquorice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got to take another swig last thing at night,' Granny went on. 'An' then walk three times round a chestnut tree.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...three times round a chestnut tree...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An'...an' put a pine board under your mattress. Got to be pine from a twenty‑year‑old tree, mind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...twenty‑year‑old tree...' said Jarge. He felt he should make a contribution. 'So's the knots in me back end up in the pine?' he hazarded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was impressed. It was an outrageously ingenious bit of folk hokum worth remembering for another occasion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got it exactly right,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that's it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You wanted more?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... thought there were dancin' and chantin' and stuff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did that before you got here,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word. Yes. Er... about payin'...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I don't want payin',' said Granny. ' 'S bad luck, taking money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Right.' Jarge brightened up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But maybe... if your wife's got any old clothes, p'raps, I'm a size 12, black for preference, or bakes the odd cake, no plums, they gives me wind, or got a bit of old mead put by, could be, or p'raps you'll be killing a hog about now, best back's my favourite, maybe some ham, a few pig knuckles... anything you can spare, really. No obligation. I wouldn't go around puttin' anyone under obligation, just 'cos I'm a witch. Everyone all right in your house, are they? Blessed with good health, I hope?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched this sink in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now let me help you out of the door,' she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Weaver was never quite certain about what happened next. Granny, usually so sure on her feet, seemed to trip over one of his sticks as she went through the door, and fell backward, holding his shoulders, and somehow her knee came up and hit a spot on his backbone as she twisted sideways, and there was a <em class="calibre8">click</em>–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aargh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me back! Me <em class="calibre8">back!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, Jarge reasoned later, she was an old woman. And she might be getting clumsy and she'd always been daft, but she made good potions. They worked damn' fast, too. He was carrying his sticks by the time he got home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny watched him go, shaking her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were so <em class="calibre8">blind, </em>she reflected. They preferred to believe in gibberish rather than chiropracty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, it was just as well this was so. She'd much rather they went 'oo' when she seemed to know who was approaching her cottage than work out that it conveniently overlooked a bend in the track, and as for the door‑latch and the trick with the length of black thread...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what had she done? She'd just tricked a rather dim old man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd faced wizards, monsters and elves... and now she was feeling pleased with herself because she'd fooled Jarge Weaver, a man who'd twice failed to become Village Idiot through being overqualified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the slippery slope. Next thing it'd be cackling and gibbering and luring children into the oven. And it wasn't as if she even <em class="calibre8">liked </em>children.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For years Granny Weatherwax had been contented enough with the challenge that village witchcraft could offer. And then she'd been forced to go travelling, and she'd seen a bit of the world, and it had made her itchy–especially at this time of the year, when the geese were flying overhead and the first frost had mugged innocent leaves in the deeper valleys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around at the kitchen. It needed sweeping. The washing‑up needed doing. The walls had grown grubby. There seemed to be so much to do that she couldn't bring herself to do any of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a honking far above, and a ragged V of geese sped over the clearing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were heading for warmer weather in places Granny Weatherwax had only heard about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was tempting.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The selection committee sat around the table in the office of Mr Seldom Bucket, the Opera House's new owner. He'd been joined by Salzella, the musical director, and Dr Undershaft, the chorus master.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And so,' said Mr Bucket, 'we come to... let's see... yes, Christine... Marvellous stage presence, eh? Good figure, too.' He winked at Dr Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Very pretty,' said Dr Undershaft flatly. 'Can't sing, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What you artistic types don't realize is this is the Century of the Fruitbat,' said Bucket. 'Opera is a production, not just a lot of songs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you say. But...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The idea that a soprano should be fifteen acres of bosom in a horned helmet belongs to the past, like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella and Undershaft exchanged glances. So he was going to be <em class="calibre8">that </em>kind of owner...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Unfortunately,' said Salzella sourly, 'the idea that a soprano should have a reasonable singing voice does not belong to the past. She has a good figure, yes. She certainly has a... sparkle. But she can't <em class="calibre8">sing</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can train her, can't you?' said Bucket. 'A few years in the chorus...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, maybe after a few years, if I persevere, she will be merely very bad,' said Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, gentlemen,' said Mr Bucket. 'Ahem. All right. Cards on the table, eh? I'm a simple man, me. No beating about the bush, speak as you find, call a spade a spade–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do give us your forthright views,' said Salzella. <em class="calibre8">Definitely </em>that kind of owner, he thought. Self‑made man proud of his handiwork. Confuses bluffness and honesty with merely being rude. I wouldn't mind betting a dollar that he thinks he can tell a man's character by testing the firmness of his handshake and looking deeply into his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been through the mill, I have,' Bucket began, 'and I made myself what I am today–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Self‑raising flour? thought Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–but I have to, er, declare a bit of a financial interest. Her dad did, er, in fact, er, lend me a fair whack of money to help me buy this place, and he made a heartfelt fatherly request in regard to his daughter. If I bring it to mind correctly, his exact words, er, were: "Don't make me have to break your legs." I don't expect you <em class="calibre8">artistes </em>to understand. It's a business thing. The gods help those who help themselves, that's my motto.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella stuck his hands in his waistcoat pockets, leaned back and started to whistle softly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I<em class="calibre8"> see,' </em>said Undershaft. 'Well, it's not the first time it's happened. Normally it's a ballerina, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, it's nothing like <em class="calibre8">that,' </em>said Bucket hurriedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's just that with the money comes this girl Christine. And you have to admit, she does look good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, very well,' said Salzella. 'It's your Opera House, I'm sure. And now... Perdita...?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They smiled at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita!' said Bucket, relieved to get the Christine business over so that he could go back to being bluff and honest again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita X,' Salzella corrected him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What will these girls think of next?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think she will prove an asset,' said Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, if we ever do that opera with the elephants.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But the range... what a range she's got...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Quite. I saw you staring.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I<em class="calibre8"> meant </em>her <em class="calibre8">voice, </em>Salzella. She will add body to the chorus.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She is a chorus. We could sack everyone else. Ye gods, she can even sing in harmony with herself. But can you see her in a major role?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief, no. We'd be a laughing‑stock.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Quite so. She seems quite... amenable, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wonderful personality, I thought. And good hair, of course.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd never expected it to be this easy...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes listened in a kind of trance while people talked at her about wages (very little), the need for training (a lot), and accommodation (members of the chorus lived in the Opera House itself, up near the roof).</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, more or less, she was forgotten about. She stood and watched at the side of the stage while a group of ballet hopefuls were put through their delicate paces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do have an amazing voice,' said someone behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned. As Nanny Ogg had once remarked, it was an education seeing Agnes turn around. She was light enough on her feet but the inertia of outlying parts meant that bits of Agnes were still trying to work out which way to face for some time afterwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The girl who had spoken to her was slightly built, even by ordinary standards, and had gone to some pains to make herself look even thinner. She had long blond hair and the happy smile of someone who is aware that she is thin and has long blond hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My name's Christine!' she said. 'Isn't this exciting?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she had the type of voice that can exclaim a question. It seemed to have an excited little squeak permanently screwed to it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, yes,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been waiting for this day for <em class="calibre8">years!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes had been waiting for it for about twenty-four hours, ever since she'd seen the notice outside the Opera House. But she'd be danged if she'd say that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where did you train?!' said Christine. 'I spent three years with Mme Venturi at the Quirm Conservatory!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um. I was...' Agnes hesitated, trying out the upcoming sentence in her head. '... I trained with... Dame Ogg. But she hasn't got a conservatory, because it's hard to get the glass up the mountain.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine didn't appear to want to question this. Anything she found too difficult to understand, she ignored.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The money in the chorus isn't very good, is it?!' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.' It was less than you'd get for scrubbing floors. The reason was that, when you advertised a dirty floor, hundreds of hopefuls didn't turn up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it's what I've always wanted to do! Besides, there's the status!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I expect there is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been to look at the rooms we get! They're very poky! What room have you been given?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked down blankly at the key she had been handed, along with many sharp instructions about <em class="calibre8">no men </em>and an unpleasant not‑that‑<em class="calibre8">you</em>‑need‑telling expression on the chorus mistress's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh ... 17.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine clapped her hands. 'Oh, goody!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pardon?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm <em class="calibre8">so</em> glad!! You're next to me!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes was taken aback. She'd always been resigned to being the last to be picked in the great team game of Life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... yes, I suppose so...' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're so lucky!! You've got such a majestic figure for opera!! And such marvellous hair, the way you pile it up like that!! Black suits you, by the way!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Majestic, thought Agnes. It was a word that would never, ever have occurred to her. And she'd always steered away from white because in white she looked like a washing‑line on a windy day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She followed Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It occurred to Agnes, as she trudged after the girl en route to her new lodgings, that if you spent much time in the same room as Christine you'd need to open a window to stop from drowning in punctuation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From somewhere at the back of the stage, quite unheeded, someone watched them go.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">People were generally glad to see Nanny Ogg. She was good at making them feel at home in their own home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she <em class="calibre8">was</em> a witch, and therefore also expert at arriving just after cakes were baked or sausages were made. Nanny Ogg generally travelled with a string bag stuffed up one knee‑length knicker leg–in case, as she put it, someone wants to give me something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So, Mrs Nitt,' she observed, around about the third cake and fourth cup of tea, 'how's that daughter of yours? Agnes it is to whom I refer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, didn't you hear, Mrs Ogg? She's gone off to Ankh­-Morpork to be a singer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's heart sank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's nice,' she said. 'She has a good singing voice, I remember. Of course, I gave her a few tips. I used to hear her singing in the woods.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the air here,' said Mrs Nitt. 'She's always had such a good chest.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed. Noted for it. So... er... she's not here, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know our Agnes. She never says much. I think she thought it was a bit dull.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dull? Lancre?' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what I said,' said Mrs Nitt. 'I said we get some lovely sunsets up here. And there's the fair every Soul Cake Tuesday, regular.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg thought about Agnes. You needed quite large thoughts to fit all of Agnes in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lancre had always bred strong, capable women. A Lancre farmer needed a wife who'd think nothing of beating a wolf to death with her apron when she went out to get some firewood. And, while kissing initially seemed to have more charms than cookery, a stolid Lancre lad looking for a bride would bear in mind his father's advice that kisses eventually lost their fire but cookery tended to get even better over the years, and direct his courting to those families that clearly showed a tradition of enjoying their food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes was, Nanny considered, quite good-looking in an expansive kind of way; she was a fine figure of typical young Lancre womanhood. This meant she was approximately two womanhoods from anywhere else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny also recalled her as being rather thoughtful and shy, as if trying to reduce the amount of world she took up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she had shown signs of craft ability. That was only to be expected. There was nothing like that <em class="calibre8">not fitting in</em> feeling to stimulate the old magical nerves; that was why Esme was so good at it. In Agnes's case this had manifested itself in a tendency to wear soppy black lace gloves and pale makeup and call herself Perdita plus an initial from the arse of the alphabet, but Nanny had assumed that would soon burn off when she got some serious witchcraft under her rather strained belt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She should have paid more attention to the thing about music. Power found its way out by all sorts of routes...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Music and magic had a lot in common. They were only two letters apart, for one thing. And you couldn't do both.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Damn. Nanny had rather been counting on the girl.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She used to send off to Ankh‑Morpork for music,' said Mrs Nitt. 'See?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She handed Nanny several piles of papers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny leafed through them. Song‑sheets were common enough in the Ramtops, and a singsong in the parlour was considered the third best thing to do on long dark evenings. But Nanny could see this wasn't ordinary music. It was far too crowded for that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Cosi fan Hita</em>,' she read. '<em class="calibre8">Die Meistersinger von Scrote</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's <em class="calibre8">foreign</em>,' said Mrs Nitt proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It certainly is,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Nitt was looking expectantly at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Nanny, and then, 'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Nitt's eyes flickered to her emptied teacup and back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sighed and laid the music aside. Occasionally she saw Granny Weatherwax's point. Sometimes people expected too little of witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeedy,' she said, trying to smile. 'Let us see what destiny in the form of these dried‑up bits of leaf has in store for us, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She set her features in a suitable occult expression and looked down into the cup.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which, a second later, smashed into fragments when it hit the floor.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a small room. In fact it was half a small room, since a thin wall had been built across it. Junior members of the chorus ranked rather lower than apprentice scene‑shifters in the opera.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was room for a bed, a wardrobe, a dressing-table and, quite out of place, a huge mirror, as big as the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Impressive, isn't it?!' said Christine. 'They tried to take it out but it's built into the wall, apparently!! I'm sure it will be very useful!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes said nothing. Her own half‑room, the other half of this one, didn't have a mirror. She was glad of that. She did not regard mirrors as naturally friendly. It wasn't just the images they showed her. There was something... <em class="calibre8">worrying</em>... about mirrors. She'd always felt that. They seemed to be looking at her. Agnes hated being looked at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine stepped into the small space in the middle of the floor and twirled. There was something very enjoyable about watching her. It was the sparkle, Agnes thought. Something about Christine suggested sequins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't this nice?!' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not liking Christine would be like not liking small fluffy animals. And Christine was just like a small fluffy animal. A rabbit, perhaps. It was certainly impossible for her to get a whole idea into her head in one go. She had to nibble it into manageable bits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes glanced at the mirror again. Her reflection stared at her. She could have done with some time to herself right now. Everything had happened so quickly. And this place made her uneasy. Everything would feel a lot better if she could just have some time to herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine stopped twirling. 'Are you all right?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do <em class="calibre8">tell </em>me about yourself?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... well...' Agnes was gratified, despite herself. 'I'm from somewhere up in the mountains you've probably never heard of...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped. A light had gone off in Christine's head, and Agnes realized that the question had been asked not because Christine in any way wanted to know the answer but for something to say. She went on: '...and my father is the Emperor of Klatch and my mother is a small tray of raspberry puddings.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's interesting!' said Christine, who was looking at the mirror. 'Do youthink my hair looks right?!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">What Agnes would have said, if Christine had been capable of listening to anything for more than a couple of seconds, was:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd woken up one morning with the horrible realization that she'd been saddled with a lovely personality. It was as simple as that. Oh, and very good hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't so much the personality, it was the 'but' that people always added when they talked about it. <em class="calibre8">But she's got a lovely personality, </em>they said. It was the lack of choice that rankled. No one had asked her, before she was born, whether she wanted a lovely personality or whether she'd prefer, say, a miserable personality but a body that could take size 9 in dresses. Instead, people would take pains to tell her that beauty was only skin‑deep, as if a man ever fell for an attractive pair of kidneys.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could feel a future trying to land on her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd caught herself saying 'poot!' and 'dang!' when she wanted to swear, and using pink writing paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd got a reputation for being calm and capable in a crisis.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Next thing she knew she'd be making shortbread and apple pies as good as her mother's, and then there'd be no hope for her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So she'd introduced Perdita. She'd heard somewhere that inside every fat woman was a thin woman trying to get out, so she'd named her Perdita. She was a good repository for all those thoughts that Agnes couldn't think on account of her wonderful personality. Perdita would use black writing paper if she could get away with it, and would be beautifully pale instead of embarrassingly flushed. Perdita wanted to be an interestingly lost soul in plumcoloured lipstick. Just occasionally, though, Agnes thought Perdita was as dumb as she was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Was the only alternative the witches? She'd felt their interest in her, in a way she couldn't exactly identify. It was of a piece with knowing when someone was watching you, although she had, in fact, occasionally seen Nanny Ogg watching her in a critical kind of fashion, like someone inspecting a second‑hand horse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew she <em class="calibre8">did </em>have some talent. Sometimes she knew things that were going to happen, although always in a sufficiently confused way that the knowledge was totally useless until afterwards. And there was her voice. She was aware it wasn't quite natural. She'd always enjoyed singing and, somehow, her voice had just done everything she'd wanted it to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But she'd seen the ways the witches lived. Oh, Nanny Ogg was all right–quite a nice old baggage really. But the others were <em class="calibre8">weird, </em>lying crosswise on the world instead of nicely parallel to it like everyone else... old Mother Dismass who could see into the past and the future but was totally blind in the present, and Millie Hopwood over in Slice, who stuttered and had runny ears, and as for Granny Weatherwax...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, <em class="calibre8">yes</em>. Finest job in the world? Being a sour old woman with no friends?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were always looking for weird people like themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, they could look in vain for Agnes Nitt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Fed up with living in Lancre, and fed up with the witches, and above all fed up with being Agnes Nitt, she'd... escaped.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg didn't look built for running, but she covered the ground deceptively fast, her great heavy boots kicking up shoals of leaves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a trumpeting overhead. Another skein of geese passed across the sky, so fast in pursuit of the summer that their wings were hardly moving in the ballistic rush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax's cottage looked deserted. It had, Nanny felt, a particularly empty feel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scurried around to the back door and burst through, pounded up the stairs, saw the gaunt figure on the bed, reached an instant conclusion, grabbed the pitcher of water from its place on the marble washstand, ran forward...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand shot up and grabbed her wrist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">was</em> having a <em class="calibre8">nap</em>,' said Granny, opening her eyes. 'Gytha, I swear I could feel you comin' half a mile away–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We got to make a cup of tea quick!' gasped Nanny, almost sagging with relief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was more than bright enough not to ask questions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But you couldn't hurry a good cup of tea. Nanny Ogg jiggled from one foot to the other while the fire was pumped up, the small frogs fished out of the water bucket, the water boiled, the dried leaves allowed to seep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ain't saying nothing,' said Nanny, sitting down at last. Just pour a cup, that's all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the whole, witches despised fortune‑telling from tea­leaves. Tea‑leaves are not uniquely fortunate in knowing what the future holds. They are really just something for the eyes to rest on while the mind does the work. Practically anything would do. The scum on a puddle, the skin on a custard... anything. Nanny Ogg could see the future in the froth on a beermug. It invariably showed that she was going to enjoy a refreshing drink which she almost certainly was not going to pay for.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You recall young Agnes Nitt?' said Nanny as Granny Weatherwax tried to find the milk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Agnes who calls herself Perditax?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita X,' said Nanny. She at least respected anyone's right to recreate themselves.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shrugged. 'Fat girl. Big hair. Walks with her feet turned out. Sings to herself in the woods. Good voice. Reads books. Says "poot!" instead of swearing. Blushes when anyone looks at her. Wears black lace gloves with the fingers cut out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You remember we once talked about maybe how possibly she might be... suitable.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, there's a twist in the soul there, you're right,' said Granny. 'But... it's an unfortunate name.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Her father's name was Terminal,' said Nanny Ogg reflectively. 'There were three sons: Primal, Medial and Terminal. I'm afraid the family's always had a problem with education.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">meant </em>Agnes,' said Granny. 'Always puts me in mind of carpet fluff, that name.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Prob'ly that's why she called herself Perdita,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Worse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got her fixed in your mind?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I suppose so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. Now look at them tea‑leaves.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no particular drama, perhaps because of the way Nanny had built up expectations. But Granny did hiss between her teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, now. There's a thing,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See it? See it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep.,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like...a skull?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And them eyes? I nearly pi‑ I was pretty damn' surprised by them eyes, I can tell you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny carefully replaced the cup.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Her main showed me her letters home,' said Nanny. 'I brung 'em with me. It's worrying, Esme. She could be facing something bad. She's a Lancre girl. One of ours. Nothing's too much trouble when it's one of your own, I always say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tea‑leaves can't tell the future,' said Granny quietly. 'Everyone knows that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tea‑leaves don't know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, who'd be so daft as to tell anything to a bunch of dried leaves?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked down at Agnes's letters home. They were written in the careful rounded script of someone who'd been taught to write as a child by copying letters on a slate, and had never written enough as an adult to change their style. The person writing them had also very conscientiously drawn faint pencil lines on the paper before writing.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dear Mam, I hope this finds you as it leaves me. Here I am in Ankh‑Morpork and everything is all right, I have not been ravished yet!! I am staying at 4 Treacle Mine Road, it is alright and...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny tried another.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dear Mum, I hope you are well. Everything is fine but, the money runs away like water here. I am doing some singing in taverns but I am not making much so I went to see the Guild of Seamstresses about getting a sewing job and I took along some stitching to show them and you'd be 
    AMAZED, 
    that's all I can say...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And another...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dear Mother, Some good news at last. Next week they're holding auditions at the Opera House...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's opera?' said Granny Weatherwax. 'It's like theatre, with singing,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! <em class="calibre8">Theatre,' </em>said Granny darkly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Our Nev told me about it. It's all singing in foreign languages, he said. He couldn't understand any of it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny put down the letters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but your Nev can't understand a lot of things. What was he doing at this opera theatre, anyway?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nicking the lead off the roof.' Nanny said this quite happily. It wasn't theft if an Ogg was doing it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't tell much from the letters, except that's she's picking up an education,' said Granny. 'But it's a long way to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a hesitant knock on the door. It was Shawn Ogg, Nanny's youngest son and Lancre's entire civil and public service. Currently he had his postman's badge on; the Lancre postal service consisted of taking the mailbag off the nail where the coach left it and delivering it to the outlying homesteads when he had a moment, although many citizens were in the habit of going down to the sack and rummaging until they found some mail they liked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He touched his helmet respectfully at Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got a lot of letters, mum,' he said to Nanny Ogg. 'Er. They're all addressed to, er, well... er... you'd better have a look, mum.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg took the proffered bundle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "The Lancre Witch",' she said aloud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That'd be me, then,' said Granny Weatherwax firmly, and took the letters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Well, I'd better be going...' said Nanny, backing towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't imagine why peopled be writing to me,' said Granny, slitting an envelope. 'Still, I suppose news gets around.' She focused on the words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Dear Witch," ' she read, ' "I would just like to say how much I appreciated the Famous Carrot and Oyster Pie recipe. My husband–" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg made it halfway down the path before her boots became, suddenly, too heavy to lift.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Gytha Ogg, you come back here right now!'
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes tried again. She didn't really know anyone in Ankh-­Morpork and she did need someone to talk to, even if they didn't listen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose mainly I came because of the witches,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine turned, her eyes wide with fascination. So was her mouth. It was like looking at a rather pretty bowling ball.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Witches?!' she breathed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Agnes wearily. Yes. People were always fascinated by the idea of witches. They should try living around them, she thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do they do spells and ride around on broomsticks?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No wonder you ran away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh... no... it's not like that. I mean, they're not <em class="calibre8">bad. </em>It's much... worse than that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Worse than bad?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They think they know what's best for everybody.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine's forehead wrinkled, as it tended to when she was contemplating a problem more complex than 'What is your name?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That doesn't sound very ba–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They... mess people around. They think that just because they're right that's the same as good! It's not even as though they do any <em class="calibre8">real </em>magic. It's all fooling people and being clever! They think they can do what they like!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The force of the words knocked even Christine back. 'Oh, dear!! Did they want you to do something?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They want me to <em class="calibre8">be </em>something. But I'm not going to!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine stared at her. And then, automatically, forgot everything she'd just heard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come on,' she said, 'let's have a look around!!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg balanced on a chair and took down an oblong wrapped in paper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny watched sternly with her arms folded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thing is,' Nanny babbled, under the laser glare, 'my late husband, I remember him once sayin' to me, after dinner, he said, "You know, mother, it'd be a real shame if all the stuff you know just passed away when <em class="calibre8">you</em> did. Why don't you write some of it down?" So I scribbled the odd one, when I had a moment, and then I thought it'd be nice to have it all properly done so I sent it off to the Almanack people in Ankh‑Morpork and they hardly charged me anything and a little while ago they sent me this, I think it's a very good job, it's amazing how they get all the letters so neat–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You done a <em class="calibre8">book,' </em>said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only cookery,' said Nanny Ogg meekly, as one might plead a first offence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you know about it? You hardly ever do any cooking,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I do specialities,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked at the offending volume.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     '
    </em>
     "<em class="calibre8">The Joye of Snacks,</em>" ' she read out loud. ' "Bye A Lancre Witch." Hah! Why dint you put your own name on it, eh? Books've got to have a name on 'em so's everyone knows who's guilty.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's my <em class="calibre8">gnome de plum,' </em>said Nanny. 'Mr Goatberger the Almanack man said it'd make it sound more mysterious.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny cast her gimlet gaze to the bottom of the crowded cover, where it said, in very small lettering, 'CXX viith Printyng. More Than Twenty Thoufand Solde! One half dollar.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You sent them some money to get it all printed?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only a couple of dollars,' said Nanny. 'Damn' good job they made of it, too. And then they sent the money back afterwards, only they got it wrong and sent three dollars extra.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was grudgingly literate but keenly numerate. She assumed that anything written down was probably a lie, and that applied to numbers too. Numbers were used only by people who wanted to put one over on you.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her lips moved silently as she thought about numbers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' she said, quietly. 'And that was it, was it? You never wrote to him again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not on your life. Three dollars, mind. I dint want him saying he wanted 'em back.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can see that,' said Granny, still dwelling in the world of numbers. She wondered how much it cost to do a book. It couldn't be a lot: they had sort of printing mills to do the actual work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'After all, there's a lot you can do with three dollars,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right enough,' said Granny. 'You ain't got a pencil about you, have you? You being a literary type and all?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I got a slate,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pass it over, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bin keeping it by me in case I wake up in the night and I get an idea for a recipe, see,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Granny vaguely. The slate pencil squeaked across the grey tablet. <em class="calibre8">The paper must cost something. And you'd probably have to tip someone a couple of pennies to sell it</em>...Angular figures danced from column to column.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll make another cup of tea, shall I?' said Nanny, relieved that the conversation appeared to be coming to a peaceful end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm?' said Granny. She stared at the result and drew two lines under it. 'But you enjoyed it, did you?' she called out. 'The writin'?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg poked her head around the scullery door. 'Oh, yes. The money dint matter,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've never been very good at numbers, have you?' said Granny. Now she drew a circle around the final figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know me, Esme,' said Nanny cheerfully. 'I couldn't subtract a fart from a plate of beans.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's good, 'cos I reckon this Master Goatberger owes you a bit more than you got, if there's any justice in the world,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Money ain't everything, Esme. What I say is, if you've got your health–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon, if there's any justice, it's about four or five thousand dollars,' said Granny quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crash from the scullery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So it's a good job the money don't matter,' Granny Weatherwax went on. 'It'd be a terrible thing otherwise. All that money, matterin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg's white face appeared around the edge of the door. 'He never!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be a bit more,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It never!9 'You just adds up and divides and that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg stared in horrified fascination at her own fingers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But that's a–' She stopped. The only word she could think of was 'fortune' and that wasn't adequate. Witches didn't operate in a cash economy. The whole of the Ramtops, by and large, got by without the complications of capital. <em class="calibre8">Fifty </em>dollars was a fortune. A hundred dollars was a, was a, was... well, it was <em class="calibre8">two </em>fortunes, that was what it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a lot of money,' she said weakly. 'What couldn't I do with money like that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dunno,' said Granny Weatherwax. ' What did you do with the three dollars?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got it in a tin up the chimney,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded approvingly. This was the kind of good fiscal practice she liked to see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Beats me why peopled fall over themselves to read a cookery book, though,' she added. 'I mean, it's not the sort of thing that–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The room fell silent. Nanny Ogg shuffled her boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny said, in a voice laden with a suspicion that was all the worse because it wasn't yet quite sure what it was suspicious of 'It <em class="calibre8">is</em> a cookery book, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Nanny hurriedly, avoiding Granny's gaze. 'Yes. Recipes and that. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glared at her. <em class="calibre8">'Just </em>recipes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Oh, yes. Yes. And some... cookery anecdotes, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny went on glaring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny gave in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... look under Famous Carrot and Oyster Pie,' she said. 'Page 25.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned the pages. Her lips moved silently. Then: 'I <em class="calibre8">see. </em>Anything else?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... Cinnamon and Marshmallow Fingers...page 17...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked it up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...Celery Astonishment... page 10.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked <em class="calibre8">that </em>up<em class="calibre8">, </em>too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't say it astonished <em class="calibre8">me,' </em>she said. 'And... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... well, more or less all of Humorous Puddings and Cake Decoration. That's all of Chapter Six. I done illustrations for that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned to Chapter Six. She had to turn the book around a couple of times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What one you looking at?' said Nanny Ogg, because an author is always keen to get feedback.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Strawberry Wobbler,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. That one always gets a laugh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did not appear to be obtaining one from Granny. She carefully closed the book.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha,' she said, 'this is <em class="calibre8">me </em>askin' you this. Is there any page in this book, is there any single recipe, which does not in some way relate to... goingson?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg, her face red as her apples, seemed to give this some lengthy consideration.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Porridge,' she said, eventually.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Er. No, I tell a lie, it's got my special honey mixture in it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned a page.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about this one? Maids of Honour?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Weeelll, 
    </em>
    they starts <em class="calibre8">out </em>as Maids of Honour,' said Nanny, fidgeting with her feet, 'but they ends up Tarts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked at the front cover again. <em class="calibre8">The Joye of Snacks.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An' you actually set out to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It just sort of turned out that way, really.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was not a jouster in the lists of love but, as an intelligent onlooker, she knew how the game was played. No wonder the book had sold like hot cakes. Half the recipes told you how to make them. It was surprising the pages hadn't singed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it was by 'A Lancre Witch'. The world was, Granny Weatherwax modestly admitted, well aware of who <em class="calibre8">the </em>witch of Lancre was; <em class="calibre8">viz</em>, it was her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg, you look me in the eye.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "A Lancre Witch", it says here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never thought, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you'll go and see Mr Goatberger and have this stopped, right? I don't want people lookin' at me and thinkin' about the Bananana Soup Surprise. I don't even <em class="calibre8">believe </em>the Bananana Soup Surprise. And I ain't relishin' going down the street and hearin' people makin' cracks about bananas.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I'll come with you to make sure you do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we'll talk to the man about your money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we might just drop in on young Agnes to make sure she's all right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But we'll do it diplomatic like. We don't want people thinkin' we're pokin' our noses in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one could say I interfere where I'm not wanted. You won't find anyone callin' <em class="calibre8">me </em>a busybody.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was, "Yes, Esme, you won't find anyone callin' <em class="calibre8">you</em> a busybody", was it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You sure about that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked out at the dull grey sky and the dying leaves and felt, amazingly enough, her sap rising. A day ago the future had looked aching and desolate, and now it looked full of surprises and terror and bad things happening to people...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If she had anything to do with it, anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the scullery, Nanny Ogg grinned to herself.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes had known a little bit about the theatre. A travelling company came to Lancre sometimes. Their stage was about twice the size of a door, and 'backstage' consisted of a bit of sacking behind which was usually a man trying to change trousers and wigs at the same time and another man, dressed as a king, having a surreptitious smoke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Opera House was almost as big as the Patrician's palace, and far more palatial. It covered three acres. There was stabling for twenty horses and two elephants in the cellar; Agnes spent some time there, because the elephants were reassuringly larger than her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were rooms behind the stage so big that entire sets were stored there. There was a whole ballet school somewhere in the building. Some of the girls were on stage now, ugly in woolly jumpers, going through a routine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The inside of the Opera House–at least, the backstage inside–put Agnes strongly in mind of the clock her brother had taken apart to find the tick. It was hardly a building. It was more like a machine. Sets and curtains and ropes hung in the darkness like dreadful things in a forgotten cellar. The stage was only a small part of the place, a little rectangle of light in a huge, complicated darkness full of significant machinery...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A piece of dust floated down from the blackness high above. She brushed it off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought I heard someone up there,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's probably the Ghost!!' said Christine. 'We've got one, you know! Oh, I said <em class="calibre8">we</em>!! Isn't this exciting?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A man with his face covered by a white mask,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh?! You've heard about him, then?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Who?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Blast, thought Agnes. It was always ready to catch her out. Just when she thought she'd put all that behind her. She'd know things without quite knowing why. It upset people. It certainly upset her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I... suppose someone must have told me...'she mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He moves around the Opera House invisibly, they say!! One moment he'll be in the Gods, next moment he'll be backstage somewhere!! No one knows how he does it!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say he watches every performance!! That's why they never sell tickets for Box Eight, didn't you know?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Box Eight?' said Agnes. 'What's a Box?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Boxes! You know? That's where you get the best people?! Look, I shall show you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine marched to the front of the stage and waved a hand grandly at the empty auditorium.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Boxes!' she said. 'Over there! And right up there, the Gods!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her voice bounced back from the distant wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aren't the best people in the Gods? It sounds–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no! The best people will be in Boxes! Or possibly in the Stalls!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's down there? They must get a good view–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't be silly!! That's the Pit!! That's for the musicians!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that makes sense, anyway. Er. Which one's Box Eight?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know! But they say if ever they sell seats in Box Eight there'll be a dreadful tragedy!! Isn't that romantic?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For some reason Agnes's practical eye was drawn to the huge chandelier that hung over the auditorium like a fantastic sea monster. Its thick rope disappeared into the darkness near the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The glass chimes tinkled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another flare of that certain power which Agnes did her best to suppress at every turn flashed a treacherous image across her mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That looks like an accident waiting to happen if ever I saw one,' she mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure it's <em class="calibre8">perfectly </em>safe!!' trilled Christine. 'I'm <em class="calibre8">sure </em>they wouldn't allow–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A chord rolled out, shaking the stage. The chandelier tinkled, and more dust came down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What was that?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was the organ!! It's so big it's behind the stage!! Come on, let's go and see!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Other members of the staff were hurrying towards the organ. There was an overturned bucket nearby, and a spreading pool of green paint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A carpenter reached past Agnes and picked up an envelope that was lying on the organ seat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's for the boss,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When it's <em class="calibre8">my</em> mail, the postman usually just knocks,' said a ballerina, and giggled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked up. Ropes swung lazily in the musty darkness. For a moment she thought she saw a flash of white, and then it was gone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a shape, just visible, tangled in the ropes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something wet and sticky dripped down and splashed on the keyboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were already screaming when Agnes reached past, dipped her finger in the growing puddle, and sniffed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's blood!' said the carpenter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's blood, isn't it?' said a musician.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Blood!!' screamed Christine. 'Blood!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Agnes's terrible fate to keep her head in a crisis. She sniffed her finger again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's turpentine,' said Agnes. 'Er. Sorry. Is that wrong?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Up in the tangle of ropes, the figure moaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't we get him down? she added.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Cando Cutoff was a humble woodcutter. He wasn't humble <em class="calibre8">because </em>he was a woodcutter. He would still have been quite humble if he'd owned five logging mills. He was just naturally humble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And he was unpretentiously stacking some logs at the point .where the Lancre road met the main mountain road when he saw a farm cart rumble to a halt and unload two elderly ladies in black. Both carried a broomstick in one hand and a sack in the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were arguing. It was not a raised‑voice argument, but a chronic wrangle that had clearly been going on for some time and was set in for the rest of the decade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all very well for you, but it's my three dollars so I don't see why I can't say how we go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I likes flying.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I'm telling you it's too draughty on broom­sticks this time of year, Esme. The breeze gets into places I wouldn't dream of talking about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Can't imagine where those'd be, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Esme!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't "Oh, Esme" me. It weren't <em class="calibre8">me </em>that come up with the Amusing Wedding Trifle with the Special Sponge Fingers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, Greebo don't like it on the broomstick. He's got a delicate stomach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cutoff noticed that one of the sacks was moving in a lazy way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha, I've seen him eat half a skunk, so don't tell me about his delicate stomach,' said Granny, who disliked cats on principle. 'Anyway... he's been doing It again.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg waved her hands airily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, he only does It sometimes, when he's really in a corner,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He did It in ole Mrs Grope's henhouse last week. She went into see what all the ruckus was, and he did It right in front of her. She had to have a liedown.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He was probably more frightened than she was,' said Nanny defensively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what comes of getting strange ideas in foreign parts,' said Granny. 'Now you've got a cat who– Yes, what is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cutoff had meekly approached them and was hovering in the kind of half‑crouch of someone trying to be noticed while also not wanting to intrude.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you ladies waiting for the stagecoach?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said the taller of the ladies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um, I'm afraid the next coach doesn't stop here. It doesn't stop until Creel Springs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They gave him a couple of polite stares.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you,' said the tall one. She turned to her companion.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It gave her a nasty shock, anyway. I dread to think what he'll learn <em class="calibre8">this</em> time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He pines when I'm gone. He won't take food from anyone else.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only 'cos they try to poison him, and no wonder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cutoff shook his head sadly and wandered back to his log pile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach turned up five minutes later, coming around the corner at speed. It drew level with the women–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">–and stopped. That is, the horses tried to stand still and the wheels locked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't so much a skid as a spin, and the whole thing gradually came to rest about fifty yards down the road, with the driver in a tree.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The women strolled towards it, still arguing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One of them poked the driver with her broomstick. 'Two tickets to Ankh‑Morpork, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He landed in the road.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, two tickets to Ankh‑Morpork? The coach doesn't stop here!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks stopped to <em class="calibre8">me</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you <em class="calibre8">do</em> something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, us?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Listen, lady, even if I <em class="calibre8">was</em> stopping here the tickets are forty damn' dollars each!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why've you got broomsticks?' shouted the driver. 'Are you witches?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Have you got any special low terms for witches?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, how about "meddling, interfering old baggages"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cutoff felt that he must have missed part of the conversation, because the next exchange went like this:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What was that again, young man?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two complimentary tickets to Ankh‑Morpork, ma'am. No problem.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Inside seats, mind. No travelling on the top.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly, ma'am. Excuse me while I just kneel in the dirt so's you can step up, ma'am.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Cutoff nodded happily to himself as the coach pulled away again. It was nice to see that good manners and courtesy were still alive.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">With great difficulty and much shouting and untangling of ropes far above, the figure was lowered to the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was soaked in paint and turpentine. The swelling audience of off duty staff and rehearsal truants crowded in around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes knelt down, loosened his collar and tried to unwind the rope that had caught around arm and neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does anyone know him?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's Tommy Cripps,' said a musician. 'He paints scenery.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tommy moaned, and opened his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw him!' he muttered. 'It was horrible!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Saw what?' said Agnes. And then she had a sudden feeling that she'd intruded on some private conversation. Around her there was a babble of voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Giselle said she saw him last week!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's here!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's happening again!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are we all <em class="calibre8">doomed?!' </em>squeaked Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Tommy Cripps gripped Agnes's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's got a face like death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What gho‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's white bone! He has no nose!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of ballet dancers fainted, but carefully, so as not to get their clothes dirty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then how does hue' Agnes began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'I saw him too!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">On cue, the company turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An elderly man advanced across the stage. He wore an ancient opera hat and carried a sack over one shoulder, while his spare hand made the needlessly expansive gestures of someone who has got hold of some direful information and can't wait to freeze all nearby spines. The sack must have contained something alive, because it was bouncing around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw him! Ooooooh yes! Wi' his great black cloak and his white face with no eyes but only two holes where eyes should be! Ooohhhh! And–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He had a mask on?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old man paused and shot her the dark look reserved for all those who insist on injecting a note of sanity when things are getting interestingly ghastly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he had no nose!' he went on, ignoring her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just <em class="calibre8">said </em>that,' muttered Tommy Cripps, in a rather annoyed voice. 'I told them that. They already know that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If he had no nose, how did he sme–' Agnes began, but no one was listening to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you mention about the eyes?' said the old man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was just getting round to the eyes,' snapped Tommy. 'Yes, he had eyes like–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Are</em> we talking about some kind of mask here?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now everyone was giving her that kind of look UFOlogists get when they suddenly say, 'Hey, if you shade your eyes you can see it <em class="calibre8">is</em> just a flock of geese after all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man with the sack coughed and regrouped. 'Like great holes, they were–' he began, but it was clear that it had all been spoiled for him. 'Great holes,' he said sourly. 'That's what I saw. And no nose, I might add, thank you so very much.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Ghost again!' said a scene‑shifter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He jumped out from behind the organ,' said Tommy Cripps. 'Next thing I knew, there was a rope around my neck and I was upside‑down!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The company looked at the man with the sack, in case he could trump this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Great big black holes,' he managed, sticking to what he knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, everyone, what's going on here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An imposing figure strode out of the wings. He had flowing black hair, carefully brushed to give it a carefree alfresco look, but the face underneath was the face of an organizer. He nodded at the old man with the sack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are you staring at, Mr Pounder?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old man looked down. 'I knows what I saw, Mr Salzella,' he said. 'I see <em class="calibre8">lots</em> o' things, I do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As much as is visible through the bottom of a bottle, I have no doubt, you old reprobate. What happened to Tommy?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was the Ghost!' said Tommy, delighted to have centre­stage again. 'He swooped out at me, Mr Salzella! I think my leg is broken,' he added quickly, in the voice of one who is suddenly aware of the time‑off opportunities of the situation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes expected the newcomer to say something like 'Ghosts? There's no such thing.' He had the kind of <em class="calibre8">face</em> that said that.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Instead, he said, 'Back again, is he? Where did he go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't see, Mr Salzella. He just swooped off again!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Some of you help Tommy down to the canteen,' said Salzella. 'And someone else fetch a doctor–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'His leg isn't broken,' said Agnes. 'But that's a nasty rope burn on his neck and he's filled his own ear with paint.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you know about it, miss?' said Tommy. A paint­filled ear didn't sound as though it had the possibilities of a broken leg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've ... er ... had some training,' said Agnes, and then added quickly, 'It's a nasty burn, though, and of course there may be some delayed shock.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Brandy is very good for that, isn't it?' said Tommy. 'Perhaps you could try forcing some between my lips?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you, Perdita. The rest of you, go back to what you were doing,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Big dark holes,' said Mr Pounder. 'Big ones.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, thank you, Mr Pounder. Help Ron with Mr Cripps, will you? Perdita, you come here. And you, Christine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two girls stood before the director of music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did <em class="calibre8">you</em> see anything?' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw a great creature with great flapping wings and great big holes where his eyes should be!!' said Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid I just saw something white up in the ceiling,' said Agnes. 'Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blushed, aware of how useless that sounded. Perdita would have seen a mysterious cloaked figure or something... something <em class="calibre8">interesting</em>...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella smiled at her. 'You mean you just see things that are really there?' he said. 'I can see you haven't been with the opera for long, dear. But I may say I'm pleased to have a level‑headed person around here for once–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">no</em>!' screamed someone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Ghost!!' shrieked Christine, automatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. It's the young man behind the organ,' said Agnes. 'Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Observant as well as level‑headed,' said Salzella. 'Whereas I can see that you, Christine, will fit right in here. What's the matter, André?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A fair‑haired young man peered around the organ pipes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Someone's been smashing things, Mr Salzella,' he said mournfully. 'The pallet springs and the backfalls and everything. Completely ruined. I'm sure I won't be able to get a tune out of it. And it's <em class="calibre8">priceless</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sighed. 'All right. I'll tell <em class="calibre8">Mister</em> Bucket,' he said. 'Thank you, everyone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave Agnes a gloomy nod, and strode off:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'You shouldn't ort to do that to people,' said Nanny Ogg in a vague sort of way, as the coach began to get up speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around with a wide, friendly grin at the now rather dishevelled occupants of the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Morning,' she said, delving into the sack. 'I'm Gytha Ogg, I've got fifteen children, this is my friend Esme Weatherwax, we're going to Ankh‑Morpork, would anyone like an egg sandwich? I've brung plenty. The cat's been sleepin' on them but they're fine, look, they bend back all right. No? Please yourself, I'm sure. Let's see what else we've got... ah, has anybody got an opener for a bottle of beer?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A man in the corner indicated that he might have such a thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine,' said Nanny Ogg. 'Anyone got something to drink a bottle of beer out of?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another man nodded hopefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Nanny Ogg. 'Now, has anybody got a bottle of beer?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny, for once not the centre of attention as all horrified eyes were on Nanny and her sack, surveyed the other occupants of the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The express stage went right over the Ramtops and all the way through the patchwork of little countries beyond. If it cost forty dollars just from Lancre, then it must have cost these people a lot more. What sort of folk spent the best part of two months' wages just to travel fast and uncomfortably?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The thin man who sat clutching his bag was probably a spy, she decided. The fat man who'd volunteered the glass looked as if he sold things; he had the unpleasant complexion of someone who'd hit too many bottles but missed too many meals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were huddled together on their seat because the rest of it was occupied by a man of almost wizardly proportions. He didn't appear to have woken up when the coach stopped. There was a handkerchief over his face. He was snoring with the regularity of a geyser, and looked as though the only worries he might have in the world were a tendency for small objects to gravitate towards him and the occasional tide.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg continued to rummage around in her bag and, as was the case when she was preoccupied, her mouth had wired itself to her eyeballs without her brain intervening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was used to travelling by broomstick. Longdistance ground travel was a novelty to her, so she'd prepared with some care.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...lessee now... book of puzzles for long journeys ... cushion ... foot powder ... mosquito trap... phrase book... bag to be sick into... oh dear...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The audience, which against all probability had managed to squeeze itself further away from Nanny during the litany, waited with horrified interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How often d'you reckon this coach stops?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's the matter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should've gone before we left. Sorry. It's the jolting. Anyone know if there's a privy on this thing?' she added brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er,' said the probable spy, 'we generally wait until the next stop, or–' He stopped. He had been about to add 'there's always the window', which was a manly option on the bumpier rural stretches, but he stopped himself in the horrible apprehension that this ghastly old woman might seriously consider the possibility.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's Ohulan just a bit further on the road,' said Granny, who was trying to doze. 'You just wait.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This coach doesn't stop at Ohulan,' said the spy helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax raised her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Up until now, that is,' said the spy.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket was sitting in his office trying to make sense of the Opera House's books.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They didn't make <em class="calibre8">any</em> kind of sense. He reckoned he was as good as the next man at reading a balance‑sheet, but these were to book‑keeping what grit was to clockwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seldom Bucket had always enjoyed opera. He didn't understand it and never had, but he didn't understand the ocean either and he enjoyed that, too. He'd looked upon the purchase as, well, something to do, a sort of working retirement. The offer had been too good to pass up. Things had been getting pretty tough in the wholesale cheese‑and‑milk-derivatives business, and he'd been looking forward to the quieter climes of the world of art.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The previous owners had put on some good operas. It was only a shame that their genius hadn't run to book­keeping as well. Money seemed to have been taken out of the accounts when anyone needed it. The financial‑record system largely consisted of notes on torn bits of paper saying: 'I've taken $30 to pay Q. See you Monday. R.' Who was R? Who was Q? What was the money for? You wouldn't get away with this sort of thing in the world of cheese.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up as the door opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Salzella,' he said. 'Thank you for coming. You don't know who Q is, by any chance?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Mr Bucket.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or R?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid not.' Salzella pulled up a chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's taken me all morning, but I've worked out we pay more than fifteen hundred dollars a year for ballet shoes,' said Bucket, waving a piece of paper in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella nodded. 'Yes, they do rather go through them at the toes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, it's ridiculous! I've still got a pair of boots belonging to my father!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But ballet shoes, sir, are rather more like foot gloves,' Salzella explained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're telling me! They cost seven dollars a pair and they last hardly any time at all! A few performances! There must be <em class="calibre8">some </em>way we can make a saving... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella gave his new employer a long, cool stare. 'Possibly we could ask the girls to spend more time in the air?' he said. 'A few extra <em class="calibre8">grands</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">jetes?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked puzzled. 'Would that work?' he said suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, their feet wouldn't be on the ground for so long, would they?' said Salzella, in the tones of one who knows for a fact that he's much more intelligent than anyone else in the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good point. Good point. Have a word with the ballet mistress, will you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course. I am sure she will welcome the suggestion. You may well have halved costs at a stroke.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket beamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Which is perhaps just as well,' said Salzella. 'There is, in fact, another matter that I've come to see you about...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is to do with the organ we had.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Had? What do you mean, <em class="calibre8">had?' </em>said Bucket, adding, 'You're going to tell me something expensive, are you? What have we got now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A lot of pipes and some keyboards,' said Salzella. 'Everything else has been smashed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Smashed? Who by?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella leaned back. He was not a man to whom amusement came easily, but he realized that he was rather enjoying this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell me,' he said, 'when Mr Pnigeus and Mr Cavaille sold you this Opera House, did they mention anything... supernatural?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket scratched his head. 'Well... yes. After I'd signed and paid. It was a bit of a joke. They said: "Oh, and by the way, people say there's some man in evening dress who haunts the place, haha, ridiculous, isn't it, these theatrical people, like children really, haha, but you may find it keeps them happy if you always keep Box Eight free on first nights, haha." I remember that quite well. Handing over thirty thousand dollars concentrates the memory a bit. And then they rode off: Quite a fast carriage, now I come to think about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Salzella, and he almost smiled. 'Well, now that the ink is dry, I wonder if I might fill you in on the fine detail...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You make yourself useful, Esme Weatherwax,' said the voice from the bushes, 'by obligin' me and findin' any dock or burdock plants that might happen to be around out there, thank you very much.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Herbs? What're you plannin' with them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm plannin' to say, "Thank goodness, big leaves, just what I need." '</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Birds sang. The wind rattled the dried seed‑heads of moorland flowers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax poked in the ditches to see if there were any interesting herbs hereabouts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">High over the hills, a buzzard screamed and wheeled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach stood by the side of the road, despite the fact that it should have been speeding along at least twenty miles away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At last Granny grew bored, and sidled towards a clump of gorse bushes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How're you doing, Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine, fine,' said a muffled voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only I reckon the coach driver is getting a bit impatient.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't hurry Nature,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, don't blame me. <em class="calibre8">You</em> was the one who said it was too draughty on the broomsticks.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Some distance from the bushes where Nanny Ogg was communing with Nature there was, placid under the autumn sky, a lake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the reeds, a swan was dying. Or was due to die. There was, however, an unforeseen snag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death sat down on the bank.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NOW LOOK, 
    he said, 
    I KNOW HOW IT IS SUPPOSED TO GO. SWANS SING JUST ONCE, BEAUTIFULLY, BEFORE THEY DIE. THAT'S WHERE THE WORD 'SWANSONG' ORIGINATES. IT IS VERY MOVING. NOW, LET US TRY THIS AGAIN...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He produced a tuning fork from the shadowy recesses of his robe and twanged it on the side of his scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THERE'S YOUR NOTE...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh‑uh,' said the swan, shaking its head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WHY MAKE IT DIFFICULT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I like it here,' said the swan.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH IT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you know I can break a man's arm with a blow of my wing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW ABOUT IF I GET YOU STARTED? DO YOU KNOW 'MOONLIGHT BAY'?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's no more than a barbershop ditty! I happen to be a swan!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'LITTLE BROWN JUG'? 
    Death cleared his throat. 
    HA HA HA, HEE HEE HEE, LITTLE­–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a song?' The swan hissed angrily and swayed from one crabbed foot to the other. 'I don't know who you are, sirrah, but where <em class="calibre8">I</em> come from we've got better taste in music.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">REALLY? WOULD YOU CARE TO SHOW ME AN EXAMPLE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Uh‑uh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">DAMN.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thought you'd got me there, didn't you,' said the swan. 'Thought you'd tricked me, eh? Thought I might unthinkingly give you a couple of bars of the Pedlar's Song from <em class="calibre8">Lohenshaak, </em>eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I DON'T KNOW THAT ONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The swan took a deep, laboured breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's the one that goes <em class="calibre8">"Schneide meinen eigenen Hals‑" '</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK <em class="calibre8">YOU</em>, 
    said Death. The scythe moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Bugger!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment later the swan stepped out of its body and ruffled fresh but slightly transparent wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now what?' it said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THAT'S UP TO YOU. IT'S ALWAYS UP TO YOU.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket leaned back in his creaky leather chair with his eyes shut until his director of music had finished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So,' Bucket said. 'Let me see if I've got this right. There's this Ghost. Every time anyone loses a hammer in this place, it's been stolen by the Ghost. Every time someone cracks a note, it's because of the Ghost. But <em class="calibre8">also, </em>every time someone <em class="calibre8">finds </em>a lost object, it's because of the Ghost. Every time someone has a very good scene, it must be because of the Ghost. He sort of comes with the building, like the rats. Every so often someone sees him, but not for long because he comes and goes like a... well, a Ghost. Apparently we let him use Box Eight for <em class="calibre8">free </em>on every first‑night performance. And you say people <em class="calibre8">like </em>him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Like" isn't quite the right word,' said Salzella. 'It would be more correct to say that... well, it's pure superstition, of course, but they think he's lucky. <em class="calibre8">Thought </em>he was, anyway.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     And you wouldn't understand a thing about that, would you, you coarse little cheesemonger, 
    </em>
    he added to himself. <em class="calibre8">Cheese is cheese. Milk goes rotten naturally. You don't have to make it happen by having several hundred people wound up until their nerves go twang...</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lucky,' said Bucket flatly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Luck is very important,' said Salzella, in a voice in which pained patience floated like ice cubes. 'I imagine that temperament is not an important factor in the cheese business?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We rely on rennet,' said Bucket. ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sighed. 'Anyway, the company feel that the Ghost is... lucky. He used to send people little notes of encouragement. After a really good performance, sopranos would find a box of chocolates in their dressing-­room, that sort of thing. And dead flowers, for some reason.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Dead 
    </em>
    flowers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, not flowers at all, as such. Just a bouquet of dead rose‑stems with no roses on them. It's something of a trademark of his. It's considered lucky.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dead flowers are lucky?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Possibly. Live flowers, certainly, are terribly bad luck on stage. Some singers won't even have them in their dressing-­room. So... dead flowers are safe, you might say. Odd, but safe. And it didn't worry people because everyone thought the Ghost was on their side. At least, they did. Until about six months ago.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket shut his eyes again. 'Tell me,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There have been... accidents.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What kind of accidents?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The kind of accidents that you prefer to call... accidents.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket's eyes stayed closed. 'Like... the time when Reg Plenty and Fred Chiswell were working late one night up on the curdling vats and it turned out Reg had been seeing Fred's wife and somehow–' Bucket swallowed –'somehow he must have tripped, Fred said, and fallen–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am not familiar with the gentlemen concerned but... <em class="calibre8">that</em> kind of accident. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sighed. 'That was some of the finest Farmhouse Nutty we ever made.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do you want me to tell you about <em class="calibre8">our </em>accidents?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure you're going to.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A seamstress stitched herself to the wall. A deputy stage manager was found stabbed with a prop sword. Oh, and you wouldn't like me to tell you what happened to the man who worked the trapdoor. And all the lead mysteriously disappeared from the roof, although personally I don't think that was the work of the Ghost.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And everyone... calls these... accidents?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you wanted to sell your cheese, didn't you? I can't imagine anything that would depress the house like news that dead bodies are dropping like flies out of the flies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took an envelope out of his pocket and placed it on the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost likes to leave little messages,' he said. 'There was one by the organ. A scenery painter spotted him and ....nearly had an accident.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sniffed the envelope. It reeked of turpentine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The letter inside was on a sheet of the Opera House's own notepaper. In neat, copperplate writing, it said:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Ahahahahaha! Ahahahaha! Aahahaha! 
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     BEWARE!!!!!
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             Yrs Sincerely,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             
                The Opera Ghost
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'What sort of person,' said Salzella patiently, 'sits down and <em class="calibre8">writes </em>a maniacal laugh? And all those exclamation marks, you notice? Five? A sure sign of someone who wears his underpants on his head. Opera can do that to a man. Look, at least let's search the building. The cellars go on for ever. I'll need a boat–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A <em class="calibre8">boat? </em>In the <em class="calibre8">cellar?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Didn't they tell you about the sub‑basement?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket smiled the bright, crazed smile of a man who was nearing double exclamation marks himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' he said. 'They didn't tell me about the subbasement. They were too busy not telling me that someone goes around killing the company. I don't recall anyone saying "Oh, by the way, people are dying a lot, and incidentally there's a touch of rising damp‑" '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're flooded.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, good!' said Bucket. 'What with? Buckets of blood?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't you have a look?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They said the cellars were fine!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you believed them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there was rather a lot of champagne...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sighed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket took offence at the sigh. 'I happen to pride myself that I am a good judge of character,' he said. 'Look a man deeply in the eye and give him a firm handshake and you know everything about him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, blast... Senor Enrico Basilica will be here the day after tomorrow. Do you think something might happen to him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, not much. Cut throat, perhaps.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? You think so?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How should I know?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you want me to do? Close the place? As far as I can see it doesn't make any money as it is! Why hasn't anyone told the Watch?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That would be <em class="calibre8">worse</em>,' said Salzella. 'Big trolls in rusty chainmail tramping everywhere, getting in everyone's way and asking stupid questions. They'd close us down.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket swallowed. 'Oh, we can't have that,' he said. 'Can't have them... putting everyone on edge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sat back. He seemed to relax a little. 'On edge? Mr Bucket,' he said, 'this is <em class="calibre8">opera. Everyone </em>is<em class="calibre8"> always </em>on edge. Have you ever heard of a catastrophe curve, Mr Bucket?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Seldom Bucket did his best. 'Well, I know there's a dreadful bend in the road up by–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A catastrophe curve, Mr Bucket, is what opera runs along. Opera happens because a large number of things amazingly fail to go wrong, Mr Bucket. It works because of hatred and love and nerves. All the time. This isn't cheese. This is opera. If you wanted a quiet retirement, Mr Bucket, you shouldn't have bought the Opera House. You should have done something peaceful, like alligator dentistry.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was easily bored. But, on the other hand, she was also easy to amuse.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly an interestin' way to travel,' she said. 'You do get to see places.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Granny. 'Every five miles, it seems to me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't think what's got into me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I shouldn't think the horses have managed to get faster'n a walk all morning.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were, by now, alone except for the huge snoring man. The other two had got out and joined the travellers on top.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The main cause of this was Greebo. With a cat's unerring instinct for people who dislike cats he'd leapt heavily into their laps and given them the 'young masser back on de ole plantation' treatment. And he'd treadled them into submission and then settled down and gone to sleep, claws gripping not sufficiently to draw blood but definitely to suggest that this was an option should the person move or breathe. And then, when he was sure they were resigned to the situation, he'd started to smell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one knew where it came from. It was not associated with any known orifice. It was just that, after five minutes' doze, the air above Greebo had a penetrating smell of fermented carpets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was now trying it out on the very large man. It wasn't working. At last Greebo had found a stomach too big for him. Also, the continuing going up and down was beginning to make him feel ill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snores reverberated around the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wouldn't like to come between <em class="calibre8">him</em> and his pudding,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was staring out of the window. At least, her face was turned that way, but her eyes were focused on infinity.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mind if I ask you a question?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't normally ask if I mind,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Doesn't it ever get you down, the way people don't think properly?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh‑oh, thought Nanny. I reckon I got her out just in time. Thank goodness for literature.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How d'you mean?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I means the way they distracts themselves.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't say I ever really thought about it, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like...s'pose I was to say to you, Gytha Ogg, your house is on fire, what's the first thing you'd try to take out?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny bit her lip. 'This is one of them personality questions, ain't it?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Like, you try to guess what I'm like by what I say...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg, I've known you all my life, I <em class="calibre8">knows</em> what you're like. I don't need to guess. But answer me, all the same.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon I'd take Greebo.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos that shows I've got a warm and considerate nature,' Nanny went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, it shows you're the kind of person who tries to work out what the right answer's supposed to be,' said Granny. 'Untrustworthy. That was a witch's answer if ever I heard one. Devious.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked proud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snores changed to a <em class="calibre8">blurt‑blurt </em>noise and the handkerchief quivered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...treacle pudding, with lots of custard...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, he just said something,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He talks in his sleep,' said Granny Weatherwax. 'He's been doing it on and off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never heard him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were out of the coach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At the last stop he was going on about pancakes with lemon,' said Granny. 'And mashed potatoes with butter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Makes me feel hungry just listening to that,' said Nanny. 'I've got a pork pie in the bag somewhere–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The snoring stopped abruptly. A hand came up and moved the handkerchief aside. The face beyond was friendly, bearded and small. It gave the witches a shy smile which turned inexorably towards the pork pie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Want a slice, mister?' said Nanny. 'I've got some mustard here, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oo, would you, dear lady?' said the man, in a squeaky voice. 'Don't know when I last had a pork pie–oh, dear...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grimaced as if he'd just said something wrong, and then relaxed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got a bottle of beer if you want a drop, too,' said Nanny. She was one of those women who enjoy seeing people eat almost as much as eating itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Beer?' said the man. 'Beer? You know, they don't let me drink beer. Hah, it's supposed to be the wrong ambience. I'd give <em class="calibre8">anything</em> for a pint of beer–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just a "thank you" would do,' said Nanny, passing it over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's this "they" to whom you refers?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S my fault really,' said the man, through a faint spray of pork crumbs. 'Got caught up, I suppose...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a change in the sounds from outside. The lights of a town were going past and the coach was slowing down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man forced the last of the pie into his mouth and washed it down with the dregs of the beer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oo, lovely,' he said. Then he leaned back and put the handkerchief over his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He raised a corner. 'Don't tell anyone I spoke to you,' he said, 'but you've made a friend of Henry Slugg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what do you do, Henry Slugg?' said Granny, carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm... I'm on the stage.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. We can see,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I meant–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach stopped. Gravel crunched as people climbed down. The door was pulled open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny saw a crowd of people peering excitedly through the doorway, and reached up automatically to straighten her hat. But several hands reached out for Henry Slugg, who sat up, smiled nervously, and let himself be helped out. Several people also shouted out a name, but it wasn't the name of Henry Slugg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's Enrico Basilica?' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know,' said Granny. 'Maybe he's the person Mr Slugg's afraid of.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coaching inn was a run‑down shack, with only two bedrooms for guests. As helpless old ladies travelling alone, the witches got one, simply because all hell would have been let loose if they hadn't.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket looked pained.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I may just be a big man in cheese to you,' he said, 'you may think I'm just some hard‑headed businessman who wouldn't know culture if he found it floating in his tea, but I have been a patron of the opera here and elsewhere for many years. I can hum nearly the whole of–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am sure you've <em class="calibre8">seen </em>a lot of opera,' said Salzella. 'But... how much do you know about production?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been behind the scenes in lots of theatres–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">theatre,' </em>said Salzella. 'Theatre doesn't even approach it. Opera isn't theatre with singing and dancing. Opera's <em class="calibre8">opera</em>. You might think a production like <em class="calibre8">Lohenshaak </em>isfull of passion, but it's a sandpit of toddlers compared to what goes on behind the scenes. The singers all loathe the sight of one another, the chorus despises the singers, they both hate the orchestra, and everyone fears the conductor; the staff on one prompt side won't talk to the staff on the opposite prompt side, the dancers are all crazed from hunger in any case, and that's only the start of it, because what is really–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a series of knocks at the door. They were painfully irregular, as if the knocker were having to concentrate quite hard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come in, Walter,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge shuffled in, a pail dangling at the end of each arm. 'Come to fill your coalscuttle Mr Bucket!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket waved a hand vaguely, and turned back to the director of music. 'You were saying?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella stared at Walter as the man carefully piled lumps of coal in the scuttle, one at a time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Salzella?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh. I'm sorry... what was I saying?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something about it being only the start?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh. Yes. Yes... you see, it's fine for actors. There's plenty of parts for old men. Acting's something you can do all your life. You get <em class="calibre8">better </em>at it. But when your talent is singing or dancing... Time creeps up behind you, all the...' He fumbled for a word, and settled lamely for 'Time. Time is the poison. You watch backstage one night and you'll see the dancers checking all the time in any mirror they can find for that first little imperfection. You watch the singers. Everyone's on edge, everyone knows that this might be their last perfect night, that tomorrow might be the beginning of the end. That's why everyone worries about luck, you see? All the stuff about live flowers being unlucky, you remember? Well, so's green. And real jewellery worn on stage. And real mirrors on stage. And whistling on stage. And peeking at the audience through the main curtains. And using new makeup on a first night. And knitting on stage, even at rehearsals. A yellow clarinet in the orchestra is very unlucky, don't ask me why. And as for stopping a performance before its proper ending, well, that's worst of all. You might as well sit under a ladder and break mirrors.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind Salzella, Walter carefully placed the last lump of coal on the pile in the scuttle and dusted it carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief,' said Bucket; at last. 'I thought it was tough in cheese.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved a hand at the pile of papers and what passed for the accounts. 'I paid thirty thousand for this place,' he said. 'It's in the centre of the city! Prime site! I thought it was hard bargaining!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They'd have probably accepted twenty‑five.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And tell me again about Box Eight. You let this Ghost have it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost considers it is his for every first night, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How does he get in?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one knows. We've searched and searched for secret entrances...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He really doesn't pay?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's worth fifty dollars a night!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There will be trouble if you sell it,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief, Salzella, you're an educated man! How can you sit there so calmly and accept this sort of madness? Some creature in a mask has the run of the place, gets a prime Box all to himself, kills people, and you sit there saying there will be trouble?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I told you: the show must go on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Why</em>? We never said "the cheese must go on"! What's so special about the show going on?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella smiled. 'As far as I understand it,' he said, 'the... power behind the show, the soul of the show, all the effort that's gone into it, call it what you will... it leaks out and spills everywhere. That's why they burble about "the show must go on". It <em class="calibre8">must</em> go on. But most of the company wouldn't even understand why anyone should ask the question.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket glared at the pile of what passed for the Opera House's financial records.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They certainly don't understand book‑keeping! Who does the accounts?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All of us, really,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">All</em> of you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Money gets put in, money gets taken out...' said Salzella vaguely. 'Is it important?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket's jaw dropped. 'Is it <em class="calibre8">important</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because,' Salzella went on, smoothly, 'opera doesn't make money. Opera never makes money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief, man! <em class="calibre8">Important</em>? What'd I ever have achieved in the cheese business, I'd like to know, if I'd said that money wasn't important?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella smiled humourlessly. 'There are people out on the stage right now, sir,' he said, 'who'd say that you would probably have made better cheeses.' He sighed, and leaned over the desk. 'You see,' he said, 'cheese <em class="calibre8">does</em> make money. And opera <em class="calibre8">doesn't</em>. Opera's what you spend money <em class="calibre8">on</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... what do you get out of it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You get opera. You put money in, you see, and opera comes out,' said Salzella wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's no <em class="calibre8">profit</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Profit... profit,' murmured the director of music, Scratching his forehead. 'No, I don't believe I've come across the word.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then how do we manage?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We seem to rub along.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket put his head in his hands. 'I mean,' he muttered, half to himself, 'I knew the place wasn't making much, but I thought that was just because it was run badly. We have big audiences! We charge a mint for tickets! Now I'm told that a Ghost runs around killing people and we don't even make any money!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella beamed. 'Ah, <em class="calibre8">opera,' </em>he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo stalked over the inn's rooftops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Most cats are nervous and ill at ease when taken out of their territory, which is why cat books go on about putting butter on their paws and so on, presumably because constantly skidding into the walls will take the animal's mind off where the walls actually <em class="calibre8">are.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">But Greebo travelled well, purely because he took it for granted that the whole world was his dirtbox.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dropped heavily on to an outhouse roof and padded towards a small open window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo also had a cat's approach to possessions, which was simply that nothing edible had a right to belong to other people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the window came a variety of smells which included pork pies and cream. He squeezed through and dropped on to the pantry shelf.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, sometimes he got caught. At least, sometimes he got <em class="calibre8">discovered...</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">There <em class="calibre8">was </em>cream. He settled down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was halfway down the bowl when the door opened.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's ears flattened. His one good eye sought desperately for an escape route. The window was too high, the person opening the door was wearing a long dress that militated against the old 'through the legs' routine and... and... and... <em class="calibre8">there</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">was no escape...</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">His claws scrabbled on the floor...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh <em class="calibre8">no</em>...<em class="calibre8"> here it came... </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something flipped in his body's morphogenic field. Here was a problem a cat shape couldn't deal with. Oh, well, we know another one...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Crockery crashed around him. Shelves erupted as his head rose. A bag of flour exploded outwards to make room for his broadening shoulders.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cook stared up at him. Then she looked down. And then up. And then, her gaze dragged as though it were on a winch, down again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed desperately at a bowl to cover that part which, as a cat, he never had to worry about exposing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He screamed again, this time because he'd just poured lukewarm pork dripping all over himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His groping fingers found a large copper jellymould. Clasping it to his groinal areas, he barrelled forward and fled out of the pantry and out of the kitchen and out of the dining‑room and out of the inn and into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The spy, who was dining with the travelling salesman, put down his knife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's something you don't often see,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said the salesman, who'd had his back to the excitement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One of those old copper jelly‑moulds. They're worth quite a lot now. My aunt had a very good one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hysterical cook was given a big drink and several members of staff went out into the darkness to investigate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All they found was a jelly‑mould, lying forlornly in the yard.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">At home Granny Weatherwax slept with open windows and an unlocked door, secure in the knowledge that the Ramtops' various creatures of the night would rather eat their own ears than break in. In dangerously civilized lands, however, she took a different view.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I really don't think we <em class="calibre8">need </em>to shove the bed in front of the door, Esme,' said Nanny Ogg, heaving on her end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't be too careful,' said Granny. 'Supposing some man started rattlin' the knob in the middle of the night?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not at our time of life,' said Nanny sadly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg, you are the most–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was interrupted by a watery sound. It came from behind the wall and went on for some time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stopped, and then started again–a steady splashing that gradually became a trickle. Nanny started to grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Someone fillin' a bath?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...or I suppose it could be someone fillin' a bath,' Nanny conceded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of a third jug being emptied. Footsteps left the room. A few seconds later a door opened and there was a rather heavier tread, followed after a brief interval by a few splashes and a grunt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, a man gettin' into a bath,' said Granny. 'What're you doin', Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seem' if there's a knothole in this wood somewhere,' said Nanny. 'Ah, here's one–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come back here!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the singing started. It was a very pleasant tenor voice, given added timbre by the bath itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Show me the way to go home, I'm tired and I want to go to bed–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Someone's enjoyin' themselves, anyway,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑wherever I may roam–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a knock at the distant bathroom door, upon which the singer slipped smoothly into another language:</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     '– per via di terra, mare o schiuma–'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A muffled voice said, 'I've brought you your hotwater bottle, sir.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you verr' mucha,' said the bather, his voice dripping with accent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Footsteps went away in the distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     '–Indicame la strada... 
    </em>
    togo home.' Splash, Splash. 'Good eeeeevening, frieeeends...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, well, well,' said Granny, more or less to herself. 'It seems once again that our Mr Slugg is a secret polyglot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fancy! And you haven't even looked through the knothole,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha, is there anything in the whole world you can't make sound grubby?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not found it yet, Esme,' said Nanny brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">meant</em> that when he mutters in his sleep and sings in his bath he talks just like us, but when he thinks people are listening he comes over all foreign.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's probably to throw that Basilica person off the scent,' Nanny said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I reckon Mr Basilica is very close to Henry Slugg,' said Granny. 'In fact, I reckon that they're one and–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a gentle knock at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's there?' Granny demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's me, ma'am. Mr Slot. This is my tavern.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches pushed the bed aside and Granny opened the door a fraction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?' she said suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... the coachman said you were... witches?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Maybe you could... help us?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's wrong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's my boy...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny opened the door further and saw the woman standing behind Mr Slot. One look at her face was enough. There was a bundle in her arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stepped back. 'Bring him in and let me have a look at him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took the baby from the woman, sat down on the room's one chair, and pulled back the blanket. Nanny Ogg peered over her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm,' said Granny, after awhile. She glanced at Nanny, who gave an almost imperceptible shake of her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a curse on this house, that's what it is,' said Slot. 'My best cow's been taken mortally sick, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? You have a cowshed?' said Granny. 'Very good place for a sickroom, a cowshed. It's the warmth. You better show me where it is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You want to take the boy down there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked at his wife, and shrugged. 'Well, I'm sure you know your business best,' he said. 'It's this way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He led the witches down some back stairs and across a yard and into the foetid sweet air of the byre. A cow was stretched out on the straw. It rolled an eye madly as‑they entered, and tried to moo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny took in the scene and stood looking thoughtful for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she said, 'This will do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you need?' said Slot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just peace and quiet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man scratched his head. 'I thought you did a chant or made up some potion or something,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sometimes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, I know where there's a toad...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All I shall require is a candle,' said Granny. 'A new one, for preference.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's all?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Slot looked a little put out. Despite his distraction, something about his manner suggested that Granny Weatherwax was possibly not that much of a witch if she didn't want a toad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And some matches,' said Granny, noting this. 'A pack of cards might be useful, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I'll need three cold lamb chops and exactly two pints of beer,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man nodded. This didn't sound too toad‑like, but it was better than nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What'd you ask for that for?' hissed Granny, as the man bustled off. 'Can't imagine what good those'd do! Anyway, you already had a big dinner.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'm always prepared to go that extra meal. You won't want me around and I'll get bored,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did I say I didn't want you around?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... even I can see that boy is in a coma, and the cow has the Red Bugge if I'm any judge. That's bad, too. So I reckon you're planning some... direct action.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny shrugged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Time like that, a witch needs to be alone,' said Nanny. 'But you just mind what you're doing, Esme Weatherwax.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The child was brought down in a blanket and made as comfortable as possible. The man followed behind his wife with a tray.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Ogg will do her necessary procedures with the tray in her room,' said Granny haughtily. 'You just leave me in here tonight. And no one is to come in, right? No matter what.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mother gave a worried curtsey. 'But I thought I might look in about midn–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one. Now, off you go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When they'd been gently but firmly ushered out, Nanny Ogg stuck her head around the door. 'What <em class="calibre8">exactly</em> are you planning, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've sat up with the dyin' often enough, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes, it's...' Nanny's face fell. 'Oh, Esme... you're not going to...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Enjoy your supper, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny closed the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She spent some time arranging boxes and barrels so that she had a crude table and something to sit on. The air was warm and smelled of bovine flatulence. Periodically she checked the health of both patients, although there was little enough to check.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the distance the sounds of the inn gradually subsided. The last one was the clink of the innkeeper's keys as he locked the doors. Granny heard him walk across to the cowshed door and hesitate. Then he went away, and began to climb the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waited a little longer and then lit the candle. Its cheery flame gave the place a warm and comforting glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the plank table she laid out the cards and attempted to play Patience, a game she'd never been able to master.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The candle burned down. She pushed the cards away, and sat watching the flame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After some immeasurable piece of time the flame flickered. It would have passed unnoticed by anyone who hadn't been concentrating on it for some while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took a deep breath and–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good morning,' said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">GOOD MORNING, 
    said a voice by her ear.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg had long ago polished off the chops and the beer, but she hadn't got into bed. She lay on it, fully clothed, with her arms behind her head, staring at the dark ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a while there was a scratching on the shutters. She got up and opened them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A huge figure leapt into the room. For a moment the moonlight lit a glistening torso and a mane of black hair. Then the creature dived under the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, deary deary me,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She waited for a while, and then fished a chop bone off her tray. There was still a bit of meat on it. She lowered it towards the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand shot out and grabbed it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poor little man,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was only on the subject of Greebo that Nanny's otherwise keen sense of reality found itself all twisted. To Nanny Ogg he was merely a larger version of the little fluffy kitten he had once been. To everyone else he was a scarred ball of inventive malignancy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But now he had to deal with a problem seldom encountered by cats. The witches had, a year ago, turned him into a human, for reasons that had seemed quite necessary at the time. It had taken a lot of effort, and his morphogenic field had reasserted itself after a few hours, much to everyone's relief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But magic is never as simple as people think. It has to obey certain universal laws. And one is that, no matter how hard a thing is to do, once it has been done it'll become a whole lot easier and will therefore be done a lot. A huge mountain might be scaled by strong men only after many centuries of failed attempts, but a few decades later grandmothers will be strolling up it for tea 'and then wandering back afterwards to see where they left their glasses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In accordance with this law, Greebo's soul had noted that there was one extra option for use in a tight corner (in addition to the usual cat assortment of run, fight, crap or all three together) and that was: Become Human.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It tended to wear off after a short time, most of which he spent searching desperately for a pair of pants.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were snores from under the bed. Gradually, to Nanny's relief, they turned into a purr.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she sat bolt upright. She was some way from the cowshed but...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">He's </em>here,' she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny breathed out, slowly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come and sit where I can see you. That's good manners. And let me tell you right now that I ain't at all afraid of you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tall, black‑robed figure walked across the floor and sat down on a handy barrel, leaning its scythe against the wall. Then it pushed back its hood. Granny folded her arms and stared calmly at the visitor, meeting his gaze eye‑to‑socket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I AM IMPRESSED.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I have faith.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">REALLY? IN WHAT PARTICULAR DEITY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, none of <em class="calibre8">them.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEN FAITH IN WHAT?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just faith, you know. In general.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death leaned forward. The candlelight raised new shadows on his skull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">COURAGE IS EASY BY CANDLELIGHT. YOUR FAITH, I SUSPECT, IS IN THE FLAME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny leaned forward, and blew out the candle. Then she folded her arms again and stared fiercely ahead of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After some length of time a voice said, 
    ALL RIGHT, YOU'VE MADE YOUR POINT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny lit a match. Its flare illuminated the skull opposite, which hadn't moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fair enough,' she said, as she relit the candle. 'We don't want to be sitting here all night, do we? How many have you come for?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ONE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The cow?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It could <em class="calibre8">be </em>the cow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO. THAT WOULD BE CHANGING HISTORY.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'History is about things changing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">NO.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then I challenge you to a game. That's traditional. That's <em class="calibre8">allowed.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death was silent for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THIS IS TRUE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">CHALLENGING ME BY MEANS OF A GAME IS ALLOWABLE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOWEVER... YOU UNDERSTAND THAT TO WIN ALL YOU MUST GAMBLE ALL?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Double or quits? Yes, I know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT NOT CHESS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't abide chess.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     OR
    </em>
    
    CRIPPLE MR ONION. I'VE NEVER BEEN ABLE TO UNDERSTAND THE RULES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very well. How about one hand of poker? Five cards each, no draws? Sudden death, as they say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death thought about this, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU KNOW THIS FAMILY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THEN WHY?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are we talking or are we playing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, VERY WELL.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked up the pack of cards and shuffled it, not looking at her hands, and smiling at Death all the time. She dealt five cards each, and reached down...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bony hand grasped hers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">BUT <em class="calibre8">FIRST</em>
    <em class="calibre8">
     , 
    </em>
    MISTRESS WEATHERWAX–WE WILL EXCHANGE CARDS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the two piles and transposed them, and then nodded at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MADAM?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked at her cards, and threw them down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">FOUR QUEENS<em class="calibre8">. H</em>MM. THAT <em class="calibre8">IS</em> VERY HIGH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death looked down at his cards, and then up into Granny's steady, blue‑eyed gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Neither moved for some time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Death laid the hand on the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I LOSE, 
    he said. 
    ALL I HAVE IS FOUR ONES.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked back into Granny's eyes for a moment. There was a blue glow in the depth of his eye sockets. Maybe, for the merest fraction of a second, barely noticeable even to the closest observation, one winked off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded, and extended a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She prided herself on the ability to judge people by their gaze and their handshake, which in this case was a rather chilly one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take the cow,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">IT IS A VALUABLE CREATURE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who knows what the child will become?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death stood up, and reached for his scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He said, 
    OW
    .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes. I couldn't help noticing,' said Granny Weatherwax, as the tension drained out of the atmosphere, 'that you seem to be sparing that arm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OH, YOU KNOW HOW IT IS. REPETITIVE ACTIONS AND SO ON...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It could get serious if you left it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">HOW SERIOUS?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Want me to have a look?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WOULD YOU MIND? IT CERTAINLY ACHES ON COLD NIGHTS.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stood up and reached out, but her hands went straight through.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, you're going to have to make yourself a bit more solid if I'm to do anything–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">POSSIBLY A BOTTLE OF SUCKROSE AND AKWA?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sugar and water? I expect you <em class="calibre8">know</em> that's only for the hard of thinking. Come on, roll up that sleeve. Don't be a big baby. What's the worst I can do to you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's hands touched smooth bone. She'd felt worse. At least these had never had flesh on them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt, thought, gripped, twisted...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a click.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">OW.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now try it above the shoulder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">ER. HMM. YES. IT DOES SEEM CONSIDERABLY MORE FREE. YES, INDEED. MY WORD, YES. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If it gives you trouble again, you know where I live.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know where everyone lives. Tuesday mornings is a good time. I'm generally in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I SHALL REMEMBER. THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By appointment, in your case. No offence meant..'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death walked away. A moment later there was a faint gasp from the cow. That and a slight sagging of the skin were all that apparently marked the transition from living animal to cooling meat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked up the baby and laid a hand on its forehead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fever's gone,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">MISTRESS WEATHERWAX? 
    said Death from the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Sir?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I HAVE TO KNOW. WHAT WOULD HAVE HAPPENED IF I HAD NOT... LOST?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At the cards, you mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE DONE?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny laid the baby down carefully on the straw, and smiled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well,' she said, 'for a start... I'd have broken your bloody arm.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stayed up late, simply because of the novelty. Most people in Lancre, as the saying goes, went to bed with the chickens and got up with the cows. But she watched the evening's performance, and watched the set being struck afterwards, and watched the actors leave or, in the case of younger chorus members, head off for their lodgings in odd corners of the building. And then there was no one else, except Walter Plinge and his mother sweeping up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She headed for the staircase. There didn't seem to be a candle anywhere back here, but the few left burning in the auditorium were just enough to give the darkness a few shades.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stairs went up the wall at the rear of the stage, with nothing but a rickety handrail between them and the drop. Besides leading to the attics and storeroom on the upper floors, they were also one route to the fly loft and the other secret platforms where men in flat hats and grey overalls worked the magic of the theatre, usually by means of pulleys–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a figure on one of the gantries over the stage. Agnes saw it only because it moved slightly. It was kneeling down, looking at something. In the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stepped back. The stair creaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure jerked around. A square of yellow light opened in the darkness, its beam pinning her against the brickwork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's there?' she said, raising a hand to shade her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's <em class="calibre8">that</em>?' said a voice. And then, after a moment, 'Oh. It's... Perdita, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The square of light swung towards her as the figure made its way over the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'André?' she said. She felt inclined to back away, if only the brickwork would let her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And suddenly he was on the stairs, quite an ordinary person, no shadow at all, holding a very large lantern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are you doing here?' said the organist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... was just going to bed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Yes.' He relaxed a little. 'Some of you girls have got rooms here. The management thought it was safer than having you going home alone late at night.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are you doing up here?' said Agnes, suddenly aware that there was just the two of them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was... looking at the place where the Ghost tried to strangle Mr Cripps,' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">,Why?.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wanted to make certain everything was safe now, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't the stage‑hands do that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know them. I just thought I'd better make certain.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked down at the lantern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've never seen one like that before. How did you make it light up so quickly?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. It's a dark lantern. There's this flap, you see,' he demonstrated, 'so you can shut it right down and open it up again...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That must be very useful when you're looking for the black notes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't be sarcastic. I just don't want there to be any more trouble. You'll find that you start looking around when–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good<em class="calibre8">night</em>, André.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Goodnight, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried up the rest of the flights and ducked into her bedroom. No one followed her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When she'd calmed down, which took some time, she undressed in the voluminous tent of her red flannel nightdress and got into bed, resisting any temptation to pull the covers over her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at the dark ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's stupid,' she thought, eventually. 'He was on the stage this morning. <em class="calibre8">No</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">one</em> could move that fast...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She never knew whether she actually got some sleep or whether it happened just as she was dozing off, but there was a very faint knock at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita!?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only one person she knew could exclaim a whisper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes got up and padded over to the door. She opened the door a fraction, just to check, and Christine half‑fell into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's the matter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm frightened!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What of?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The mirror!! It's <em class="calibre8">talking</em> to me!! Can I sleep in your room?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked around. It was crowded enough with the two of them standing up in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The mirror's <em class="calibre8">talking</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you sure?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine dived into Agnes's bed and pulled the covers over her. 'Yes!!' she said, indistinctly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stood alone in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People always tended to assume that she could cope, as if capability went with mass, like gravity. And merely saying briskly, 'Nonsense, mirrors don't talk', would probably not be any help, especially with one half of the dialogue buried beneath the bedclothes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt her way into the next room, stubbing her foot on the bed in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There must be a candle in here, somewhere. She felt for the tiny bedside table, hoping to start the reassuring rattle of a matchbox.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A faint glimmer from the midnight city filtered through the window. The mirror seemed to glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down on the bed, which creaked ominously under her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh well... one bed was as good as another...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was about to lie back when something in the darkness went:... <em class="calibre8">ting.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a tuning fork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And a voice said: 'Christine... please attend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat upright, staring at the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then realization dawned. No men, they'd said. They'd been very strict about that, as if opera were some kind of religion. It was not a problem in Agnes's case, at least in the way they meant, but for someone like Christine... They said love always found a way and, of course, so did a number of associated activities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, good grief. She felt the blush start. In darkness! What kind of a reaction was that?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes's life unrolled in front of her. It didn't look as though it were going to have many high points. But it did hold years and years of being capable and having a lovely personality. It almost certainly held chocolate rather than sex and, while Agnes was not in a position to make a direct comparison, and regardless of the fact that a bar of chocolate could be made to last all day, it did not seem a very fair exchange.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt the same feeling she'd felt back home. Sometimes life reaches that desperate point where the wrong thing to do has to be the right thing to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It doesn't matter what direction you go. Sometimes you just have to <em class="calibre8">go</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gripped the bedclothes and replayed in her mind the way her friend spoke. You had to have that little gulp, that breathless tinkle in the tone that people got whose minds played with the fairies half the time. She tried it out in her head, and then delivered it to her vocal cords.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?! Who's there?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A friend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes pulled the bedclothes up higher. 'In the middle of the <em class="calibre8">night?!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Night is nothing to me. I belong to the night. And I can help you.' It was a pleasant voice. It seemed to be coming from the mirror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Help me to do what?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you want to be the best singer in the opera?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Perdita is a <em class="calibre8">lot </em>better than me!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence for a moment, and then the voice said: 'But while I cannot teach her to look and move like you, I can teach you to sing like her.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stared into the darkness, shock and humiliation rising from her like steam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tomorrow you will sing the part of Iodine. But I will teach you how to sing it <em class="calibre8">perfectly...'</em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Next morning the witches had the interior of the coach almost to themselves. News like Greebo gets around. But Henry Slugg was there, if that was indeed his name, sitting next to a very well‑dressed, thin little man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, here we are again, then,' said Nanny Ogg. Henry smiled nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was some good singing last night,' Nanny went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry's face set in a good‑natured grimace. In his eyes, terror waved a white flag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am afraid Senor Basilica doesn't speak Morporkian, ma'am,' said the thin man. 'But I will translate for you, if you like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Nanny. 'Then how come– <em class="calibre8">Ow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry,' said Granny Weatherwax. 'My elbow must have slipped.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg rubbed her side. 'I was <em class="calibre8">saying,' </em>she said, 'that he was– <em class="calibre8">Ow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dear me, I seem to have done it again,' said Granny. 'This gentleman was telling us that his friend <em class="calibre8">doesn't speak our language, </em>Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Eh? But–What? Oh. But‑ Ah. Really? Oh. All right,' said Nanny. 'Oh, yes. Eats our pies, though, when– <em class="calibre8">Ow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse my friend, it's her time of life. She gets confused,' said Granny. 'We did enjoy his singing. Heard him through the wall.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were very fortunate,' said the thin man primly. 'Sometimes people have to wait years to hear Senor Basilica–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑probably waiting for him to finish his dinner–' a voice muttered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑in fact, at La Scalda in Genua last month his singing made ten thousand people shed tears.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑hah, I can do <em class="calibre8">that, I </em>don't see there's anything special about <em class="calibre8">that–'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's eyes hadn't left Henry 'Senor Basilica' Slugg's face. He had the expression of a man whose profound relief was horribly tempered by a dread that it wouldn't last very long.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Senor Basilica's fame has spread far and wide,' said the manager primly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–just like Senior Basilica,' muttered Nanny. 'On other people's pies, I expect. Oh, yes, too posh for us now, just because he's the only man you could find on an atlas–<em class="calibre8">­Ow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, well,' said Granny, smiling in a way that everyone except Nanny Ogg would think of as innocent. 'It's nice and warm in Genua. I expect Senor Basilica really misses his home. And what do you do, young sir?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am his manager and translator. Er. You have the advantage of me, ma'am.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed.' Granny nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We have some good singers where we come from too,' said Nanny Ogg, rebelliously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?' said the manager. 'And where do you ladies come from?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lancre.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man politely endeavoured to position Lancre on his mental map of great centres of music. 'Do you have a conservatory there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Nanny Ogg stoutly, and then, just to make sure, she added, 'You should see the size of my tomatoes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny rolled her eyes. 'Gytha, you <em class="calibre8">haven't </em>got a conservatory. It's just a big windowsill.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but it catches the sun nearly all day – <em class="calibre8">Ow</em>...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect Senor Basilica is going to Ankh‑Morpork?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We,' said the manager, primly, 'have allowed the Opera House to engage us for the rest of the season–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice faltered. He'd looked up at the luggage rack. 'What's <em class="calibre8">that?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glanced up. 'Oh, that's Greebo,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And Mister Basilica's not to eat him,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's a cat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's <em class="calibre8">grinning</em> at me.' The manager shifted uneasily. 'And I can smell something,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S funny,' said Nanny. 'I can't smell a <em class="calibre8">thing.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a change in the sound of the hooves outside, and the coach lurched as it slowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said the manager awkwardly, 'I... er...I see we're stopping to change horses. It's a, a nice day. I think I may just, er, see if there's room on the seats outside.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He left when the coach stopped. When it started again, a few minutes later, he hadn't come back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, well,' said Granny, as they lurched away again, 'it seems there's just you and me, Gytha. And Senor Basilica, who doesn't speak our language. Does he, Mr Henry Slugg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Slugg took out a handkerchief and wiped his forehead. 'Ladies! Dear ladies! I beg you, for pity's sake...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you done anything bad, Mr Slugg?' said Nanny. 'Took advantage of women who dint want to be took advantage of? Stole? (Apart from lead on roofs and other stuff people wouldn't miss.) Done any murders of anyone who dint deserve it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He tellin' the truth, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry writhed under Granny Weatherwax's stare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, well, that's all right, then,' said Nanny. 'I <em class="calibre8">understand. I </em>don't have to pay taxes myself, but I know all about people not wantin' to.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, it's not that, I assure you,' said Henry. 'I have people to pay my taxes for me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a good trick,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Slugg's got a different trick,' said Granny. 'I reckon I know the trick. It's like sugar and water.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry waved his hands uncertainly. 'It's just that if they knew...' he began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everything's better if it comes from a long way away. That's the secret,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's... yes, that's part of it,' said Henry. 'I mean, no one wants to listen to a Slugg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where're you from, Henry?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Really 
    </em>
    from,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I grew up in Rookery Yard in the Shades. They're in Ankh‑Morpork,' said Henry. 'It was a terrible rough place. There were only three ways out. You could sing your way out or you could fight your way out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What was the third way?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you could go down that little alleyway into Shamlegger Street and then cut down into Treacle Mine Road,' said Henry. 'But no one ever amounted to anything who went <em class="calibre8">that </em>way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed. 'I made a few coppers singing in taverns and suchlike,' he said, 'but when I tried for anything better they said "What is your name?" and I said "Henry Slugg" and they'd laugh. I thought of <em class="calibre8">changing</em> my name, but everyone in Ankh‑Morpork knew who I was. And no one wanted to listen to anyone called plain Henry Slugg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded. 'It's like with conjurers,' she said. 'They're never called Fred Wossname. It's always something like The Great Astoundo, Fresh From the Court of the King of Klatch, and Gladys.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And everyone takes notice,' said Granny, 'and are always careful not to ask themselves: if he's come from the King of Klatch, why's he doing card tricks here in Slice, population seven.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The trick is to make sure that everywhere you go, you are from somewhere else,' said Henry. 'And then I <em class="calibre8">was</em> famous, but...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'd got stuck as Enrico,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded. 'I was only going to do it to make some money. I was going to come back and marry my little Angeline–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who was she?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, a girl I grew up with,' said Henry, vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sharing the same gutter in the back streets of Ankh­-Morpork, kind of thing?' said Nanny, in an understanding voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gutter? In those days you had to put your name down and wait five years for a gutter,' said Henry. 'We thought people in gutters were <em class="calibre8">nobs</em>. <em class="calibre8">We </em>shared a drain. With two other families. And a man who juggled eels.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sighed. 'But I moved on, and then there was always somewhere else to go, and they liked me in Brindisi... and... and...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He blew his nose on the handkerchief, carefully folded it up, and produced another one from his pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't mind the pasta and the squid,' he said. 'Well, not much... But you can't get a .decent pint for love nor money and they put olive oil on everything and tomatoes give me a rash and there isn't what I'd call a good hard cheese in the whole country.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He dabbed at his face with the handkerchief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And people are so kind,' he said. 'I thought I'd get a few beefsteaks when I travelled but, <em class="calibre8">wherever I </em>go, they do pasta especially for me. In tomato sauce! Sometimes they fry it! And what they do to the squid...' He shuddered. 'Then they all grin and watch me eat it. They think I enjoy it! What I'd give for a plate of nice roast mutton with clootie dumplings...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why don't you <em class="calibre8">say</em>?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. 'Enrico Basilica eats pasta,' he said. 'There's not much I can do about it now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat back. 'You're interested in music, Mrs Ogg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded proudly. 'I can get a tune out of just about anything if you give me five minutes to study it,' she said. 'And our Jason can play the violin and our Kev can blow the trombone and all my kids can sing and our Shawn can fart any melody you care to name.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A very talented family, indeed,' said Enrico. He fumbled in a waistcoat pocket and took out two oblongs of cardboard. 'So please, ladies, accept these as a small token of gratitude from someone who eats other people's pies. Our little secret, eh?' He winked desperately at Nanny. 'They're open tickets for the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that's amazin',' said Nanny, 'because we're going to­–<em class="calibre8">Ow</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why, thank you very much,' said Granny Weatherwax, taking the tickets. 'How very gracious of you. We shall be sure to go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And if you'll excuse me,' said Enrico, 'I must catch up on my sleep.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't worry, I shouldn't think it's had time to get far away,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The singer leaned back, pulled the handkerchief over his face and, after a few minutes, began to snore the happy snore of someone who had done his duty and now with any luck wouldn't have to meet these rather disconcerting old women ever again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's well away,' said Nanny, after a while. She glanced at the tickets in Granny's hand. 'You want to visit the opera?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stared into space.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I <em class="calibre8">said, </em>do you want to visit the opera?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked at the tickets. 'What I want don't signify, I suspect;' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was firmly against fiction. Life was hard enough without lies floating around and changing the way people thought. And because the theatre was fiction made flesh, she hated the theatre most of all. But that was it–<em class="calibre8">hate </em>was exactly the right word. Hate is a force of attraction. Hate is just love with its back turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She didn't <em class="calibre8">loathe </em>the theatre, because, had she done so, she would have avoided it completely. Granny now took every opportunity to visit the travelling theatre that came to Lancre, and sat bolt upright in the front row of every performance, staring fiercely. Even honest Punch and Judy men found her sitting among the children, snapping things like ' 'Tain't so!' and 'Is that any way to behave?' As a result, Lancre was becoming known throughout the Sto Plains as a really tough gig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But what she <em class="calibre8">wanted </em>wasn't important. Like it or not, witches are drawn to the edge of things, where two states collide. They feel the pull of doors, circumferences, boundaries, gates, mirrors, masks...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...and stages.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Breakfast was served in the Opera House's refectory at half‑past nine. Actors were not known for their habit of early rising.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes started to fall forward into her eggs and bacon, and stopped herself just in time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Good 
    </em>
    morning!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine sat down with a tray on which was, Agnes was not surprised to see, a plate holding one stick of celery, one raisin and about a spoonful of milk. She leaned towards Agnes and her face very briefly expressed some concern. 'Are you all right?! You look a little peaky!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes caught herself in mid‑snore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm fine,' she said. 'Just a bit tired...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, good!!' This exchange having exhausted her higher mental processes,. Christine went back to operating on automatic. 'Do you like my new dress?!' she exclaimed. 'Isn't it <em class="calibre8">fetching?!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked at it. 'Yes,' she said. 'Very... white. Very lacy. Very figure‑hugging.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And do you know what?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I already have a secret admirer!! Isn't that <em class="calibre8">thrilling?! </em>All the great singers have them, you know!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A secret admirer...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!! This dress!! It arrived at the stage door just now!! Isn't that exciting?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazing,' said Agnes, glumly. 'And it's not as if you've even sung. Er. Who's it from?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He didn't say, of course!! It has to be a <em class="calibre8">secret </em>admirer!! He'll probably want to send me flowers and drink champagne out of my shoe!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?' Agnes made a face. 'Do people <em class="calibre8">do</em> that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's traditional!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine, boiling over with cheerfulness, had some to share...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do look <em class="calibre8">very </em>tired!' she said. Her hand went to her mouth. 'Oh!! We swapped rooms, didn't we!! I was so silly!! And, d'you know,' she added with that look of half­-empty cunning that was the nearest she came to guile, 'I could have <em class="calibre8">sworn</em> I heard singing in the night... someone trying scales and things?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes had been brought up to tell the truth. She knew she should say: 'I'm sorry, I appear to have got your life by mistake. There seems to have been a bit of a confusion...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But, she decided, she'd also been brought up to do what she was told, not to put herself first, to be respectful to her elders and to use no swearword stronger than 'poot'.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could borrow a more interesting future. Just for a night or two. She could give it up any time she liked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know, that's funny,' she said, 'because I'm right next door to you and <em class="calibre8">I</em> didn't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh?! Well, that's all right, then!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stared at the tiny meal on Christine's tray. 'Is that <em class="calibre8">all </em>you're having for breakfast?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes! I can just blow up like a balloon, dear!! It's lucky for you, <em class="calibre8">you</em> can eat anything!! Don't forget it's practice in half an hour!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And she skipped off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She's got a head full of air, Agnes thought. I'm sure she doesn't mean to say anything hurtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But, deep inside her, Perdita X Dream thought a rude word.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge took her broom out of the cleaning cupboard, and turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her voice echoed around the empty stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Walter?'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tapped the broom‑handle warily. Walter had a routine. It had taken her years to train him into it. It wasn't like him not to be in the right place at the right time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shook her head, and started work. She could see it'd be a mop job later. It would probably be ages before they got rid of the smell of turpentine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone came walking across the stage. They were whistling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge was shocked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Pounder!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Opera House's professional ratcatcher stopped, and lowered his struggling sack. Mr Pounder wore an old opera hat to show that he was a cut above your normal rodent operative, and its brim was thick with wax and the old candle ends he used to light his way through the darker cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd worked among the rats so long that there was something rat‑like about him now. His face seemed to be merely a rearward extension of his nose. His moustache was bristly. His front teeth were prominent. People found themselves looking for his tail.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's that, Mrs Plinge?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know you mustn't whistle on stage! That's terrible bad luck!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, well, it's 'cos of <em class="calibre8">good</em> luck, Mrs Plinge. Oh, yes! If you did know what I d'know, you'd be a happy man, too. O' course, in your case you'd be a happy woman, on account of you being a woman. Ah! Some of the things I've seen, Mrs Plinge!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Found gold down there, Mr Pounder?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge knelt down carefully to scrape away a spot of paint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Pounder picked up his sack and continued on his way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could be gold, Mrs Plinge. Ah. Could very <em class="calibre8">well</em> be gold­–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It took a moment for Mrs Plinge to coax her arthritic knees into letting her stand up and shuffle around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pardon, Mr Pounder?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere in the distance, there was a soft thump as a bundle of sandbags landed gently on the boards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stage was big and bare and empty, except for a sack which was scuttling determinedly for freedom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge looked both ways very carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Pounder? Are you there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It suddenly seemed to her that the stage was even bigger and even more distinctly empty than before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Pounder? Cooo‑eee?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She craned around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello? Mr Pounder?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something floated down from above and landed beside her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a grubby black hat, with candle ends around the brim.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Pounder?' she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Pounder was used to darkness. It held no fears for him. And he'd always prided himself on his night vision. If there was any light at all, any speck, any glimmer of phosphorescent rot, he could make use of it. His candled hat was as much for show as anything else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His candled hat... he'd thought I He'd lost it but, it was strange, here it was, still on his head. Yes, indeed. He rubbed his throat thoughtfully. There was something important he couldn't quite remember...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was <em class="calibre8">very </em>dark.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Standing in the air, at eye‑level, was a robed figure about six inches high. A bony nose, with bent grey whiskers, protruded from the hood. Tiny skeletal fingers gripped a very small scythe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Pounder nodded thoughtfully to himself. You didn't rise to membership of the Inner Circle of the Guild of Ratcatchers without hearing a few whispered rumours. Rats had their own Death, they said, as well as their own kings, parliaments and nations. No human had ever seen it, though.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Up until now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He felt honoured. He'd won the Golden Mallet for most rats caught every year for the past five years, but he respected them, as a soldier. might respect a cunning and valiant enemy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I'm dead, aren't I... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Pounder felt that many eyes were watching him. Many small, shining eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And... what happens now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The soul of Mr Pounder looked at his hands. They seemed to be elongating, and getting hairier. He could feel his ears growing, and a certain rather embarrassing elongation happening at the base of his spine. He'd spent most of his life in a single‑minded activity in dark places, yet even so...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I don't <em class="calibre8">believe </em>in reincarnation!' he protested.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SQUEAK.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And this, Mr Pounder understood with absolute rodent clarity, meant: reincarnation believes in <em class="calibre8">you</em>.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket went through his mail very carefully, and finally breathed out when the pile failed to disgorge another letter with the Opera House crest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sat back and pulled open his desk drawer for a pen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an envelope there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at it, and then slowly picked up his paperknife.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Sliiiiit
    </em>
    ...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...rustle...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     I will be obliged if Christine sings the role of Iodine in 'La Triviata' tonight.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     The weather continues fine. I trust you are well.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             Yrs.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             
                The Opera Ghost
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella! Mr <em class="calibre8">Salzella!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket pushed back his chair and hurried to the door, opening it just in time to confront a ballerina, who screamed at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Since his nerves were already strained, he responded by screaming back at her. This seemed to have the effect that usually a wet flannel or a slap was necessary to achieve. She stopped and gave him an affronted look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's struck again, hasn't he!' moaned Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's here! It's the Ghost!' said the girl, determined to get the line out even though it was not required.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, I think I <em class="calibre8">know,' </em>muttered Bucket. 'I just hope it wasn't anybody expensive.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped halfway along the corridor and then spun around. The girl cringed away from his wavering finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At least stand on tiptoe!' he shouted. 'You probably cost me a dollar just running up here!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crowd in a huddle on the stage. In the centre was that new girl, the fat one, kneeling down and comforting an old woman. Bucket vaguely recognized the latter. She was one of the staff that had come with the Opera House, as much part of the whole thing as the rats or the gargoyles that infested the rooftops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was holding something in front of her. 'It just fell out of the flies,' she said. 'His poor hat!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked up. As his eyes grew accustomed to the darkness he made out a shape up among the battens, spinning slowly...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">dear,' </em>he said. 'And I thought he'd written such a <em class="calibre8">polite </em>letter...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Then now read <em class="calibre8">this </em>one,' said Salzella, coming up behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Must I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's addressed to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket unfolded the piece of paper.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Hahahaha! 
    </em>
    <em class="calibre8">
     Ahahahaha!
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Yrs.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     The Opera Ghost
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     PS: Ahahahaha!!!!
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave Salzella an agonized look. 'Who's the poor fellow up there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Pounder, the ratcatcher. Rope dropped around his neck, other end attached to some sandbags. They went down. He went... up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't understand! Is this man <em class="calibre8">mad?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella put an arm around his shoulders and led him away from the crowd. 'Well, now,' he said, as kindly as he could. 'A man who wears evening dress all the time, lurks in the shadows and occasionally kills people. Then he sends little notes, <em class="calibre8">writing </em>maniacal laughter. Five exclamation marks again, I notice. We have to ask ourselves: is this the career of a sane man?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But <em class="calibre8">why </em>ishe doing it?' wailed Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That is only a relevant question if he is sane,' said Salzella calmly. 'He may be doing it because the little yellow pixies tell him to.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sane? How can he be sane?' said Bucket. 'You were right, you know. The atmosphere in this placed drive <em class="calibre8">anyone </em>crazy. I very well may be the only one here with both feet on the ground!' He turned. His eyes narrowed when he saw a group of, chorus girls whispering nervously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You girls! Don't just stand there! Let's see you jump up and down!' he rasped. 'On one leg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He turned back to Salzella. 'What was I saying?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were saying,' said Salzella, 'that you have both feet on. the ground. Unlike the <em class="calibre8">corps</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">de ballet. </em>And the corpse de Mr Pounder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think that comment was in rather poor taste,' said Bucket coldly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My view,' said the director of music, 'is that we should shut down, get all the able‑bodied men together, issue them with torches, go through this place from top to bottom, flush him out, chase him through the city, catch him and beat him to a pulp, and then throw what's left into the river. It's the only way to be sure.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You <em class="calibre8">know</em> we can't afford to shut down,' Bucket said. 'We seem to make thousands a week but we seem to spend thousands a week, too. I'm sure I don't know where it goes‑ I thought running this place was just a matter of getting bums on seats, but every time I look up there's a bum spinning gently in the air‑ What's he going to do next, I ask myself–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at one another and then, as if pulled by some kind of animal magnetism, their gazes turned and flew out over the auditorium until they found the huge, glittering bulk of the chandelier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no...' moaned Bucket. 'He wouldn't, would he? That <em class="calibre8">would </em>shut us down.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sighed. 'Look, it weighs more than a ton,' he said. 'The supporting rope is thicker than your arm. The winch is padlocked when it's not in use. It's <em class="calibre8">safe</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll have a man guard it every minute there's a performance,' said Salzella. 'I'll do it personally, if you like.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he wants Christine to sing Iodine tonight! She's got a voice like a whistle!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella raised his eyebrows. 'That at least is not ,a problem, is it?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't it? It's a key role!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella put his arm around the owner's shoulders. 'I think perhaps it is time for you to explore a few more little-­known corners of the wonderful world that is opera,' he said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The stagecoach rolled to. a halt in Sator Square, Ankh­-Morpork. The coach agent was waiting impatiently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're fifteen hours late, Mr Reever!' he shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach‑driver nodded impassively. He laid the reins down, jumped off the box, and inspected the horses. There was a certain woodenness about his movements.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Passengers were grabbing their baggage and hurrying away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well?' said the agent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We had a picnic,' said the coach‑driver. His face was grey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You stopped for a <em class="calibre8">picnic</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And a bit of a singsong,' said the driver, pulling the horses' feedbags from under the seat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You are telling me that you stopped the mail coach for a picnic and a singsong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, and the cat got stuck up a tree.' He sucked his hand, and the agent noticed that a handkerchief was tied around it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hazy look of recollection clouded the driver's eyes. 'And then there were the stories,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What stories?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The little fat one said everyone had to tell a story to help pass the time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes? Well? I don't see how that could slow you down!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You should've heard <em class="calibre8">her </em>story. The one about the very tall man and the piano? I was so embarrassed I fell off the coach. I wouldn't use words like that even to my own dear grandmother!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And of course,' said the agent, who prided himself on his ironic approach, 'the word <em class="calibre8">timetable </em>never crossed your mind while all this was going on?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The driver turned to look directly at him for the first time. The agent took a step back. Here was a man who had hang‑glided over Hell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> tell them,' said the driver, and walked away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The agent stared after him, and then walked around to the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A small man with a hunted look climbed out, dragging a huge fat man behind him and gabbling urgently in a language the agent didn't understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the agent was left alone with a coach and horses and an expanding circle of hurrying passengers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He opened the door and peered inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good morning, mister,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked, in some puzzlement, from her to Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is everything all right, ladies?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very nice journey,' said Nanny Ogg, taking his arm. 'We shall def'nitly patronize you another time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The driver seemed to think there was a problem...,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Problem?' said Granny. 'I didn't notice any problems. Did you, Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He could've been a bit quicker fetching the ladder,' said Nanny, climbing down. 'And I'm sure he muttered something under his breath that time we stopped to admire the view. But I'm prepared to be gracious about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You stopped to admire the <em class="calibre8">view?' </em>said the agent. 'When?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, several times,' said Nanny. 'No sense in rushing around the whole time, is there? More haste less speed, ekcetra. Could you point us in the direction of Elm Street? Only we've lodgings at Mrs Palm's. Our Nev speaks highly of the place, he says no one ever looked for him there...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The agent stepped back, as people generally did in the face of Nanny's pump‑action chatter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Elm Street?' he stuttered. 'But... <em class="calibre8">respectable</em> ladies shouldn't go there...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny patted him on the shoulder. 'That's good,' she said. 'That way we won't run into anyone we know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Granny walked past the horses they tried to hide behind the coach.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket smiled brightly. There were little beads of sweat around the edges of his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Perdita,' he said. 'Do sit down, lass. Er. You are enjoying your time with us so far?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, thank you, Mr Bucket,' said Agnes dutifully. 'Good. That's good. Isn't that good, Mr Salzella? Don't you think that's good, Dr Undershaft?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked at the three worried faces.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're all very pleased,' said Mr Bucket. 'And, er, well, we have an <em class="calibre8">amazing</em> offer for you which I'm sure will help you to enjoy it <em class="calibre8">even more.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes watched the assembled faces. 'Yes?' she said guardedly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know you, er, have only been with us hardly any time but we have decided to, er'‑ Bucket swallowed, and glanced at the other two for moral support–'let you sing the part of Iodine in tonight's production of <em class="calibre8">La</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">Triviata.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um. It isn't <em class="calibre8">the </em>major role but of course it does include the famous "Departure" aria...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... there is, er... that is, er...' Bucket gave up and looked helplessly at his director of music. 'Mr Salzella?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella leaned forward. 'What in fact we would like you to do... Perdita... is <em class="calibre8">sing </em>the role, indeed, but not, in fact... <em class="calibre8">play</em> the role.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes listened while they explained. She'd stand in the chorus, just behind Christine. Christine would be told to sing very softly. It had been done dozens of times before, Salzella explained. It was done far more often than the audiences ever realized–when singers had a sore throat, or had completely dried, or had turned up so drunk they could barely stand, or, in one notorious instance many years previously, had died in the interval and subsequently sung their famous aria by means of a broom‑handle stuck up their back and their jaw operated with a piece of string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't immoral. The show had to go on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ring of desperately grinning faces watched her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I could just walk away, she thought. Walk away from these grinning faces and the mysterious Ghost. They couldn't stop me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there's nowhere to walk to except back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, er, yes,' she said. 'I'm very... er... but why do it like this? Couldn't I simply take her place and sing the part?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The men looked at one another, and then all started talking at once.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but you see, Christine is... has... more stage experience–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–technical grasp–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–stage presence–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–apparent lyrical ability–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–fits the costume–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked down at her big hands. She could feel the blush advancing like a barbarian horde, burning everything as it came.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We would like you, as it were,' said Bucket, 'to <em class="calibre8">ghost </em>the part...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ghost?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a stage term,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I see,' said Agnes. 'Yes. Well, of course. I shall certainly do my best.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Jolly</em> good,' said Bucket. 'We won't forget this. And I'm certain a very suitable part for you will come along very soon. See Dr Undershaft this afternoon and he will take you through the role.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. I know it quite well, I think,' said Agnes, uncertainly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? How?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been... taking lessons.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That <em class="calibre8">is</em> good, lass,' said Mr Bucket. 'Shows keenness. We're very impressed. But see Dr Undershaft in any case...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes got up and, still looking down, trooped out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Undershaft sighed and shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poor child,' he said. 'Born too late. Opera <em class="calibre8">used </em>to be just about voices. You know, I remember the days of the great sopranos. Dame Violetta Gigh, Dame Clarissa Extendo... whatever became of them, I sometimes wonder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't the climate change?' said Salzella nastily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There goes a figure that should prompt a revival of <em class="calibre8">The Ring of the Nibelungingung,' </em>Undershaft went on. 'Now that was an opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three days of gods shouting at one another and twenty minutes of memorable tunes?' said Salzella. 'No, thank you very much.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But can't you hear her singing Hildabrun, leader of the Valkyries?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Oh, yes. But unfortunately I can also hear her singing Nobbo the dwarf and lo, Chief of the Gods.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Those were the days,' said Undershaft sadly, shaking his head. 'We had <em class="calibre8">proper </em>opera then. I recall when Dame Veritasi stuffed a musician into his own tuba for yawning–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes, but this is the Century of the Fruitbat,' said Salzella, standing up. He glanced at the door again, and shook his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazing,' he said. 'Do you think she knows how fat she is?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The door of Mrs Palm's discreet establishment opened at Granny's knock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The person on the other side was a young woman. Very obviously a young woman. There was no possible way that she could have been mistaken for a young man in any language, especially Braille.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny peered around the young lady's powdered shoulder at the red plush and gilt interior beyond, and then up at Granny Weatherwax's impassive face, and then back at the young lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll tan our Nev's hide when I get home,' she muttered. 'Come away, Esme, you don't want to go in there. It'd take too long to explain–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why, Granny Weatherwax!' said the girl happily. 'And who's this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked up at Granny, whose expression hadn't changed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nanny Ogg,' Nanny said eventually. 'Yes, I'm Nanny Ogg. Nev's mum,' she added darkly. 'Yes, indeed. Yes. On account of me bein' a'–the words 'respectable widow woman' tried to range themselves in her vocal cords, and shrivelled at the sheer enormity of the falsehood, forcing her to settle for 'mother to him. Nev. Yes. Nev's mum.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello, Colette,' said Granny. 'What fascinatin' earrings you are wearing. Is Mrs Palm at home?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's always at home to <em class="calibre8">important </em>visitors,' said Colette. 'Do come in, everyone will be so pleased to see you again!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were cries of welcome as Granny stepped into the scarlet gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? You've been here before?' said Nanny, eyeing the pink flesh and white late that made up much of the scenery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Mrs Palm is an old friend. Practic'ly a witch.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You... you do <em class="calibre8">know </em>what <em class="calibre8">kind </em>of place this is, do you, Esme?' said Nanny Ogg. She felt curiously annoyed. She'd happily give way to Granny's expertise in the worlds of mind and magic, but she felt very strongly that there were some more specialized areas that were definitely Ogg territory, and Granny Weatherwax had no business even to know what they were.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Granny, calmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's patience gave out. 'It's a house of ill repute, is what it is!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On the contrary,' said Granny. 'I believe people speak very highly of it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You <em class="calibre8">knew? </em>And you never told <em class="calibre8">me?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny raised an ironic eyebrow. 'The lady who invented the Strawberry Wobbler?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes, but–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We all live life the best way we can, Gytha. And there's a lot of people who think <em class="calibre8">witches </em>are bad.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Before you criticize someone, Gytha, walk a mile in their shoes,' said Granny, with a faint smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In those shoes <em class="calibre8">she </em>was wearin', I'd twist my ankle,' said Nanny, gritting her teeth. 'I'd need a ladder just to get in 'em.' It was infuriating, the way Granny tricked you into reading her half of the dialogue. And opened your mind to yourself in unexpected ways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And it's a welcoming place and the beds are soft,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Warm too, I expect,' said Nanny Ogg, giving in. 'And there's always a friendly light in the window.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dear me, Gytha Ogg. I always thought you were unshockable.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shockable, no,' said Nanny. 'Easily surprised, yes.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft the chorus master peered at Agnes over the top of his half‑moon spectacles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The, um, "Departure" aria, as it is known,' he said, 'is quite a little masterpiece. Not one of the great operatic highlights, but very memorable nevertheless.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes misted over. ' "<em class="calibre8">Questa</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">maledetta" </em>sings Iodine, as she tells Peccadillo how hard it is for her to leave him... "<em class="calibre8">Questa</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">maledetta porta si blocccccca, Si blocca comunque diavolo to faccccc‑cio... !" '</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped and made great play of cleaning his glasses with his handkerchief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When Gigh sang it, there wasn't a dry eye in the house,' he mumbled. 'I was there. It was then that I decided that I would... oh, great days, indeed.' He put his glasses on and blew his nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll run through it once,' he said, 'just so that you can understand how it is supposed to go. Very well, André.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The young man who had been drafted in to play the piano in the rehearsal room nodded, and winked surreptitiously at Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pretended not to have seen him, and listened with an expression of acute studiousness as the old man worked his way through the score.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now,' he said, 'let us see how you manage.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He handed her the score and nodded at the pianist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes sang the aria, or at least a few bars of it. André stopped playing and leaned his head against the piano, trying to stifle a laugh.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahem,' said Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was I doing something wrong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were singing tenor,' said Undershaft, looking sternly at André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She was singing in your <em class="calibre8">voice</em>, sir!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps you can sing it like, er, Christine would sing it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They started again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Kwesta!? Maledetta!!...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Undershaft held up both hands. André's shoulders were shaking with the effort of not laughing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, yes. Accurately observed. I daresay you're right. But could we start again and, er, perhaps you would sing it how you think it should be sung?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They started again...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...and finished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Undershaft had sat down, half‑turned away. He wouldn't look round to face her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stood watching him uncertainly. 'Er. Was that all right?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André the pianist got up slowly and took her hand. 'I think we'd better leave him,' he said softly, pulling her towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was it that bad?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not... exactly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Undershaft raised his head, but didn't turn it towards her. 'More practice on those Rs, madam, and strive for greater security above the stave,' he said hoarsely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Yes, I will.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André led her out into the corridor, shut the door, and then turned to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was <em class="calibre8">astounding,' </em>he said. 'Did you ever hear the great Gigh sing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't even know who Gigh is. What <em class="calibre8">was I </em>singing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You didn't know that either?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know what it <em class="calibre8">means, </em>no.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André looked down at the score in his hand. 'Well, I'm not much good at the language, but I suppose the opening could be sung something like this:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This damn' door sticks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This damn' door sticks</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It sticks no matter what the hell I do</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's marked "Pull" and indeed I am pulling</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perhaps it should be marked "Push"?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes blinked. 'That's <em class="calibre8">it?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I thought it was supposed to be very moving and romantic!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It <em class="calibre8">is</em>,' said André. 'It <em class="calibre8">was. </em>This isn't real life, this is <em class="calibre8">opera. </em>It doesn't <em class="calibre8">matter </em>what the words mean. It's the feeling that matters. Hasn't anyone told–? Look, I'm in rehearsals for the rest of the afternoon, but perhaps we could meet tomorrow? Perhaps after breakfast?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, no, thought Agnes. Here it comes. The blush was moving inexorably upwards. She wondered if one day it might reach her face and carry on going, so that it ended up as a big pink cloud over her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, yes,' she said. 'Yes. That would be... very helpful.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now I've got to go.' He gave her a weak little smile, and patted her hand. 'And... I'm really sorry it's happening this way. Because... that was astounding.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He went to walk away, and then stopped. 'Uh...sorry if I frightened you last night,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'On the stairs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, that. I wasn't frightened.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You... er... didn't mention it to anyone, did you? I'd hate people to think I was worrying over nothing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hadn't given it another thought, to tell you the truth. I know you can't be the Ghost, if that's what you're worried about. Eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me? The Ghost. Haha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haha,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So, er... see you tomorrow, then...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes headed back to her room, deep in thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine was there, looking critically at herself in the mirror. She spun around as Agnes entered; she even <em class="calibre8">moved </em>with exclamation marks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Perdita!! Have you heard?! I'm to sing the part of Iodine tonight!! Isn't that <em class="calibre8">wonderful?!' </em>She dashed across the room and endeavoured to pick Agnes up and hug her, settling eventually for just hugging her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I heard they're already letting you in the chorus!?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't that nice?! I've been practising all morning with Mr Salzella. Kesta!? Mallydetta!! Porter see bloker!!' She twirled happily. Invisible sequins filled the air with their shine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When I am very famous,' she said, 'you won't regret having a friend in me!! I shall do my very best to help you!! I am sure you bring me luck!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Agnes, hopelessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because my dear father told me that one day a dear little pixie would arrive to help me achieve my great ambition, and, do you know, I think that little pixie is <em class="calibre8">you</em>!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes smiled unhappily. After you'd known Christine for any length of time, you found yourself fighting a desire to look into her ear to see if you could spot daylight coming the other way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. I thought we had swapped rooms?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">that!!' </em>said Christine, smiling. 'Wasn't I <em class="calibre8">silly</em>?! Anyway, I shall <em class="calibre8">need </em>the big mirror now that I am to be a prima donna! You don't mind, do you!?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh. No. No, of course not. Er. If you're sure...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked at the mirror, and then at the bed. And then at Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' she said, shocked at the enormity of the idea that had just presented itself, delivered from the Perdita of her soul. 'I'm sure that will be fine.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft blew his nose and tried to tidy himself up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, he didn't have to stand for it. Perhaps the child <em class="calibre8">was </em>somewhat on the heavy side, but Gigli, for example, had once crushed a tenor to death and no one had thought any worse of her for it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd protest to Mr Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft was a single‑minded man. He believed in voices. It didn't <em class="calibre8">matter </em>what anyone looked like. He never watched opera with his eyes open. It was the music that mattered, not the acting and certainly not the shape of the singers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What did it matter what shape she was? Dame Tessitura had a beard you could strike a match on and a nose flattened half across her face, but she was still one of the best basses who ever opened beer bottles with her thumb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, Salzella said that, while everyone accepted that large women of fifty could play thin girls of seventeen, people wouldn't accept that a fat girl of seventeen could do it. He said they'd cheer­fully swallow a big lie and choke on a little fib. Salzella said that sort of thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something was going wrong these days. The whole place seemed... sick, if a building could be sick. The crowds were still coming, but the money just didn't seem to be there any more; everything seemed to be so expensive... And now they were owned by a <em class="calibre8">cheesemonger, </em>for heaven's sake, some grubby counter jumper who'd probably want to bring in fancy ideas. What they needed was a businessman, some clerk who could add up columns of figures properly and not interfere. That was the trouble with all the owners he had experienced‑they started off thinking of themselves as businessmen, and then suddenly began to think they could make an artistic contribution.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Still, possibly cheesemongers had to add up cheeses. just so long as this one stayed in his office with the books, and didn't go around acting as though he owned the place just because he happened to own the place...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Undershaft blinked. He'd gone the wrong way again. No matter how long you'd been here, this place was a maze. He was behind the stage, in the orchestra's room. Instruments and folding chairs had been stacked everywhere. His foot toppled a beer bottle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The twang of a string made him look around. Broken instruments littered the floor. There were half a dozen smashed violins. Several oboes had been broken. The from had been pulled right out of a trombone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked up into someone's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... why are you–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The half‑moon spectacles tumbled over and over, and smashed on the boards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the attacker lowered his mask, as smooth and white as the skull of an angel, and stepped forward purposefully...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was darkness. A cloaked figure raised its head and looked at him through bony white sockets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft's recent memories were a little confused, but one fact stood out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aha,' he said. 'Got you! You're the Ghost!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YOU KNOW, YOU'RE RATHER AMUSINGLY WRONG.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dr Undershaft watched another masked figure pick up the body of... Dr Undershaft, and drag it into the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I <em class="calibre8">see. </em>I'm dead.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SUCH WOULD APPEAR TO BE THE CASE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was murder! Does anyone know?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THE MURDERER. AND YOU, OF COURSE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But <em class="calibre8">him</em>? How can‑?' Undershaft began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WE MUST GO, 
    said Death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But he just killed me! Strangled me with his bare hands!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">YES. CHALK IT UP TO EXPERIENCE.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean I can't do anything about it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">LEAVE IT TO THE LIVING. GENERALLY SPEAKING, THEY GET UNEASY WHEN THE DECEASED TAKES A CONSTRUCTIVE ROLE IN A MURDER INVESTIGATION. THEY TEND TO LOSE CONCENTRATION.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know, you do have a very good bass voice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THANK YOU.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are there going to be... choirs and things?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">WOULD YOU LIKE SOME?</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes slipped out through the stage‑door and into the streets of Ankh‑Morpork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blinked in the light. The air felt slightly prickly, and sharp, and too cold.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">What she was about to do was wrong. Very wrong. And all her life she'd done things that were right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Go on, said Perdita.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact, she probably wouldn't even do it. But there was no harm in just <em class="calibre8">asking </em>where there was a herbal shop, so she asked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was no harm in going in, so she went in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it certainly wasn't against any kind of law to buy the ingredients she bought. After all, she might get a headache later on, or be unable to sleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it would mean nothing at all to take them back to her room and tuck them under the mattress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That's right, said Perdita.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In fact, if you averaged out the moral difficulty of what she was proposing over all the little activities she had to undergo in order to do it, it probably wasn't that bad at all, really–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">These comforting thoughts were arranging themselves in her mind as she headed back. She turned a corner and nearly walked into Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She flung herself against the wall and stopped breathing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They hadn't seen her, although Nanny's foul cat leered at her over its owner's shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They'd take her back! She just knew they would!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fact that she was a free agent and her own mistress and quite at liberty to go off to Ankh‑Morpork had nothing to do with it. They'd <em class="calibre8">interfere. </em>They always did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scurried back along the alley and ran as fast as she could to the rear of the Opera House.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stage‑doorkeeper took no notice of her.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny and Nanny strolled through the city towards the area known as the Isle of Gods. It wasn't exactly Ankh and it wasn't exactly Morpork, being situated where the river bent so much it almost formed an island. It was where the city kept all those things it occasionally needed but was uneasy about, like the Watch‑house, the theatres, the prison and the publishers. It was the place for all those things which might go off bang in unexpected ways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo ambled along behind them. The air was full of new smells, and he was looking forward to seeing if any of them belonged to anything he could eat, fight or ravish.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg found herself getting increasingly worried. 'This isn't really <em class="calibre8">us</em>, Esme,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who is it, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean the book was just a bit of fun. No sense in making ourselves unpopular, is there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't have witches being done down, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't <em class="calibre8">feel </em>done down. I felt fine until you<em class="calibre8"> told </em>me I was done down,' said Nanny, putting her finger on a major sociological point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've been exploited,' said Granny firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No I ain't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes you have. You're a downtrodden mass.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No I ain't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've been swindled out of your life savings,' said Granny. ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two dollars?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, it's all you'd actually <em class="calibre8">saved,' </em>said Granny, accurately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only 'cos I spent everything else,' said Nanny. Other people salted away money for their old age, but Nanny preferred to accumulate memories.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there you are, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was putting that by for some new piping for my still up at Copperhead,' said Nanny. 'You know how that scumble eats away at the metal–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were putting a little something by for some security and peace of mind in your old age,' Granny translated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't get peace of mind with my scumble,' said Nanny happily. 'Pieces, yes; but not peace. It's made from the finest apples, you know,' she added. 'Well, mainly apples.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stopped outside an ornate doorway, and peered at the brass plate affixed thereon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is the place,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've never been one for front doors,' said Nanny, shifting from one foot to the other.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded. Witches had a thing about front doors. A brief search located an alleyway which led around the back of the building. Here was a pair of much larger doors, wide open. Several dwarfs were loading bundles of books on to a cart. A rhythmic thumping came from somewhere beyond the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one took any notice of the witches as they wandered inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Movable type was known in Ankh‑Morpork, but if wizards heard about it they moved it where no one could find it. They generally didn't interfere with the running of the city, but when it came to movable type the pointy foot was put down hard. They had never explained why, ' and people didn't press the issue because you didn't press the issue with wizards, not if you liked yourself the shape you were. They simply worked around the problem, and engraved everything. This took a long time and meant that Ankh‑Morpork was, for example, denied the benefit of newspapers, leaving the population to fool themselves as best they could.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A press was thumping gently at one end of the warehouse. Beside it, at long tables, a number of dwarfs and humans were stitching pages together and gluing on the covers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny took a book off a pile. It was <em class="calibre8">The Joye of Snacks</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can I help you, ladies?' said a voice. Its tone suggested very clearly that it wasn't anticipating offering any kind of help whatsoever, except out into the street at speed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've come about this book,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm Mrs Ogg,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man looked her up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh yes? Can you identify yourself?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly. I'd know me anywhere.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! Well, I happen to know what Gytha Ogg looks like, madam, and she does not look like <em class="calibre8">you</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg opened her mouth to reply, and then said, in the voice of one who has stepped happily into the road and only now remembers about the onrushing coach:'... Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And how do you know what Mrs Ogg looks like?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, is that the time? We'd better be going–'said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because, as a matter of fact, she sent me a picture,' said Goatberger, taking out his wallet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure we're not at <em class="calibre8">all</em> interested,' said Nanny hurriedly, pulling on Granny's arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm <em class="calibre8">extremely </em>interested,' said Granny. She snatched a folded piece of paper out of Goatberger's hands, and peered at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! Yes... that's Gytha Ogg all right,' she said. 'Yes, indeed. I remember when that young artist came to Lancre for the summer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wore my hair longer in those days,' muttered Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just as well, considering,' said Granny. 'I didn't know you had <em class="calibre8">copies, </em>though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know how it is when you're young,' said Nanny dreamily. 'It was doodle, doodle, doodle all summer long.' She awoke from her reverie. 'And I still weigh the same now as I did then,' she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Except that it's shifted,' said Granny, nastily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She handed the sketch back to Goatberger. 'That's her all right,' she said. 'But it's out by about sixty years and several layers of clothing. This is Gytha Ogg, right here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're telling me <em class="calibre8">this</em> came up with Bananana Soup Surprise?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you try it?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Cropper the head printer did, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was he surprised?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not half as surprised as Mrs Cropper.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It can take people like that,' said Nanny. 'I think perhaps I overdo the nutmeg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goatberger stared at her. Doubt was beginning to assail him. You only had to look at Nanny Ogg grinning back at you to believe she <em class="calibre8">could</em> write something like <em class="calibre8">The Joye of Snacks.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you really write this?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'From memory,' said Nanny, proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now she'd like some money,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Goatberger's face twisted up as though he'd just eaten a lemon and washed it down with vinegar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But we gave her the money <em class="calibre8">back,' </em>he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See?' said Nanny, her face falling. 'I told you, Esme–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She wants some more,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I don't–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, she doesn't!' Goatberger agreed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She does,' said Granny. 'She wants a little bit of money for every book you've sold.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't expect to be treated like royalty,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You shut up,' said Granny. 'I know what you want. We want some money, Mr Goatberger.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what if I won't give it to you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glared at him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then we shall go away and think about what to do next,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's no idle threat,' said Nanny. 'There's a lot of people've regretted Esme thinking about what to do next.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come back when you've thought, then!' snapped Goatberger. He stormed off: 'I don't know, authors wanting to be paid, good grief–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He disappeared among the stacks of books.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... do you think that could have gone better?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glanced at the table beside them. It was stacked with long sheets of paper. She nudged a dwarf, who had been watching the argument with some amusement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're these?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're proofs for the Almanack.' He saw her blank expression. 'They're sort of a trial run for the book so's we can check that all the spelling mistakes have been left in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked it up. 'Come, Gytha,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't want trouble, Esme,' said Nanny Ogg as she hurried after her. 'It's only money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It ain't money any more,' said Granny. 'It's a way of keepin' score.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket picked up a violin. It was in two pieces, held together by the strings. One of them broke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who'd do something like this?' he said. 'Honestly, Salzella... what <em class="calibre8">is</em> the difference between opera and madness?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is this a trick question?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then I'd say: better scenery. Ah... I thought so...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella rooted among the destruction, and stood up with a letter in his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would you like me to open it?' he said. 'It's addressed to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket shut his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Go on,' he said. 'Don't bother about the details. Just tell me, how many exclamation marks?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella passed the paper over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket read:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Dear Bucket,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Whoops!
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Ahahahahahahahaha!!!!!
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             Yrs,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
             
                The Opera Ghost
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'What can we do?' he said. 'One moment he writes polite little notes, the next he goes mad on paper!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Herr Trubelmacher has got everyone out hunting for new instruments,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are violins more expensive than ballet shoes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There are few things in the world more expensive than ballet shoes. Violins happen to be among them,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Further expense!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It seems so, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I thought the Ghost <em class="calibre8">liked </em>music! Herr Trubelmacher tells me the organ is beyond repair!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stopped. He was aware that he had exclaimed a little less rationally than a sane man should.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, well,' Bucket continued wearily. 'The show must go on, I suppose.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket shook his head. 'How's it all going for tonight?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think it will work, if that's what you mean. Perdita seems to have a very good grasp of the part.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And Christine?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She has an astonishingly good grasp of wearing a dress. Between them, they make one prima donna.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The proud owner of the Opera House got slowly to his feet. 'It all seemed so simple,' he moaned. 'I thought: opera, how hard can it be? Songs. Pretty girls dancing. Nice scenery. Lots of people handing over cash. Got to be better than the cut‑throat world of yoghurt, I thought. Now everywhere I go there's–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something crunched under his shoe. He picked up the remains of a pair of half‑moon spectacles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'These are Dr Undershaft's, aren't they?' he said. 'What're they doing here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His eyes met Salzella's steady gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">no</em>,' he groaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella turned slightly, and stared hard at a big double­bass case leaning against the wall. He raised his eyebrows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">no</em>,' said Bucket, again. 'Go on. Open it. My hands have gone all sweaty...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella padded across to the case and grasped the lid. 'Ready?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket nodded, wearily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The case was flung open.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella craned round to see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, yes,' he said. 'A broken neck, and the body has been kicked in considerably. That'll cost a dollar or two to repair, and no mistake.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And all the strings are busted! Are double basses more expensive to rebuild than violins?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am afraid that all musical instruments are incredibly expensive to repair, with the possible exception of the triangle,' said Salzella. 'However, it could have been worse, hmm?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, it <em class="calibre8">could</em> have been Dr Undershaft in there, yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket gaped at him, and then shut his mouth. 'Oh. Yes. Of course. Oh, yes. That would have been worse. Yes. Bit of luck there, I suppose. Yes. Um.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'So that's an opera house, is it?' said Granny. 'Looks like someone built a great big box and glued the architecture on afterwards.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She coughed, and appeared to be waiting for something.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can we have a look around?' said Nanny dutifully, aware that Granny's curiosity was equalled only by her desire not to show it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It can't do any harm, I suppose,' said Granny, as if granting a big favour. 'Seein' as we've nothing else to do right this minute.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Opera House was, indeed, that most efficiently multifunctional of building designs. It was a cube. But, as Granny had pointed out, the architect had suddenly realized late in the day that there ought to be <em class="calibre8">some</em> sort of decoration, and had shoved it on hurriedly, in a riot of friezes, pillars, corybants and curly bits. Gargoyles had colonized the higher reaches. The effect, seen from the front, was of a huge wall of tortured stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Round the back, of course, there was the usual drab mess of windows, pipes and damp stone walls. One of the rules of a certain type of public architecture is that it only happens at the front.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny paused under a window. 'Someone's singing,' she said. 'Listen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'La‑la‑la‑la‑la‑LAH,' trilled someone. 'Do‑Re‑Mi‑Fah‑So­La‑Ti‑Do...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's opera, right enough,' said Granny. 'Sounds foreign to me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny had an unexpected gift for languages; she could be comprehensibly incompetent in a new one within an hour or two. What she spoke was one step away from gibberish but it was authentically <em class="calibre8">foreign </em>gibberish. And she knew that Granny Weatherwax, whatever her other qualities, had an even bigger tin ear for languages than she did for music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Could be,' she said. 'There's always a lot going on, I know that. Our Nev said they sometimes do different operations every night.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did he find that out?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there was a lot of lead. That takes some shifting. He said he liked the noisy ones. He could hum along and also no one heard the hammering.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches strolled onwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you notice young Agnes nearly bump into us back there?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. It was all I could do not to turn around,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She wasn't very pleased to see us, was she? I practically heard her gasp.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's very suspicious, if you ask me,' said Nanny. 'I mean, she sees two friendly faces from back home, you'd expect her . to come runnin' up...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're old friends, after all. Old friends of her grandma and her mum, anyway, and that's practic'ly the same.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Remember those eyes in the teacup?' said Nanny. 'She could be under the gaze of some strange occult force! We got to be careful. People can be very tricky when they're in the grip of a strange occult force. Remember Mr Scruple over in Slice?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That wasn't a strange occult force. That was acid stomach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, it certainly seemed strangely occult for a while. Especially if the windows were shut.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Their perambulation had taken them to the Opera House's stage‑door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked up at a line of posters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'La Triviata,' 
    </em>
    she read aloud. <em class="calibre8">'The Ring of the Nibelungingung... ?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, basically there are two sorts of opera,' said Nanny, who also had the true witch's ability to be confidently expert on the basis of no experience whatsoever. 'There's your heavy opera, where basically people sing foreign and it goes like "Oh oh oh, I am dyin', oh, I am dyin', oh, oh, oh, that's what I'm doin"', and there's your light opera, where they sing in foreign and it basically goes "Beer! Beer! Beer! Beer! I like to drink lots of beer!", although sometimes they drink champagne instead. That's basically all of opera, reely.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Either dyin' or drinkin' beer?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Basically, yes,' said Nanny, contriving to suggest that this was the whole gamut of human experience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that's opera?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We‑ll... there might be <em class="calibre8">some </em>other stuff. But mostly it's stout or stabbin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was aware of a presence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure had emerged from the stage‑door, carrying a poster, a bucket of glue and a brush.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a strange figure, a sort of neat scarecrow in clothes slightly too small for it, although, to be truthful, there were probably no clothes that would have fit that body. The ankles and wrists seemed infinitely extensible and independently guided.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It encountered the two witches standing at the poster board, and stopped politely. They could <em class="calibre8">see </em>the sentence marshalling itself behind the unfocused eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me ladies! The show must go on!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words were all there and they made sense, but each sentence was fired out into the world as a unit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny pulled Nanny to one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They watched in silence as the man, with great and meticulous care, applied paste to a neat rectangle and then affixed the poster, smoothing every crease methodically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's your name, young man?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a nice beret you have there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My mum bought it for me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter chased the last air bubble to the edge of the paper and stood back. Then, completely ignoring the witches in his preoccupation with his task, he picked up the paste‑pot and went back inside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches stared at the new poster in silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Y'know, I wouldn't mind seein' an operation,' said Nanny, after a while. 'Senior Basilica did give us the tickets.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know me,' said Granny. 'Can't be having with that sort of thing at all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked sideways at her, and grinned to herself. This was a familiar Weatherwax opening line. It meant: Of course I want to, but you've got to persuade me.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're right, o' course,' she said. 'It's for them folks in all their fine carriages. It's not for the likes of us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked hesitant for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect it's having ideas above our station,' Nanny went on. 'I expect if we went in they'd say: Be off, you nasty ole crones...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, they would, would they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't expect they want common folk like what we are comin' in with all those smart nobby people,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that a fact? Is that a fact, madam? You just come with me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stalked round to the front of the building, where people were already alighting from coaches. She pushed her way up the steps and shouldered through the crowd to the ticket office.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She leaned forward. The man behind the grille leaned back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nasty old crones, eh?' she snapped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I beg your pardon‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not before time! See here, we've got tickets for–' She looked down at the pieces of cardboard, and pulled Nanny Ogg over. 'It says here <em class="calibre8">Stalls. </em>The cheek of it! Stalls? Us?' She turned back to the ticket man. 'See here, Stalls aren't good enough, we want seats in'–she looked up at the board by the ticket window–'the Gods. Yes, that sounds about right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry? You've got tickets for Stalls seats and you want to exchange them for seats in the Gods?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, and don't you go expecting us to pay any more money!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wasn't going to ask you for–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just as well!' said Granny, smiling triumphantly. She looked approvingly at the new tickets. 'Come, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, excuse me,' said the man as Nanny Ogg turned away, 'but what is that on your shoulders?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's... a fur collar,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse <em class="calibre8">me, </em>but I just saw it flick its tail.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. I happen to believe in beauty without cruelty.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes was aware of something happening back­stage. Little groups of men were forming, and then breaking up as various individuals hurried away about their mysterious tasks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out in front the orchestra was already tuning up. The chorus was filing on to be A Busy Marketplace, in which various jugglers, gypsies, sword-swallowers and gaily dressed yokels would be entirely unsurprised at an apparently drunken baritone strolling on to sing an enormous amount of plot at a passing tenor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She saw Mr Bucket and Mr Salzella deep in argument with the stage manager.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can we search the entire building? This place is a maze!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He might have just wandered off some­where... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's as blind as a bat without those glasses.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But we can't be <em class="calibre8">certain </em>something's happened to him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Yes? You didn't say that when we opened the double‑bass case. You were certain' he was going to be inside. Admit it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... wasn't expecting just to find a smashed double bass, yes. But I was feeling a bit mithered at that point.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A sword‑swallower nudged Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Curtain up in one minute, dear,' he said, smearing mustard on his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Has something happened to Dr Undershaft?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Couldn't say, dear. You wouldn't have any salt, would you?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Scuse me. 'Scuse me. Sorry. 'Scuse me. Was that your foot? 'Scuse me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Leaving a trail of annoyed and pained patrons in their wake, the witches trod their way to their seats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny elbowed herself comfortable and then, having in some matters the boredom threshold of a four‑year‑old, said: 'What's happenin' now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's skimpy knowledge of opera didn't come to her aid. So she turned to the lady beside her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Scuse me, could I borrow your programme? Thank you. 'Scuse me, could I borrow your spectacles? So kind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She spent a few moments in careful study.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is the overture,' she said. 'It's kind of a free sample of what's going to happen. 'S got a summary of the story, too. <em class="calibre8">La Triviata.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her lips moved as she read. Occasionally her brow wrinkled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, it's quite simple reely,' she said, at last. 'A lot of people are in love with one another, there's considerable dressing up as other people and general confusion, there's a cheeky servant, no one really knows who anyone is, a couple of ole dukes go mad, chorus of gypsies, etc. Your basic opera. Someone's prob'ly going to turn out to be someone else's longlost son or daughter or wife or something.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shh!' said a voice behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wish we'd brought something to eat,' muttered Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think I've got some peppermints in my knicker leg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I would like my spectacles back, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here you are, ma'am. They're not very good, are they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone tapped Nanny Ogg on the shoulder. 'Madam, your fur stole is eating my chocolates!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And someone tapped Granny Weatherwax on <em class="calibre8">her </em>shoulder. 'Madam, kindly remove your hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg choked on her peppermint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax turned to the red‑faced gentleman behind her. 'You do know what a woman in a pointy hat is, don't you?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Yes, 
    </em>
    madam. A woman in a pointy hat is sitting in front of me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny gave him a stare. And then, to Nanny's surprise, she removed her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I do beg your pardon,' she said. 'I can see I was inadvertently bad‑mannered. Pray excuse me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned back to the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg started breathing again. 'You feeling all right, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never better.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax surveyed the auditorium, oblivious to the sounds around her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     
      
      'I assure you, madam, your fur is eating my chocolates. It's started on the second layer!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Oh, dear. Show him the little map inside the lid, will you? He's only after the truffles, and you can soon rub the dribble off the others.'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Do you mind being quiet?'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'I don't mind, it's this man and his chocolates that's making the noise–'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">A big room, Granny thought. A great big room without windows...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a tingling in her thumbs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at the chandelier. The rope disappeared into an alcove in the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her gaze passed along the rows of Boxes. They were all quite crowded. On one, though, the curtains were almost closed, as if someone inside wanted to see out without being seen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Granny looked among the Stalls. The audience was mainly human. Here and there was the hulking shape of a troll, although the troll equivalent of operas usually went on for a couple of years. A few dwarf helmets gleamed, although dwarfs normally weren't interested in anything without dwarfs in. There seemed to be a lot of feathers down there, and here and there the glint of jewellery. Shoulders were being worn bare this season. A lot of attention had been paid to appearances. The people were here to look, not to see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She closed her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was when you started being a witch. It wasn't when you did headology on daft old men, or mixed up medicines, or stuck up for yourself, or knew one herb from another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was when you opened your mind to the world and carefully examined everything it picked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ignored her ears until the sounds of the audience became just a distant buzz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Or, at least, a distant buzz broken by the voice of Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Says here that Dame Timpani, who sings the part of Quizella, is a diva,' said Nanny. 'So I reckon this is like a part‑time job, then. Prob'ly quite a good idea, on account of you have to be able to hold your breath. Good trainin' for the singin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded without opening her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She kept them closed as the opera started. Nanny, who knew when to leave her friend to her own devices, tried to keep quiet but felt impelled to give out a running commentary.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she said, 'There's Agnes! Hey, that's Agnes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stop wavin' and sit down,' murmured Granny, trying to hold on to her waking dream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑ Nanny leaned over the balcony.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's .dressed up as a gypsy,' she said. 'And now there's a girl come forward to sing'‑ she peered at the stolen programme–'the famous "Departure" aria, it says here. Now that's what I call a good voice–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's Agnes singin',' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, it's this girl Christine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut your eyes, you daft old woman, and tell me if that isn't Agnes singin',' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg obediently shut her eyes for a moment, and then opened them again. 'It's Agnes singing!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But there's that girl with the big smile right out there in front moving her lips and everything!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny scratched her head. 'Something a bit wrong here, Esme. Can't have people stealing our Agnes's voice.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's eyes were still shut. 'Tell me if the curtains on that Box down there on the right have moved,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just saw them twitch, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny let herself relax again. She sank into the seat as the aria washed over her, and opened her mind once more...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Edges, walls, doors...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Once a space was enclosed it became a universe of its own. Some things remained trapped in it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The music passed through one side of her head and out the other, but with it. came other things, strands of things, echoes of old screams...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She drifted down further, down below the conscious, into the darkness beyond the circle of firelight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was fear here. It stalked the place like a great dark animal. It lurked in every corner. It was in the stones. Old terror crouched in the shadows. It was one of the most ancient terrors, the one that meant that no sooner had mankind learned to walk on two legs than it dropped to its knees. It was the terror of impermanence, the knowledge that all this would pass away, that a beautiful voice or a wonderful figure was something whose arrival you couldn't control and whose departure you couldn't delay. It wasn't what she had been looking for, but it was perhaps the sea in which it swam.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went deeper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there it was, roaring through the night‑time of the soul of the place like a deep cold current.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she drew closer she saw that it was not one thing but two, twisted around one another. She reached out...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Trickery. Lies. Deceit. Murder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone had turned to look at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tugged at her dress. 'Sit down, Esme!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stared. The chandelier hung peacefully over the crowded seats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They beat him to death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's that, Esme??</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And they throw him into the river!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Esme!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Sh!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Madam, will you sit down at once!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     '...and now it's started on the Nougat Whirls!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny snatched at her hat and did a crabwise run along the row, crushing some of the finest footwear in Ankh­-Morpork under her thick Lancre soles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny hung back reluctantly. She'd quite enjoyed the song, and she wanted to applaud. But her pair of hands wasn't necessary. The audience had exploded as soon as the last note had died away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked at the stage, and took note of something, and smiled. 'Like that, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sighed. 'Coming, Esme. 'Scuse me. 'Scuse me. Sorry. 'Scuse me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was out in the red plush corridor, leaning with her forehead against the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is a bad one, Gytha,' she muttered. 'It's all twisted up. I ain't at all sure I can make it happen right. The poor soul...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She straightened up. 'Look at me, Gytha, will you?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gytha obediently opened her eyes wide. She winced a little as a fragment of Granny Weatherwax's consciousness crept behind her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny put her hat on, tucking in the occasional errant wisp of grey hair and then taking, one by one, the eight hatpins and ramming them home with the same frowning deliberation with which a mercenary might check his weapons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right,' she said at last.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg relaxed. 'It's not that I mind, Esme,' she said, 'but I wish you'd use a mirror.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Waste of money,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now fully armoured, she strode off along the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Glad to see you didn't lose your temper with the man who went on about your hat,' said Nanny, running along behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No point. He's going to be dead tomorrow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear. What of?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Run over by a cart, I think.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why didn't you tell him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could be wrong.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny reached the stairs and thundered down them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where're we going?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I want to see who's behind those curtains.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The applause, distant but still thunderous, filled the stairwell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They certainly like Agnes's voice,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. I hopes we're in time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, bugger!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I left Greebo up there!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, he likes meeting new people. Good grief, this place is a <em class="calibre8">maze</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stepped out into a curved corridor, rather plusher than the one they had left. There was a series of doors along it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Now, then...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked along the row, counting, and then tried a handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can I help you, ladies?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned. A little old woman had come up softly behind them, carrying a tray of drinks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny smiled at her. Nanny Ogg smiled at the tray.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We were just wondering,' said Granny, 'which person in these Boxes likes to sit with the curtains nearly shut?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tray began to shake.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here, shall I hold that for you?' .said Nanny. 'You'll spill something if you're not careful.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you know about Box Eight?'said the old lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Box Eight,' said Granny. 'That'd be the one, yes. That's this one over here, isn't it... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, please...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny strode forward and grasped the handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door was locked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tray was thrust into Nanny's welcoming hands. 'Well, thank you, I don't mind if I do...' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The woman pulled at Granny's arm. 'Don't! It'll bring terrible bad luck!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny thrust out her hand. 'The key, madam!' Behind her, Nanny inspected a glass of champagne.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't make him angry! It's bad enough as it is!' The woman was clearly terrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Iron,' said Granny, rattling the handle. 'Can't magic iron...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here,' said Nanny, stepping forward a little unsteadily. 'Give me one of your hatpins. Our Nev's taught me all kindsa tricks...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's hand rose to her hat, and then she looked at Mrs Plinge's lined face. She lowered her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' she said. 'No, I reckon we'll leave it for now...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know what's happening...' sobbed Mrs Plinge. 'It never used to be like this...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have a good blow,' said Nanny, handing her a grubby handkerchief and patting her kindly on the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...there was none of this killing people... he just wanted somewhere to watch the opera... it made him feel better...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's this we're talking about?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg gave her a warning look over the top of the old woman's head. There were some things best left to Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... he'd unlock it for an hour every Friday for me to tidy up and there was always his little note saying thank you or apologizing for the chocolates down the seat... and where was the harm in it, that's what I'd like to know...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have another good blow,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...and now there's people dropping like flies out of the flies... they say it's him, but I know he never meant any harm...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Course not,' said Nanny, soothingly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...many's the time I've seen 'em look up at the Box. They always felt the better for it if they saw him... and then poor Mr Pounder was strangulated. I looked around and there was his hat, just like that...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's terrible when that happens,' said Nanny Ogg. 'What's your name, dear?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Plinge,' sniffed Mrs Plinge. 'It came right down in front of me. I'd have recognized it anywhere...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think it would be a good idea if we took you home, Mrs Plinge,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear! I've got all these ladies and gentlemen to see to! And anyway it's dangerous going home this time of night... Walter walks me home but he's got to stay late tonight... oh dear...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have another good blow,' said Nanny. 'Find a bit that isn't too soggy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a series of sharp pops. Granny Weatherwax had interlocked her fingers and extended her hands at arm's length, so that her knuckles cracked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dangerous, eh?' she said. 'Well, we can't see you all upset like this. I'll walk you home and Mrs Ogg will see to things here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...only I've got to attend to the Boxes... I've got all these drinks to serve... could've sworn I had them a moment ago...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Ogg knows all about drinks,' said Granny, glaring at her friend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's nothing I don't know about drinks,' agreed Nanny, shamelessly emptying the last glass. 'Especially these.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...and what about our Walter? He'll worry himself silly...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter's your son?' said Granny. 'Wears a beret?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only I always comes back for him if he's working late...' she began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You come back for him... but <em class="calibre8">he </em>sees you home?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's... he's... he's...' Mrs Plinge rallied. 'He's a good boy,' she said defiantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure he is, Mrs Plinge,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She carefully lifted the little white bonnet off Mrs Plinge's head and handed it to Nanny, who put it on, and also took the little white apron. That was the good thing about black. You could be nearly anything, wearing black. Mother Superior or Madam, it was really just a matter of the style. It just depended on the details.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a click. Box Eight had bolted itself. And then there was the very faint scrape of a chair being wedged under the doorhandle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny smiled, and took Mrs Plinge's arm. 'I'll be back as soon as I can,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded, and watched them go.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a little cupboard at the end of the corridor. It contained a stool, Mrs Plinge's knitting, and a small but very well stocked bar. There were also, on a polished mahogany plank, a number of bells on big coiled springs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several of them were bouncing up and down angrily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny poured herself a gin and gin with a dash of gin and inspected the rows of bottles with considerable interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another bell started to ring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a huge jar of stuffed olives. Nanny helped herself to a handful and blew the dust off a bottle of port.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A bell fell off its spring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere out in the corridor a door opened and a young man's voice bellowed, 'Where are those drinks, woman!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny tried the port.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was used to the idea of domestic service. As a girl, she'd been a maid at Lancre Castle, where the king was inclined to press his intentions and anything else he could get hold of. Young Gytha Ogg had already lost her innocence but she had some clear ideas about unwelcome intentions, and when he jumped out at her in the scullery she had technically committed treason with a large leg of lamb swung in both hands. That had ended her life below stairs and put a lengthy crimp in the king's activities above them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The brief experience had given her certain views which weren't anything so definite as political but were very firmly Oggish. And Mrs Plinge had looked as if she didn't get very much to eat and not a lot of time to sleep, either. Her hands had been thin and red. Nanny had a lot of time for the Plinges of the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Did port go with sherry? Oh, well, no harm in trying...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All the bells were ringing now. It must be coming up to the interval.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She methodically unscrewed the top off ajar of cocktail onions, and thoughtfully crunched a couple.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then, as other people started to poke their heads around the doors and make angry demands, she went to the champagne shelf and took down a couple of magnums. She gave them a damn good shake, tucked one under each arm with a thumb on the corks, and stepped out into the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's philosophy of life was to do what seemed like a good idea at the time, and do it as hard as possible. It had never let her down.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtains closed. The audience was still on its feet, applauding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What happens now?' whispered Agnes to the next gypsy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled off his bandanna. 'Well, dear, we generally nip out to– Oh, no, they're going for a curtain call!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtains opened again. The light caught Christine, who curtsied and waved and sparkled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her fellow‑gypsy nudged Agnes. 'Look at Dame Timpani,' he said. 'There's a nose in a sling if ever I saw one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stared at the prima donna.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's smiling,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So does a tiger, dear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtains shut once more, with a finality that said the stage manager was going to strike the set and would scream at someone if they dared to touch those ropes again . .. .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes ran off with the others. There wasn't too much to do in the next act. She'd tried to memorize the plot earlier–although other members of the chorus had done their best to dissuade her, on the basis that you could either sing them or understand them, but not both.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nevertheless, Agnes was conscientious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...
    so Peccadillo (ten.), the son of Duke Tagliatella (bass), has secretly disguised himself as a swineherd to woo Quizella, not knowing that Doctor Bufola (bar.) has sold the elixir to Ludi the servant, without realizing he is really the maid Iodine (sop.) dressed up as a boy because Count Artaud (bar.) claims that...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A deputy stage manager pulled her out of the way and waved at someone in the wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lose the countryside, Ron.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a series of whistles from offstage, answered by another from above.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The backcloth rose. From the gloom above, the sandbag counterweights began to descend.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'... then Artaud reveals, er, that Zibeline must marry Fideli, I mean Fiabe, not knowing, er, that the family fortunes...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sandbags came down. On one side of the stage, at least. On the other side, Agnes was inter­rupted in her impossible task by the screaming, and looked around into the upside‑down and not at all well features of the late Dr Undershaft.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny skipped through a handy door, shut it behind her, and leaned on it. After a few moments the sound of running feet clattered past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Well, that had been fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She removed the lace bonnet and apron and, because there was a basic honesty in Nanny, she tucked them in a pocket to give back to Mrs Plinge later. Then she pulled out a flat, round black shape and banged it against her arm. The point shot out. After a few adjustments her official hat was almost as good as new.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around. A certain absence of light and carpeting, together with a very presence of dust, suggested that this was a part of the place the public weren't supposed to see.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, damn. She supposed she had better find another door. Of course, that'd mean she'd have to leave Greebo, wherever he was, but he'd turn up. He always did when he wanted feeding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a flight of steps leading down. She followed them to a corridor which was slightly better lit and ambled along it for quite a way. And then all she had to do was follow the screams.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She emerged among the flats and jumbled props backstage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one bothered about her. The appearance of a small, amiable old lady was not about to cause comment at this point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were running backwards and forwards, shouting. More impressionable people were just standing in one place and screaming. A large lady was sprawled over two chairs having hysterics, while some distracted stage‑hands tried to fan her with a script.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg was not certain whether something important had happened or whether this was just a continuation of opera by other means.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should loosen her corsets, if I was you,' she said as she ambled past.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good heavens, madam, there's enough panic in here as it is!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny moved on to an interesting crowd of gypsies, noblemen and stage‑hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Witches are curious by definition and inquisitive by nature. She moved in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let me through. I'm a nosy person,' she said, employing both elbows. It worked, as this sort of approach generally does.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a dead person lying on the floor. Nanny had seen death in a wide variety of guises, and certainly knew strangulation when it presented itself. It wasn't the nicest end, although it could be quite colourful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh dear,' she said. 'Poor man. What happened to him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Bucket says he must have got caught up in the–' someone began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He didn't get caught in anything! This is the Ghost's work!' said someone else. 'He could still be up there!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All eyes turned upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella's sent some stage‑hands to flush him out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have they got flaming torches?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Several of them looked at her as if wondering, for the first time, who she was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got to have flaming torches when you're tracking down evil monsters,' said Nanny. 'Well‑known fact.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a moment while this sunk in, and then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's true.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's right, you know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well‑known fact, dear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did they have flaming torches?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't think so. Just ordinary lanterns.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, they're no good,' said Nanny. 'That's for smugglers, lanterns. For evil monsters you need flaming–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, boys and girls!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stage manager had stood on a box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now,' he said, a little pale around the face, 'I know you're all familiar with the phrase "the show must go on"...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a chorus of groans from the chorus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's very hard to sing a jolly song about eating hedgehogs when you're waiting for an <em class="calibre8">accident </em>to happen to you,' shouted a gypsy king.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Funny thing, if we're talking about songs about hedgehogs, I myself–' Nanny began, but no one was paying her any attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, we don't actually know what happened–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Shall we guess?' said a gypsy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑but we have men up in the fly loft now–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? In case of more <em class="calibre8">accidents?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑and Mr Bucket has authorized me to say that there will be an additional two dollars' bonus tonight in recognition of your bravely agreeing <em class="calibre8">to continue with the show–'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Money? After a shock like this? Money? He thinks he can offer us a couple of dollars and we'll agree to stay on this cursed stage?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shame!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Heartless!,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Unthinkable!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Should be at least four!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right! Right!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'For shame, my friends! To talk about a few dollars when there is a dead man lying there... Have you no respect for his memory?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Exactly! A few dollars is disrespectful. Five dollars or nothing!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg nodded to herself, and wandered off and found a sufficiently big piece of cloth to cover the late Dr Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny rather liked the theatrical world. It was its own kind of magic. That was why Esme disliked it, she reckoned. It was the magic of illusions and misdirection and foolery, and that was fine by Nanny Ogg, because you couldn't be married three times without a little fooling. But it was just close enough to Granny's own kind of magic to make Granny uneasy. Which meant she couldn't leave it alone. It was like scratching an itch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People didn't take any notice of little old ladies who looked as though they fitted in, and Nanny Ogg could fit in faster than a dead chicken in a maggot factory.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, Nanny had one additional little talent, which was a mind like a buzzsaw behind a face like an elderly apple.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone was crying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A strange figure was kneeling beside the late chorus master. It looked like a puppet with the strings cut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can you give me a hand with this sheet, mister?' said Nanny quietly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The face looked up. Two watery eyes, running with tears, blinked at Nanny. 'He won't wake up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny mentally changed gear. 'That's right, luv,' she said. 'You're Walter, ain't you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He was always very good to me and our mum! He never gave me a kick!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was obvious to Nanny that there was no help here. She knelt down and began to do her best with the departed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Miss they say it were the Ghost miss! It weren't the Ghost miss! He'd never do a thing like that! He was always good to me and our mum!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny changed gear again. You had to slow down a bit for Walter Plinge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My mum'd know what to do!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, well... she's gone home early, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter's waxy face started to contort into an expression of terminal horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She mustn't walk home without Walter to look after her!' he shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I bet she always says that,' said Nanny. 'I bet she always makes sure her Walter's with her when she goes home. But I expect that right now she'd want her Walter to just get on with things so's she can be proud of him. Show's not half over yet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S dangerous for our mum!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny patted his hand and absent‑mindedly wiped her own hand on her dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's a good boy,' she said. 'Now, I've got to go off–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost wouldn't harm no one!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Walter, only I've got to go but I'll find someone to help you and you must put poor Dr Undershaft somewhere safe until after the show. Understand? And I'm Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter gawped at her, and then nodded sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good boy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny left him still looking at the body and headed further backstage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A young man hurrying past found that he'd suddenly acquired an Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Scuse me, young man,' said Nanny, still holding his arm, 'but d'you know anyone around here called Agnes? Agnes Nitt?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't say I do, ma'am. What does she do?' He made to hurry on as politely as possible, but Nanny's grip was steel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She sings a bit. Big girl. Voice with double joints in it. Wears black.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't mean Perdita?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita? Oh, yes. That'd be her all right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think she's seeing to Christine. They're in Mr Salzella's office.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Would Christine be the thin girl in white?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, ma'am.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I expect you're going to show me where this Mr Salzella's office is?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, am I‑ Er, yes. It's just along the stage there, first door on the right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What a good boy to help an old lady,' said Nanny. Her grip increased to a few ounces short of cutting off circulation. 'And wouldn't it be a good idea if you helped young Walter back there do something respectful for the poor dead man?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Back where?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny turned around. The late Dr Undershaft had gone nowhere, but Walter had vanished.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poor chap was a bit upset, I shouldn't wonder,' said Nanny. 'Only to be expected. So... how about if you got another strapping young lad to help you out instead?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What a good boy,' Nanny repeated.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was mid‑evening. Granny and Mrs Plinge pushed their way through the crowds towards the Shades, a part of the city that was as thronged as a rookery, fragrant as a cesspit, and vice versa.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So,' said Granny, as they entered the network of foetid alleys, 'your boy Walter usually sees you home, does he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's a good boy, Mistress Weatherwax,' said Mrs Plinge defensively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure you're grateful for a strong lad to lean on,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge looked up. Looking into Granny's eyes was like looking into a mirror. What you saw looking back at you was yourself, and there was no hiding‑place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They torment him so,' she mumbled. 'They poke at him and hide his broom. They're not bad boys round here, but they will torment him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He brings his broom home, does he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He looks after his things,' said Mrs Plinge. 'I've always brought him up to look after his things and not be a trouble. But they will poke the poor soul and call him such names...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The alleyway opened into a yard, like a well between the high buildings. Washing‑lines crisscrossed the rectangle of moonlit sky.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm just in here,' said Mrs Plinge. 'Much obliged to you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How does Walter get home without you?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, there's plenty of places to sleep in the Opera House. He knows that if I don't come for him he's to stop there for the night. He does what he's told, Mistress Weatherwax. He's never any trouble.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never said he was.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge fumbled in her purse, as much to escape Granny's stare as to look for the key.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect your Walter sees most of what goes on in the Opera House,' said Granny, taking one of Mrs Plinge's wrists in her hand. 'I wonder what your Walter... saw?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pulse jumped at the same time as the thieves did. Shadows unfolded themselves. There was the scrape of metal.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A low voice said, 'There's two of you, ladies, and there's six of us. There's no use in screaming.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, deary deary me,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge dropped to her knees. 'Oh, please don't hurt us, kind sirs, we are harmless old ladies! Haven't you got mothers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny rolled her eyes. Damn, damn and blast. She was a good witch. That was her role in life. That was the burden she had to bear. Good and Evil were quite superfluous when you'd grown up with a highly developed sense of Right and Wrong. She hoped, oh she hoped, that young though these were, they were dyed‑in‑the‑wool criminals . .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I 'ad a mother once,' said the nearest thief. 'Only I think I must of et 'er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Ah. Top marks. Granny raised both hands to her hat to draw out two long hatpins...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A tile slid off the roof, and splashed into a puddle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A caped figure was visible for a moment against the moonlight. It thrust out a sword at arm's length. Then it dropped, landing lightly in front of one astonished man.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sword whirled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The first thief spun and thrust at the shadowy shape in front of him, which turned out to be another thief, whose arm jerked up and dragged its own knife along the ribcage of the thief beside him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The masked figure danced among the gang, his sword almost leaving trails in the air. It occurred to Granny later that it never actually made contact, but then, it never needed to–when six are against one in a melee in the shadows, and especially if those six aren't used to a target that is harder to hit than a wasp, and even more so if they got all their ideas of knife­fighting from other amateurs, then there's six chances in seven that they'll stab a crony and about one chance in twelve that they'll nick their own earlobe.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two that remained uninjured after ten seconds looked at one another, turned, and ran.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it was over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The surviving vertical figure bowed low in front of Granny Weatherwax. 'Ah. <em class="calibre8">Bella </em>Donna!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a swirl of black cloak and red silk, and it too was gone. For a moment soft footsteps could be heard skimming over the cobbles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny's hand was still halfway to her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well I never!' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down. Various bodies were groaning or making soft bubbling noises.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Deary deary me,' she said. Then she pulled herself together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon we're going to need some nice hot water and some bits of bandage, and a good sharp needle for the stitching, Mrs Plinge,' she said. 'We can't let these poor men bleed to death now, can we, even if they do try to rob old ladies...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge looked horrified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got to be charitable, Mrs Plinge,' Granny insisted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll pump up the fire and tear up a sheet,' said Mrs Plinge. 'Don't know if I can find a needle...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I 'spect I've got a needle,' said Granny, extracting one' from the brim of her hat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knelt down by a fallen thief. 'It's rather rusty and blunt,' she added, 'but we shall have to do the best we can.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The needle gleamed in the moonlight. His round, frightened eyes focused on it, and then on Granny's face. He whimpered. His shoulderblades tried to dig him into the cobbles.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was perhaps as well that no one else could see Granny's face in the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's do some good,' she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella threw his hands in the air. 'Supposing he'd come down in the middle of the act?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, all <em class="calibre8">right,' </em>said Bucket, who was sitting behind his desk as a man might hide behind a bunker. 'I agree. After the show we call in the Watch. No two ways about it. We shall just have to ask them to be discreet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Discreet? Have you ever met a Watchman?' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not that they'll find anything. He'll have been over the rooftops and away, you may depend upon it. Whoever he is. Poor Dr Undershaft. He was always so highly strung.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never more so than tonight,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was tasteless!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella leaned over the desk. 'Tasteless or not, the company are theatre people. Superstitious. One little thing like someone being murdered on stage and they go all to pieces.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He wasn't murdered on stage, he was murdered off stage. And we can't be <em class="calibre8">sure </em>it was murder! He'd been very... depressed, lately.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes had been shocked, but it hadn't been shock at Dr Undershaft's death. She'd been astonished at her own reaction. It had been startling and unpleasant to see the man, but even worse to see herself actually being <em class="calibre8">interested </em>in what was happening–in the way people reacted, in the way they moved, in the things they said. It had been as if she'd stood outside herself, watching the whole thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine, on the other hand, had just folded up. So had Dame Timpani. Far more people had fussed over Christine than around the prima donna, despite the fact that Dame Timpani had come around and fainted again quite pointedly several times and had eventually been forced to go for hysterics. No one had assumed for a minute that Agnes couldn't cope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine had been carried into Salzella's backstage office and put on a couch. Agnes had fetched a bowl of water and a cloth and was wiping her forehead, for there are some people who are destined to be carried to comfortable couches and some people whose only fate is fetching a bowl of cold water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Curtain goes up again in two minutes,' said Salzella. 'I'd better go and round up the orchestra. They'll all be in the Stab In The Back over the road. The swine can get through half a pint before the applause has died away.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are they capable of playing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They never have been, so I don't see why they should start now,' said Salzella. 'They're <em class="calibre8">musicians, </em>Bucket. The only way a dead body would upset them is if it fell in their beer, and even then they'd play if you offered them Dead Body Money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket walked over to the recumbent Christine. 'How is she?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She keeps mumbling a bit–' Agnes began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cup of tea? Tea? Cup of tea, anyone? Nothing nicer than a cup of tea, well, I tell a lie, but I see the couch is occupied, just my little joke, no offence meant, anyone for a nice cup of tea?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked around in horror.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> could certainly do with one,' said Bucket, with false joviality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about you, miss?' Nanny winked at Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...no, thank you... do you <em class="calibre8">work</em> here?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm just helping out for Mrs Plinge, who has been taken poorly,' said Nanny, giving her another wink. 'I'm Mrs Ogg. Don't mind me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This seemed to satisfy Bucket, if only because random tea­distributors represented the most minor of threats at this point.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's more like <em class="calibre8">Grand Guignol </em>than opera out there tonight,' said Nanny. She nudged Bucket. ' 'S foreign for "blood all over the stage",' she said helpfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yep. It means... Big Gignol.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Music started in the distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's the overture to Act Two,' said Bucket. 'Well, if Christine is still unwell, then...' He looked desperately at Agnes. Well, at a time like this people would understand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes's chest swelled further with pride. 'Yes, Mr Bucket?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps we could find you a white–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine, her eyes still shut, raised her wrist to her forehead and groaned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear, what happened?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket knelt down instantly. 'Are you all right? You had a nasty shock! Do you think you could go on for the sake of your art and people not asking for their money back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave him a brave smile. Unnecessarily brave, it seemed to Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I can't disappoint the dear public!' she said..</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Jolly</em> good!' said Bucket. 'I should hurry on out there, then. Perdita will help you–won't you, Perdita?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you'll be in the chorus for the duet,' said Bucket. <em class="calibre8">'Nearby </em>in the chorus.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes sighed. 'Yes, I know. Come on, Christine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dear Perdita...' said Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny watched them go. Then she said, 'I'll have that cup if you've finished with it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Yes. Yes, it was very nice,' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I had a bit of an accident up at the Boxes,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket clutched at his chest. 'How many died?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no one died, no one died. They got a bit damp because I spilled some champagne.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sagged with relief. 'Oh, I wouldn't worry about that,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'When I say spilled... I mean, it went on happening...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved her away. 'It cleans up well off the carpet,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does it stain ceilings?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ogg.,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please just go away.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded, gathered up the teacups and wandered out of the office. If no one questioned an old lady with a tray of tea, they certainly weren't bothered about one behind a pile of washing‑up. Washing‑up is a badge of membership anywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As far as Nanny Ogg was concerned, washing‑up was also something that happened to other people, but she felt that it might be a good idea to stay in character. She found an alcove with a pump and a sink in it, rolled up her sleeves, and set to work.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone tapped her on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You shouldn't do that, you know,' said a voice. 'That's very unlucky.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced around at a stage‑hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, washing‑up causes seven years' bad luck?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You were whistling.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well? I always whistle when I'm thinkin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You shouldn't whistle on stage, I meant.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It's unlucky?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose you could say that. We use whistle codes when we're shifting the scenery. Having a sack of sandbags land on you <em class="calibre8">could </em>be unlucky, I suppose.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny glanced up. His gaze followed hers. just here the ceiling was about two feet away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's just safest not to whistle,' the boy mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll remember that,' said Nanny. 'No whistlin'. Interestin'. We do live and learn, don't we?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtain went up on Act Two. Nanny watched from the wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The interesting thing was the way in which people contrived to keep one hand higher than their necks in case of <em class="calibre8">accidents. </em>There seemed to be far more salutes and waves and dramatic gestures than were strictly called for in the opera.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She watched the duet between Iodine and Bufola, possibly the first in the history of the opera where both singers kept their eyes turned resolutely upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny enjoyed music, as well. If music were the food of love, she was game for a sonata and chips at any time. But it was clear that the sparkle ‑had gone out of things tonight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shook her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure moved through the shadows behind her, and reached out. She turned, and looked at a fearsome face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, hello, Esme. How did you get in?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've still ‑got the tickets so I had to talk to the man on the door. But he'll be right as rain in a minute or two. What's been happening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... the Duke's sung a long song to say that he must be going, and the Count has sung a song saying how nice it is in the springtime, and a dead body's fallen out of the ceiling.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That goes on a lot in opera, does it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't think so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. In the theatre, I've noticed, if you watch dead bodies long enough you can see them move.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Doubt if this one'll move. Strangled. Someone's murdering opera people. I bin chatting to the ballet girls.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's this Ghost they're all talking about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm. Wears one of those black opera suits and a white mask?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did you know that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny looked smug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, I can't imagine who'd want to murder opera people...' Nanny thought of the expression on Dame Timpani's face. 'Except p'raps other opera people. And p'raps the musicians. And some of the audience, p'raps.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't believe in ghosts,' said Granny firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Esme! You know I've got a dozen of 'em in my house!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I believe in <em class="calibre8">ghosts,' </em>said Granny. 'Sad things hangin' around goin' woogy woogy woogy... but I don't believe they kill people or use swords.' She walked away a little. 'There's too many ghosts here already.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny kept quiet. It was best to do so when Granny was listening without using her ears.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does "Bella Donna" mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the nobby name for Deadly Nightshade, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought so. Huh! The cheek of it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only, in <em class="calibre8">opera, </em>it means Beautiful Woman.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Oh.' Granny's hand reached up and patted the iron‑hard bun of her hair. 'Foolishness!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     ...he'd moved like music, like someone dancing to a rhythm inside his head. And his face for a moment in the moonlight was the skull of an angel...
    </em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The duet got another standing ovation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes faded gently back into the chorus. She had to do little else during the remainder of the act except dance, or at least move as rhythmically as she could, with the rest of the chorus during the Gypsy Fair, and listen to the Duke singing a song about how lovely the countryside was in summer. With an arm extended dramatically above his head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She kept peering into the wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If Nanny Ogg was here then the other one would be around somewhere. She wished she'd never written those wretched letters home. Well... they wouldn't drag her back, no matter what they tried...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The remainder of the opera passed without anyone dying, except where the score required them to do so at some length. There was a minor upset when a member of the chorus was almost brained by a sandbag dislodged from a gantry by the stage‑hands stationed there to prevent accidents.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was more applause at the end. Christine got most of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then the curtains closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And opened and closed a few times as Christine took her bows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes felt perhaps she took one more bow than the applause really justified. Perdita, looking out through her eyes, said: of course she did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then they closed the curtains for the last time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The audience went home.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the wings, and up in the flies, the stage­hands whistled their commands. Parts of the world vanished into the aerial darkness. Someone went round and put out most of the lights. Rising like a birthday cake, the chandelier was winched into its loft so that the candles could be snuffed. Then there were the footsteps of the men leaving the loft...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Within twenty minutes of the last handclap of applause the auditorium was empty and dark, except for just a few lights.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the clank of a bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge walked on to the stage, if such a word could be employed for his mode of progress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He moved like a puppet on elastic strings, so that it seemed only coincidentally that his feet touched the ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Very slowly, and very conscientiously, he began to mop the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few minutes a shadow detached itself from the curtains and walked over to him. Walter looked down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello Mister Pussy Cat,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo rubbed against his legs. Cats have an instinct for anyone daft enough to give them food, and Walter certainly was well qualified.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I shall go and find you some milk shall I Mister Cat?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo purred like a thunderstorm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walking his strange walk, advancing only by averages, Walter disappeared into the wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were two dark figures sitting in the balcony.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sad,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's got a good job in the warm and his mother keeps an eye on him,' said Granny. 'A lot of people fare worse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not a big future for him, though,' said Nanny. 'Not when you think about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There was a couple of cold potatoes and half a herring for their supper,' said Granny. 'Hardly a stick of furniture, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shame.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mind you, she's a little bit richer now,' Granny conceded. 'Especially if she sells all those knives and boots,' she added to herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a cruel world for old ladies,' said Nanny, matriarch of a vast extended tribe and undisputed tyrant of half the Ramtops.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Especially one as terrified as Mrs Phnge,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'd be frightened too, if I was old and had Walter to think about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ain't talking about that, Gytha. I know about fear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's true,' said Nanny. 'Most of the people you meet are full of fear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Phnge is living in fear,' said Granny, appear­ing not to hear this. 'Her mind is flat with it. She can't hardly think for the terror. I could feel it coming off of her like mist.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why? Because of the Ghost?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know yet. Not all of it, anyway. But I <em class="calibre8">will</em> find out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny fished in the recesses of her clothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fancy a drink?' she said. There was a muffled <em class="calibre8">clink </em>from somewhere in her petticoats. 'I got champagne, brandy and port. Also some nibbles and biscuits.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg, I believe you are a thief,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I ain't!' said Nanny, and added, with that grasp of advanced morality that comes naturally to a witch: 'Just because I occasionally technic'ly steal some­thing, that doesn't make me a thief. I don't <em class="calibre8">think </em>thief.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's get back to Mrs Palm's.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right,' said Nanny. 'But can we get something to eat first? I don't mind the cooking, but the grub there is a bit of an all‑day breakfast, if you know what I mean...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sound from the stage as they stood up. Walter had returned, followed by a slightly fatter Greebo. Oblivious to the watchers, he continued to mop the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'First thing tomorrow,' said Granny, 'we'll go and see Mr Goatberger the Almanack man again. I've had time to think about what to do next. And then we're going to sort this out.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glared at the innocent figure washing the stage arid said, under her breath: 'What is it you know, Walter Plinge? What is it you've seen?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wasn't it <em class="calibre8">amazing?!' </em>said Christine, sitting up in bed. Her nightdress, Agnes had noted, was white. And extremely lacy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five curtain calls!! Mr Bucket says that's more than anyone's ever had since Dame Gigli!! I'm sure I won't be able to <em class="calibre8">sleep </em>for the excitement!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So you just drink up that lovely hot milk drink I've done for us,' said Agnes. 'It took me ages to carry the saucepan up those stairs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And the flowers!!' said Christine, ignoring the mug Agnes had placed beside her. 'They started arriving right after the performance, Mr Bucket said!! He said–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a soft knock at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine adjusted her dress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened and Walter Plinge shuffled in, hidden under the bouquets of flowers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few steps he stumbled on his own feet, plunged forward, and dropped them. Then he stared at the two girls in mute embarrassment, turned suddenly, and walked into the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine giggled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry mu‑miss,' said Walter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you, Walter,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door closed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't he strange?! Have you seen the way he stares at me?! Do you think you could find some water for these, Perdita?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly, Christine. It's only seven flights of stairs.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And as a reward I shall drink this lovely drink you have made for me!! Has it got spices in it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Spices,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not like one of those potions your witches cook up, is it?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, no,' said Agnes. After all, everyone in Lancre used <em class="calibre8">fresh </em>herbs. 'Er... there's not going to be anything like enough vases for them all, even if I use the guzunder...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The what?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The... you know. It's goes‑under... the bed. Guzunder.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're <em class="calibre8">so funny!!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There won't be, anyway,' said Agnes, blushing hotly. Behind her eyes, Perdita committed murder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then put in all the ones from the earls and knights and I shall see to the others tomorrow!' said Christine, picking up the drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes picked up the kettle and started towards the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita, dear?' said Christine, the mug halfway to her lips.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It did seem to me you were singing the <em class="calibre8">teensiest </em>bit loud, dear! I'm sure it must have been a little difficult for everyone to hear me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Christine,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked down in darkness. Tonight there was a candle burning in a niche on every second landing. Without them the stairs would have been merely dark; <em class="calibre8">with </em>them, shadows crept arid leapt at every corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached the pump in the little alcove by the stage manager's office, and filled the kettle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out on the stage, someone began to sing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was Peccadillo's part of a duet of three hours earlier, but sung without music and in a tenor voice of such tone and purity that the kettle dropped out of Agnes's hand and spilled cold water over her feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She listened for a while, and then realized that she was singing the soprano part under her breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The song came to an end. She could hear, far off, the hollow sound of footsteps retreating in the distance.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ran to the door to the stage, .paused a moment, and then opened it and went forward and out on to the huge dim emptiness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The candles left burning were as much illumination as stars on a clear night. There was no one there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked into the centre of the stage, and stopped, and caught her breath at the shock.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could <em class="calibre8">feel </em>the auditorium in front of her, the huge empty space making the sound that velvet would make if it could snore.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't silence. A stage is never silent. It was the noise produced by a million other sounds that have never quite died away–the thunder of applause, the overtures, the arias. They poured down... fragments of tunes, lost chords, snatches of song.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stepped back, and trod on someone's foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes spun around. 'André, there's no–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone crouched back. 'Sorry miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes breathed out. 'Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all right! You just startled me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Didn't see you miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter was holding something. To Agnes's amazement, the darker shape in the darkness was a cat, flopped over Walter's arms like an old rug and purring happily. It was like seeing someone poking their arm into a mincing machine to see what was jamming it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's <em class="calibre8">Greebo, </em>isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's a happy cat! He's full of milk!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter, why're you in the middle of the stage in the dark when everyone's gone home?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What were <em class="calibre8">you</em> doing miss?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the first time she'd heard Walter ask a question. And he's sort of a janitor, after all, she told herself. He can go anywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... got lost,' she said, ashamed at the lie. 'I... I'll be going up to my room now. Er. Did you hear someone singing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All the time miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant just now.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just now I'm talking to you miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'G'night miss!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She walked through the soft warm gloom to the backstage door, resisting at every step the urge to look round. She collected the kettle and hurried up the stairs. .</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind her, on the stage, Walter carefully lowered Greebo to the floor, took off his beret, and removed something white and papery from inside it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What shall we listen to, Mister Cat? I know, we shall listen to the overture to <em class="calibre8">Die Flederleiv </em>by J. Q. Bubbla, cond. Vochua Doinov.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo gave him the fat‑cheeked look of a cat prepared to put up with practically anything for food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Walter sat down beside him and listened to the music coming out of the walls.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">When Agnes got back to the room Christine was already fast asleep, snoring the snore of those in herbal heaven. The mug lay by the bed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a <em class="calibre8">bad </em>thing to do, Agnes reassured herself. Christine probably needed a good night's sleep. It was practically a kindly act.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned her attention to the flowers. There were quite a lot of roses and orchids. Most of them had cards attached. Many aristocratic men apparently appreciated good singing or, at least, good singing that appeared to come from a face like Christine's.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes arranged the flowers Lancre fashion, which was to hold the pot with one hand and the bouquet in the other and forcibly bring the two into conjunction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The last bunch was the smallest, and wrapped in red paper. There was no card. In fact, there were no flowers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone had merely wrapped up half a dozen blackened and spindly rose‑stems and then, for some reason, sprayed them with scent. It was musky and rather pleasant, but a bad joke all the same. She threw them in the bin with the rubbish, blew out the candle, and sat down to wait.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She wasn't certain for whom. Or what.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a minute or two she was aware that there was a glow coming from the wastebin. It was the barest fluorescence, like a sick glow‑worm, but it was there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She crawled across the floor and peered in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were rosebuds on the dead sticks, transparent as glass, visible only by the glimmer on the edge of each petal. They flickered like marsh lights.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes lifted them out carefully and fumbled in the darkness for the empty mug. It wasn't the best of vases, but it would have to do. Then she sat and watched the ghostly flowers until...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...someone coughed. She jerked her head up, aware that she'd fallen asleep.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Madam?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sir?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice was melodious. It suggested that, at any minute, it might break into song.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Attend. Tomorrow you must sing the part of Laura in Il Truccatore. We have much to do. One night is barely enough. The aria in Act One will occupy much of our time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a brief passage of violin music.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your performance tonight was... good. But there are areas that we must build upon. Attend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you send the roses?!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You like the roses? They bloom only in darkness.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who are you?! Was it you I heard singing just now!?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let us examine the role of Laura in Il Truccatore "The Master of Disguise", also sometimes vulgarly known as "The Man with a Thousand Faces"...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">When the witches arrived at Goatberger's offices next morning they found a very large troll sitting on the stairs. It had a club across its knees and held up a shovel‑sized hand to prevent them going any further.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one's allowed in,' it said. 'Mr Goatberger is in a meetin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How long is this meetin' going to be?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Goatberger is a very elongated meeter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny gave the troll an appraising stare. 'You been in publishin' long?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Since dis mornin',' said the troll proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Goatberger gave you the job?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yup. Come up Quarry Lane and picked me special for...'–the troll's brow creased as it tried to remember the unfamiliar words–'...the fast track inns fast‑movin'_ worlds publishin'.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what exactly is your job?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Ead 'fitter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Souse me,' said Nanny, pushing forward. 'I'd know that stratum anywhere. You're from Copperhead in Lancre, ain't you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're from Lancre, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is Granny Weatherwax, you know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The troll gave her a disbelieving grin, and then its brow corrugated again, and then it looked at Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The one you boys call <em class="calibre8">Aaoograha hoa, you </em>know?' said Nanny. ' "She Who Must Be Avoided"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The troll looked at its club as if seriously considering the possibility of beating itself to death.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny patted it on the lichen‑encrusted shoulder. 'What's your name, lad?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Carborundum, miss,' it mumbled. One of its legs began to tremble.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'm sure you're going to make a good life for yourself here in the big city,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, why don't you go and start now?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The troll gave her a grateful look and fled, without even bothering to open the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Do they really call me that?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes,' said Nanny, kicking herself. 'It's a mark of respect, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've always done my best to get along with trolls, you know that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about the dwarfs?' said Granny, as someone might who had found a hitherto unsuspected boil and couldn't resist poking it. 'Have they got a name for me, too?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's go and see Mr Goatberger, shall we?' said Nanny brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Gytha!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... well... I think it's <em class="calibre8">K'ez'rek d'b'duz,' </em>said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does that mean?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... "Go Around the Other Side of the Mountain",' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was uncharacteristically silent as they made their way up the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny didn't bother to knock. She opened the door and said, 'Coo‑ee, Mr Goatberger! It's us again, just like you said. Oh, I shouldn't try to get out of the window like that–you're three flights up and that bag of money is a bit dangerous if you're climbing around.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man edged around the room so that his desk was between him and the witches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wasn't there a troll downstairs?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's decided to break out of publishing,' said Nanny. She sat down and gave him a big smile. 'I 'spect you've got some money for us.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Goatberger realized that he was trapped. His face contorted into a series of twisted expressions as he experimented with some replies. Then he smiled as widely as Nanny and sat down opposite her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course, things are very difficult at the moment,' he said. 'In fact I can't recall a worse time,' he added, with considerable honesty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at Granny's face. His grin stayed where it was but the rest of his face began to edge away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'People just don't seem to be buying books,' he said. 'And the cost of the etchings, well, it's wicked.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone I knows buys the Almanack,' said Granny. 'I reckon everyone in Lancre buys your Almanack. Everyone in the whole Ramtops buys the Almanack, even the dwarfs. That's a lot of half dollars. And Gytha's book seems to be doing very well.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, of course, I'm glad it's so popular, but what with distribution, paying the peddlers, the wear and tear on–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your Almanack will last a household all winter, with care,' said Granny. 'Providing no one's ill and the paper's nice and thin.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My son Jason buys <em class="calibre8">two </em>copies,' said Nanny. 'Of course, he's got a big family. The privy door never stops swinging­'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes but, you see, the point is... I don't actually have to pay you <em class="calibre8">anything,' </em>said Mr Goatberger, trying to ignore this. His smile had the face all to itself now. 'You paid <em class="calibre8">me</em> to print it, and I gave you your money back. In fact I think our accounts department made a slight error in your favour, but I won't–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His voice trailed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax was unfolding a sheet of paper. 'These predictions for next year...' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where'd you get that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I borrowed it. You can have it back if you like–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, what about them?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're wrong.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, they're wrong? They're <em class="calibre8">predictions!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't see there being a rain of curry in Klatch next May. You don't get curry that early.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know about the predictions business?' said Goatberger. 'You? I've been printing predictions for years.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't do clever stuff for years ahead, like you do,' Granny admitted. 'But I'm pretty accurate if you want a thirty‑second one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed? What's going to happen in thirty seconds?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny told him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Goatberger roared with laughter. 'Oh, yes, that's a good one, you should be writing them for us!' he said. 'Oh, my word. Nothing like being ambitious; eh? That's better than the spontaneous combustion of the Bishop of Quirm, and that didn't even happen! In thirty seconds, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Twenty‑one seconds now,' said Granny.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket had arrived at the Opera House early to see if anyone had died so far today.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He made it as far as his office without a single body dropping out of the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He really hadn't expected it to be like this. He'd <em class="calibre8">liked </em>opera. It had all seemed so artistic. He'd watched hundreds of operas and practically no one had died, except once during the ballet scene in La Triviata when a ballerina had rather over‑enthusiastically been flung into the lap of an elderly gentleman in the front row of the Stalls. She hadn't been hurt, but the old man had died in one incredibly happy instant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone knocked at the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket opened it about a quarter of an inch. 'Who's dead?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'N‑no one Mr Bucket! I've got your letters!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, it's you, Walter. Thank you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took the bundle and shut the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were bills. There were always bills. The Opera House practically runs itself, they'd told him. Well, yes, but it practically ran on money. He rummaged through the let–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was an envelope with the Opera House crest on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at it like a man looks at a very fierce dog on a very thin leash.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It did nothing except lie there and look as gummed as an envelope can be.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Finally he disembowelled it with the, paperknife and then flung it down on the desk again, as if it would bite.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">When it did not do so he reached out hesitantly and withdrew the folded letter. It read as follows:</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     My Dear Bucket,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     I should be most grateful if Christine sings the role of Laura tonight. I assure you she is more than capable.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     The second violinist is a little slow, I feel, and the second act last night was frankly extremely wooden. This really is not good enough.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     My I extend my own welcome to Senor Basilica. I congratulate you on his arrival.
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Wishing you the very best,
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Opera Ghost</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella was eventually located. He read the note. 'You do not intend to accede to this?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She <em class="calibre8">does </em>sing superbly, Salzella.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean the Nitt girl?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... yes... you know what I mean.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But this is nothing less than blackmail!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it? He's not actually threatening anything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You let her... I mean them, of course... you let them sing last night, and much good it did poor Dr Undershaft.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you advise, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was another series of disjointed knocks on the door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come in, Walter,' said Bucket and Salzella together.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter jerked in, holding the coalscuttle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been to see Commander Vimes of the city Watch,' said Salzella. 'He said he'll have some of his best men here tonight. Undercover.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought you said they were all incompetent.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella shrugged. 'We've got to do this properly. Did you know Dr Undershaft was strangled before he was hung?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hanged,' said Bucket, without thinking. 'Men are hanged. It's dead meat that's hung.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed?' said Salzella. 'I appreciate the information. Well, poor old Undershaft was strangled, apparently. And then he was hung.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really, Salzella, you do have a misplaced sense–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've finished now Mr Bucket!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, thank you, Walter. You may go.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mr Bucket!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter closed the door behind him, very conscientiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm afraid it's working here,' said Salzella. 'If you don't find some way of dealing with... are you all right, Mr Bucket?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' Bucket, who'd been staring at the closed door, shook his head. 'Oh. Yes. Er. Walter...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's... all right, is he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, he's got his... funny little ways. He's harmless enough, if that's what you mean. Some of the stage‑hands and musicians are a bit cruel to him... you know, sending him out for a tin of invisible paint or a bag of nail‑holes and so on. He believes what he's told. Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh... I just wondered. Silly, really.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose he is, technically.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I meant‑ Oh, it doesn't matter...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax and Nanny Ogg left Goatberger's office and walked demurely down the street. At least, Granny walked demurely. Nanny leaned somewhat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Every thirty seconds she'd say, 'How much was that again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three thousand, two hundred and seventy dollars and eighty‑seven pence,' said Granny. She was looking thoughtful.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought it was nice of him to look in all the ashtrays for all the odd coppers he could round up,' said Nanny. 'Those he could reach, anyway. How much was that again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three thousand, two hundred and seventy dollars and eighty‑seven pence.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've never had seventy dollars before,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't say just seventy dollars, I said–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I know. But I'm working my way up to it gradual. I'll say this about money. It really chafes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know why you have to keep your purse in your knicker leg,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the last place anybody would look.' Nanny sighed. 'How much did you say it was?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three thousand, two hundred and seventy dollars and eighty‑seven pence.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm going to need a bigger tin.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're going to need a bigger chimney.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could certainly do with a bigger knicker leg.' She nudged Granny. 'You're going to have to be polite to me now I'm rich,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Granny, with a faraway look in her eyes. 'Don't think I'm not considering that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped. Nanny walked into her, with a tinkle of lingerie.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The frontage of the Opera House loomed over them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got to get back in there,' Granny said. 'And into Box Eight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Crowbar,' said Nanny, firmly. 'A No. 3 claw end should do it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're not your Nev,' said Granny. 'Anyway, breaking in wouldn't be the same thing. We've got to have a <em class="calibre8">right </em>to be there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Cleaners,' said Nanny. 'We could be cleaners, and... no, 's not right me being a cleaner now, in my position.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, we can't have that, with you in your position.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glanced down at Nanny as a coach pulled up outside the Opera House. 'O' course,' she said, artfulness dripping off her voice like toffee, 'we could always <em class="calibre8">buy</em> Box Eight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wouldn't work,' said Nanny. People were hurry­ing down the steps with the cuff‑adjusting, sticky looks of welcoming committees everywhere. 'They're scared of selling it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why not?' said Granny. 'There's people dying and the opera goes on. That means someone's prepared to sell his own grandmother if he'd make enough money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'd cost a fortune, anyway,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked at Granny's triumphant expression and groaned. 'Oh, Esme! I was going to save that money for me old age!' She thought for a moment. 'Any­way, it <em class="calibre8">still </em>wouldn't work. I mean, look at us, we don't look like the right kind of people...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico Basilica got out of the coach.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But we <em class="calibre8">know </em>the right kind of people,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Esme!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The shop bell tinkled in a refined tone,, as if it were embarrassed to do something as vulgar as ring. It would have much preferred to give a polite cough.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was Ankh‑Morpork's most prestigious dress shop, and one way of telling was the apparent absence of anything so crass as merchandise. The occasional carefully placed piece of expensive material merely hinted at the possibilities available.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was not a shop where things were bought. This was an emporium where you had a cup of coffee and a chat. Possibly, as a result of that muted conversation, four or five yards of exquisite fabric would change ownership in some ethereal way, and yet nothing so crass as <em class="calibre8">trade </em>would have taken place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shop!' yelled Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A lady appeared from behind a curtain and observed the visitors, quite possibly with her nose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you come to the right entrance?' she said. Madame Dawning had been brought up to be polite to servants and tradespeople, even when they were as scruffy as these two old crows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My friend here wants a new dress,' said the dumpier of the two. 'One of the nobby ones with a train and a padded bum.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In black,' said the thin one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we wants all the trimmings,' said the dumpy one. 'Little handbag onna string, pair of glasses onna stick, the whole thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think perhaps that might be a <em class="calibre8">leetle </em>more than you're thinking of spending,' said Madame Dawning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How much is a leetle?' said the dumpy one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean that this is rather a <em class="calibre8">select </em>dress shop.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's why we're here. We don't want rubbish. My name's Nanny Ogg and this here is... Lady Esmerelda Weatherwax.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Madame Dawning regarded Lady Esmerelda quizzically. There was no doubt that the woman had a certain bearing. And she stared like a duchess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'From Lancre,' said Nanny Ogg. 'And she could have a conservatory if she liked, but she doesn't want one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er...'Madame Dawning decided to play along for a while. 'What style were you considering?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something nobby,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I perhaps would like a <em class="calibre8">leetle </em>more guidance than that–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps you could show us some things,' said Lady Esmerelda, sitting down. 'It's for the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you patronize the opera?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lady Esmerelda patronizes <em class="calibre8">everything,' </em>said Nanny Ogg stoutly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Madame Dawning had a manner peculiar to her class and upbringing. She'd been raised to see the world in a certain way. When it didn't act in that certain way she wobbled a bit but, like a gyroscope, eventually recovered and went on spinning just as if it had. If civilization were to collapse totally and the survivors were reduced to eating cockroaches, Madame Dawning would still use a napkin and look down on people who ate their cockroaches the wrong way round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I will, er, show you, some examples,' she said. 'Excuse me <em class="calibre8">one </em>moment.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scuttled into the long workrooms behind the shop, where there was considerably less gilt, and leaned against the wall and summoned her chief seamstress.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mildred, there are two <em class="calibre8">very </em>strange–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped. They'd <em class="calibre8">followed </em>her!</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They were wandering down the aisle between the rows of dressmakers, nodding at people and inspecting some of the dresses on the dummies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried back. 'I'm <em class="calibre8">sure </em>you'd prefer–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How much is this one?' said Lady Esmerelda, fingering a creation intended for the Dowager Duchess of Quirm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am <em class="calibre8">afraid </em>that one is not for sale–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How much would it be if it was for sale?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Three hundred dollars, I believe,' said Madame Dawning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Five hundred seems about right,' said Lady Esmerelda.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Does it?' said Nanny Ogg. 'Oh, it does, does it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dress was black. At least, in theory it was black. It was black in the same. way that a starling's wing is black. It was black silk, with jet beads and sequins. It was black on holiday.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It looks about my size. We'll take it. Pay the woman, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Madame's gyroscope precessed rapidly. 'Take it? Now? Five hundred dollars? Pay? Pay <em class="calibre8">now</em>? <em class="calibre8">Cash?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See to it, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, all <em class="calibre8">right.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg turned away modestly and raised her skirt. There was a series of rustlings and elasticated twangings, and then she turned around, holding a bag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She counted out fifty rather warm ten‑dollar pieces into Madame Dawning's unprotesting hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now we'll go back into the shop and have a poke around for the other stuff,' said Lady Esmerelda. 'I fancy ostrich feathers myself. And one of those big cloaks the ladies wear. And one of those fans edged with lace.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why don't we get some great big diamonds while we're about it?' said Nanny Ogg sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good idea.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Madame Dawning could hear them bickering as they ambled away up the aisle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked down at the money in her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She knew about old money, which was somehow hallowed by the fact that people had hung on to it for years, and she knew about new money, which seemed to be being made by all these upstarts that were flooding into the city these days. But under her powdered bosom she was an Ankh‑Morpork shop­keeper, and knew that the <em class="calibre8">best </em>kind of money was the sort that was in her hand rather than someone else's. The best kind of money was mine, not yours.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, she was also enough of a snob to confuse rudeness with .good breeding. In the same way that the really rich can never be mad (they're eccentric), so they can also never be rude (they're outspoken and forthright).</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried after Lady Esmerelda and her rather strange friend. Salt of the earth, she told herself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was in time to overhear a mysterious con­versation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm being punished, ain't I, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't imagine what you're talking about, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Just 'cos I had my little moment.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I really don't follow you. Anyway, you said you were at your wits' end with thinking what you'd do with the money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but I'd have quite liked to have been at my wits' end on a big comfy chase longyou somewhere with lots of big strong men buyin' me chocolates and pressin' their favours .on me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Money don't buy happiness, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I only wanted to rent it for a few weeks.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes rose late, the music still ringing in her ears, and dressed in a dream. But she hung a bedsheet over the mirror first, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were half a dozen of the chorus dancers in the canteen, sharing a stick of celery and giggling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And there was André. He was eating something absent­mindedly while staring at a sheet of music. Occasionally he'd wave his spoon in the air with a faraway look on his face, and then put it down and make a few notes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In mid‑beat he caught sight of Agnes, and grinned. 'Hello. You look tired.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've missed all the excitement.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Watch have been here, talking to everyone and asking lots of questions and writing things down very slowly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What sort of questions?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, knowing the Watch, probably "Was it you what did it, then?" They're rather slow thinkers.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh dear. Does that mean tonight's performance is cancelled?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André laughed. He had a rather pleasant laugh. 'I don't think Mr Bucket could possibly cancel it!' he said. 'Even if people <em class="calibre8">are </em>dropping like flies out of the flies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why not?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'People have been queuing for tickets!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He told her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's disgusting!' said Agnes. 'You mean they're coming <em class="calibre8">because </em>it might be dangerous?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Human nature, I'm afraid. Of course, some of them want to hear Enrico Basilica. And... well... Christine seems popular...' He gave her a sorrowful look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't mind, honestly,' lied Agnes. 'Um... how long have you worked here, André?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... only a few months. I... used to teach music to the Seriph's children in Klatch.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um... what do you think about the Ghost?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He shrugged. 'Just some kind of madman, I suppose.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um... do you know if he sings? I mean, is <em class="calibre8">good</em> at singing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I heard that he sends little critiques to the manager. Some of the girls say they've heard someone singing in the night, but they're always saying silly things.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um... are there any secret passages here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked at her with his head on one side. 'Who've you been talking to?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The girls say there are. Of course, <em class="calibre8">they </em>say they see the Ghost all the time. And sometimes in two places at once.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why should they see him more?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perhaps he just likes looking at young ladies. They're always practising in odd corners. Besides, they're all half­crazed with hunger anyway.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aren't you <em class="calibre8">interested </em>in the Ghost? People have been killed!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, people are saying it might have been Dr Undershaft.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But he <em class="calibre8">was </em>killed!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He might have hanged himself. He'd been very depressed lately. And he'd always been a bit strange. Nervy. It's going to be a bit difficult without him, though. Here, I've brought you a stack of old programmes. Some of the notes may help, since you haven't been in the opera long.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stared at them, unseeing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People were disappearing and the first thought that everyone had was that it was going to be inconvenient without them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The show must go on. Everyone said that. People said it all the time. Often they smiled when they said it, but they were serious all the same, under the smile. No one ever said <em class="calibre8">why. </em>But yesterday, when the chorus had been arguing about the money, everyone knew that they weren't actually going to refuse to sing. It was all a game.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The show went on. She'd heard all the stories. She'd heard about shows continuing while fire raged around the city, while a dragon was roosting on the roof, while there was rioting in the streets outside. Scenery collapsed? The show went on. Leading tenor died? Then appeal to the audience for any student of music who knew the part, and give him his big chance while his predecessor's body cooled gently in the wings. Why? It was only a performance, for heaven's sake. It wasn't like something important. But... the show goes on. Everyone took this so much for granted that they didn't even think about it any more, as though there were fog in their heads.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On the other hand... someone was teaching her to sing at night. A mysterious person sang songs on the stage when everyone had gone home. She tried to think of that voice belonging to someone who killed people. It didn't work. Maybe she'd caught some of the fog and didn't <em class="calibre8">want </em>it to work. What sort of person could have that feel for music and kill people?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd been idly turning the pages of an old programme and a name caught her eye.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She quickly shufed through the others beneath. There it was again. Not in every performance, and never in a major role, but it. was there. Generally it played an innkeeper or a servant.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter Plinge?' she said. <em class="calibre8">'Walter? </em>But...<em class="calibre8"> he </em>doesn't sing, does he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held up a programme and pointed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh, no!' André laughed. 'Good heavens... it's a... a kind of convenient name, I suppose. Sometimes someone has to sing a very minor part... perhaps a singer is in a role that they'd rather not be remembered in... well, here, they just go down on the programme as Walter Plinge. Lots of theatres have a useful name like that. Like A. N. Other. It's convenient for everyone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... <em class="calibre8">Walter</em> 
     <em class="calibre8">Plinge?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I suppose it started as a joke. I mean, can you imagine Walter Plinge on stage?' André grinned. 'In that little beret he wears?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What does he think about it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't think he minds. It's hard to tell, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crash from the direction of the kitchen, although it was really more of a crashendo the long­drawn‑out clatter that begins when a pile of plates begins to slip, continues when someone tries to grab at them, develops a desperate counter‑theme when the person realizes they don't have three hands, and ends with the <em class="calibre8">roinroinroin</em> of the one miraculously intact plate spinning round and round on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They heard an irate female voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter Plinge!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry Mrs Clamp!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Damn' thing keeps holding on to the edge of the pan! Let go, you wretched insect–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of crockery being swept up, and then a rubbery noise that could approximately be described as a <em class="calibre8">spoing</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Now</em> where's it gone?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't know Mrs Clamp!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what's that cat doing in here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André turned back to Agnes and flashed her a sad smile. 'It is a little cruel, I suppose,' he said. 'The poor chap is a bit daft.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not at all sure,' said Agnes, 'that I've met anyone here who isn't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grinned again. 'I know,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, everyone acts as if it's only the music that matters! The plots don't make sense! Half the stories rely on people not recognizing their servants or wives because they've got a tiny mask on! Large ladies play the part of consumptive girls! No one can act properly! No wonder everyone accepts me singing for Christine‑that's practically normal compared to opera! It's an operatic kind of idea! There should be a sign on the door saying "Leave your common sense here"! If it wasn't for the music the whole thing would be ridiculous!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She realized he was looking at her with an opera face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course, that's it, isn't it? It is the show that matters, isn't it?' she said. 'It's <em class="calibre8">all</em> show.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not meant to be real,' said André. 'It's not like theatre. No one's saying, "You've got to pretend this is a big battlefield and that guy in the cardboard crown is really a king." The plot's only there to fill in time before the next song.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He leaned forward and took her hand. 'This must be wretched for you,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No male had ever touched Agnes before, except perhaps to push her over and steal her sweets.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled her hand away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I, er, better go and practise,' she said, feeling the blush start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You really picked up the role of Iodine very well,' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I, er, have a private tutor,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then he's really studied opera; that's all I can say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... think he has.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Gytha?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not that I' m complaining or anything...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...but why isn't it me who's being the posh opera patronizes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because you're as common as muck, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Right.' Nanny subjected this statement to some thought and couldn't see any point of inaccuracy that would sway a jury. 'Fair enough.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not as though <em class="calibre8">I</em> like this.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shall I do madam's feet?' said the manicurist. She stared at Granny's boots and wondered if it might be necessary to use a hammer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I got to admit, it's a nice hairstyle,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Madam has <em class="calibre8">marvellous </em>hair,' said the hairdresser. 'What is the secret?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've got to make sure there's no newts in the water,' said Granny. She looked at her reflection in the mirror over the washbasin, and went to look away... and then sneaked another glance. Her lips pursed. 'Hmm,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At the other end, the manicurist had succeeded in getting Granny's boots and socks off. Much to her amazement there was revealed, instead of the corned and bunioned monstrosities she'd been expecting, a pair of perfect feet. She didn't know where to start because there was nowhere to begin, but this manicure was costing twenty dollars and in those circumstances you damn well find something to do.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sat beside their pile of packages and tried to work everything out on a scrap of paper. She didn't have Granny's gift for numbers. They tended to writhe under her gaze and add themselves up wrong.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Esme? I reckon we've spent... probably more'n a thousand dollars so far, and that's not including hirin' the coach, and we haven't paid Mrs Palm for the room.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You said nothing was too much trouble to help a Lancre girl,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But I didn't say nothing was too much money, thought Nanny, and then scolded herself for thinking like that. But she was definitely feeling a little lighter in the underwear regions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There seemed to be a general consensus among the artisans of beauty that they'd done what they could. Granny swivelled the chair around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you think?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg stared. She'd seen many strange things in her life, some of them twice. She'd seen elves and walking stones and the shoeing of a unicorn. She'd had a farmhouse dropped on her head. But she'd never seen Granny Weatherwax in rouge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All her normal expletives of shock and surprise fused instantly, and she found herself resorting to an ancient curse belonging to her grandmother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I'll be <em class="calibre8">mogadored!' </em>she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Madam has extremely good skin,' said the cosmetics lady.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know,' said Granny. 'Can't seem to do anything about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll be <em class="calibre8">mogadored!' </em>said Nanny again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Powder and paint,' said Granny. 'Huh. Just another kind of mask. Oh, well.' She gave the hairdresser a dreadful smile. 'How much do we owe you?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... thirty dollars?' said the hairdresser. 'That is...,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Give the w... man thirty dollars and another twenty to make up for his trouble,' said Granny, clutching at her head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fifty dollars? You could buy a <em class="calibre8">shop</em> for–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, all <em class="calibre8">right. </em>'Scuse me, I'm just going to the bank.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned away demurely, raised the hem of her skirt</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑twangtwingtwongtwang</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑and turned back with a handful of coins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There you go, my good wo... sir,' she said sourly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a coach waiting outside. It was the best Granny had been able to hire with Nanny's money. A footman held open the door as Nanny helped her friend aboard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'll go straight to Mrs Palm's so's I can change,' said Granny as they pulled away. 'And then to the Opera House. We ain't got much time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never felt better.' Granny patted her hair. 'Gytha Ogg, you wouldn't be a witch if you couldn't jump to conclusions, right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny nodded. 'Oh, yes.' There was no shame in it. Sometimes there wasn't time to do anything else but take a flying leap. Sometimes you had to trust to experience and intuition and general awareness and take a running jump. Nanny herself could clear quite a tall conclusion from a standing start.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So I've no doubt at all that there's some kind of idea floating around in your mind about this Ghost...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... sort of an idea, yes...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A name, perhaps?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny shifted uncomfortably, and not only because of the moneybags under her skirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I got to admit something crossed my mind. A kind of... feeling. I mean, you never can tell...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded. 'Yes. It's all neat, isn't it? It's a lie.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You said last night you saw the whole thing!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's still a lie. Like the lie about masks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What lie about masks?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The way people say they hide faces.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They <em class="calibre8">do</em> hide faces;' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only the one on the outside.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">No one took much notice of Agnes. The stage was being set for the new performance tonight. The orchestra was rehearsing. The ballerinas had been herded into their practice‑room. In various other rooms people were singing at cross‑purposes. But no one seemed to want her to do anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">I'm just a wandering voice, she thought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She climbed the stairs to her room and sat on the bed. The curtains were still drawn and, in the gloom, the strange roses glowed. She had rescued them from the bin because they were beautiful, but, in a way, she'd have been happier if they weren't there. Then she could have believed she'd imagined the whole thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no sound from Christine's room. Telling herself that it was really <em class="calibre8">her </em>room <em class="calibre8">anyway</em>, and Christine had just been allowed to borrow it, Agnes went in.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a mess. Christine had got up, got dressed either that or a thorough but overenthusiastic burglar had gone through every drawer in the place–and gone. The bouquets that Agnes had put into whatever receptacles she could find last night were where she had left them. The others were where she had left them, too, and they were already dying.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She caught herself wondering where she could find some jars and pots for them, and hated herself for it. It was as bad as saying 'poot!' You might as well paint 
    WELCOME 
    on yourself and lie down on the doorstep of the universe. It was no fun at all, having a wonderful personality. Oh... and good hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then she went and found pots for them anyway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mirror dominated the room. It seemed to grow a little larger each time she looked at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All right. She had to know, didn't she?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Heart pounding, she felt around the edges of it. There was a little raised area that might have looked like part of the frame, but as her fingers moved across it there was a 'click' and the mirror swung inwards a fraction of an inch. When she pushed at it, it moved.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She breathed out. And stepped in.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's disgusting!' said Salzella. 'It's pandering to the most depraved taste!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket shrugged. 'It's not as though we're putting "Good Chance of Seeing Someone Throttled on Stage" on the posters,' he said. 'But news has got around. People like... drama.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean the Watch didn't want us to shut down?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. They just said we should mount guards like last night and they'd take steps.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Steps to the nearest place of safety, no doubt.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't like it any more than you do, but it's gone too far. We need the Watch now. Anyway, there'd be a riot if we closed. Ankh‑Morpork has always enjoyed... excitement. We're completely sold out. The show must go on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Salzella nastily. 'Would you like me to slit a few throats in the second act? Just so no one feels disappointed?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course not,' said Bucket. 'We don't want any deaths. But...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The 'but' hung in the air like the late Dr Undershaft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella threw up his hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, I believe we are past the worst,' said Mr Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hope so,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's Senor Basilica?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Plinge is showing him his dressing‑room.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Plinge hasn't been murdered?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, no one has been found dead so far today,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That <em class="calibre8">is</em> good news.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, and it must be, oh, at least ten past twelve,' said Salzella with an irony that Bucket quite failed to notice. 'I will go and fetch him up so that we can have lunch, shall I? It must be a good half an hour since he had a snack.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket nodded. After the director had gone he surreptitiously checked his desk drawers again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no letter. Perhaps it <em class="calibre8">was</em> over... Perhaps it was true what they were saying about the late doctor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone knocked at the door, four times. Only one person could achieve four knocks without any rhythm whatsoever.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come in, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge stumbled into the room. 'There's a lady!' he said. 'She's to see Mr Bucket!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg poked her head around the door. 'Coo‑ee,' she said. 'It's only me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's... Mrs Ogg, isn't it?' said Mr Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something slightly worrying about the woman. He didn't recall her name on the list of employees. On the other hand, she was clearly around the place, she wasn't dead, and she made a decent cup of tea, so was it his worry if she wasn't getting paid?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good gracious, I'm not the <em class="calibre8">lady</em>,' said Nanny Ogg. 'I'm as common as muck, me, on the highest authority. No, <em class="calibre8">she's </em>waiting down in the foyer. I thought I'd better nip round here and warn you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Warn me? Warn me about what? I don't have any other appointments this morning. Who is this lady?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you ever heard of Lady Esmerelda Weatherwax?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No. Should I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Famous patron of the opera. Conservatories all over the place,' said Nanny. 'Pots of money, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? But I'm due to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked out of the window. There was a coach and four horses outside. It had so much rococo ornamentation on it that it was surprising it ever managed to move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I–' he began again. 'It is really very incon–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She ain't the sort of person who likes to be kept waiting,' said Nanny, with absolute honesty. And then, because Granny had been getting on her nerves all morning and the initial embarrassment at Mrs Palm's still rankled and there was a streak of mischief in Nanny a mile wide, she added, 'They say she was a famous courtesan in her younger days. They say she didn't like to be kept waiting then, either. Retired now, of course. So they say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know, I've visited most of the major opera houses and I've never heard the name,' mused Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, I heard she likes to keep her donations secret,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket's mental compass once again swung around to point due Money.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'd better show her up,' he said. 'I could perhaps give her a few minutes–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one ever gave Lady Esmerelda less than half an hour,' said Nanny, and gave Bucket a wink. 'I'll go and fetch her, shall I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She bustled away, towing Walter behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket stared after her. Then, after a moment's thought, he got up and checked the set of his moustache in the mirror over the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He heard the door open and turned with his finest smile in place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It faded only slightly at the sight of Salzella, ushering the impressive bulk of Basilica in front of him. The little manager and interpreter fussed along beside him, like a tugboat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, Senor Basilica,' said Bucket. 'I trust the dressing­rooms are to your satisfaction?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Basilica gave him a blank smile while the interpreter spoke in Brindisian, and then replied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Senor Basilica says they are fine but the larder isn't big enough,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haha,' said Bucket, and then stopped when no one else laughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In fact,' he said hurriedly, 'Senor Basilica will I'm sure be very happy to hear that our kitchens have made a special effort to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was <em class="calibre8">another </em>knock at the door. He hurried across and opened it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stood there, but not for long. She pushed him aside and swept into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a choking noise from Enrico Basilica.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Which one of you is Bucket?' she demanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny removed a glove and extended her hand. 'So sorry,' she said. 'Ai am not used to important people opening their own doors. Ai am Esmerelda Weatherwax.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How charming. I've heard so much about you,' lied Bucket. 'Pray let me introduce you. No doubt you know Senor Basilica?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Of course,' said Granny, looking Henry Slugg in the eye. 'I'm sure Senor Basilica recalls the many happy times we've had in other opera houses whose names I can't quite remember at the moment.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry grimaced a smile, and said something to the interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That is astonishing,' said the interpreter. 'Senor Basilica has just said how fondly he recalls meeting you many times before at opera houses that have just slipped his mind at present.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry kissed Granny's hand, and looked up at her with pleading in his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">My word, thought Bucket, that look he's giving her... I wonder if they ever–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, uh, and this is Mr Salzella, our director of music,' he said, remembering himself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Honoured,' said Salzella, giving Granny a firm handshake and looking her squarely in the eye. She nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what's the first thing you'd take out of a burning house, Mr Salzella?' she enquired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He smiled politely. 'What would you like me to take, madam?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She nodded thoughtfully and let go of his hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'May I get you a drink? said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A small sherry,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sidled up to Bucket as he was pouring the drink. 'Who the hell is she?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Apparently she's rolling in money,' whispered Bucket. 'And very keen on opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never heard of her.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, Senor Basilica has, and that's good enough for me. Make yourself pleasant to them, will you, while I try to sort out lunch.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pulled open the door and tripped over Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry!' said Nanny, standing up and giving him a cheerful grin. 'These doorknobs are a bugger to polish, aren't they?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er, Mrs–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">,Ogg.,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑‑Ogg, could you run along to the kitchens and tell Mrs Clamp there will be another one for lunch, please.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right you are.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny bustled away. Bucket nodded approv­ingly. What a reliable old lady, he thought.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't exactly a <em class="calibre8">secret</em>. When the room had been divided a space had been left between the walls. At the far end it opened on to a staircase, a perfectly ordinary staircase, which even had some grubby daylight via a dirt‑encrusted window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes was vaguely disappointed. She had expected, well, a <em class="calibre8">real</em> secret passage, perhaps with a few torches flickering secretly in rather valuable secret wrought‑iron holders. But the staircase had just been walled off from the rest of the place at some time. It wasn't secret–it had merely been forgotten.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were cobwebs in the corners. The cocoons of extinct flies hung down from the ceiling. The air smelled of long‑dead birds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there was a clear track through the dust. Someone had used the stairs several times.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hesitated between up and down, and headed up. That was no great journey–after one more flight it ended at a trapdoor that wasn't even bolted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pushed at it, and then blinked in the un­accustomed light. Wind caught at her hair. A pigeon stared at her, and flew away as she poked her head into the fresh air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door had opened out on to the Opera House's roof, just one more item in a forest of skylights and airshafts.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She went back inside and headed downwards. And became aware, as she did so, of the voices...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old stairs hadn't been <em class="calibre8">totally</em> forgotten. Some­one had at least seen their usefulness as an airshaft. Voices filtered up. There were scales, distant music, snatches of conversation. As she went down she passed through layers of noise, like a very carefully made sundae of sound.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo sat on top of the kitchen cupboard and watched the performance with interest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Use the ladle, why don't you?' said a scene‑shifter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It won't reach! Walter!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Clamp?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Give me that broom!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Clamp!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo looked up at the high ceiling, to which was affixed a sort of thin, ten‑pointed star.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the middle of it was a pair of very frightened eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' "Plunge it into boiling water",'said Mrs Clamp, 'that's what it said in the cook‑book. It never said "Watch out, it'll grip the sides of the pot and spring straight up in the air"–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She flailed around with the broom‑handle. The squid shrank back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And that pasta's all gone wrong,' she muttered. 'I've had it grilling for hours and it's still hard as nails, the wretched stuff.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Coo‑ee, it's only me,' said Nanny Ogg, poking her head around the door, and such was the allembracing nature of her personality that even those who didn't know who she was took this on trust. 'Having a bit of trouble, are you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She surveyed the scene, including the ceiling. There was a smell of burning pasta in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' she said. 'This'd be the special lunch for Senior Basilica, would it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was <em class="calibre8">meant </em>to be,' said the cook, still making ineffectual swipes. 'Blasted thing won't come down, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Other pots were simmering on the long iron range. Nanny nodded towards them. 'What's everyone else having?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mutton and clootie dumplings, with slumpie,' said the cook.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Good honest food,' said Nanny, speaking of wall‑to­wall suet oiled with lard.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And there's supposed to be Jammy Devils for pudding and I've been so tied up with this wretched thing I haven't even made a start!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny carefully took the broom out of the cook's hands. 'Tell you what,' she said, 'you make enough dumplings and slumpie for five people, and I'll help by knocking up a quick pudding, how about that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, that's a very. handsome offer, Mrs–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The jam's in the jar by–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I won't bother about jam,' said Nanny. She looked at the spice‑rack, grinned, and then stepped behind a table for modesty</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑twingtwangtwongtwang­</div>
   <div class="paragraph">–'Got any chocolate?' she said, producing a slim volume. 'I've got a recipe right here that might be fun...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She licked her thumb and opened the book at page 53. Chocolate Delight with Special Secret Sauce.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes, thought Nanny, that <em class="calibre8">would</em> be fun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If people wanted to go around teaching people lessons, other people should remember that those people knew a thing or two about people.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Scraps of conversation floated out of the walls as Agnes wound her secret way down the forgotten stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was... thrilling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one was saying anything important. There were no convenient guilty secrets. There were just the sounds of people getting through the day. But they were <em class="calibre8">secret </em>sounds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was wrong to listen, of course.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes had been brought up in the knowledge that a lot of things were wrong. It was wrong to listen at doors, to look people directly in the eye, to talk out of turn, to answer back, to <em class="calibre8">put yourself forward...</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">But behind the walls she could be the Perdita she'd always wanted to be. Perdita didn't care about anything. Perdita got things done. Perdita could wear anything she wanted. Perdita X Nitt, mistress of the darkness, magdalen of cool, could listen in to other people's lives. And never, ever have to have a wonderful personality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes knew she should go back up to her room. Whatever lay in the increasingly shadowy depths was probably something she ought not to find.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perdita continued downwards. Agnes went along for the ride.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The pre‑luncheon drinks were going quite well, Mr Bucket thought. Everyone was making polite con­versation and absolutely no one had been killed up to the present moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And it had been very gratifying to see the tears of gratitude in Senor Basilica's eyes when he was told that the cook was preparing a special Brindisian meal, just for him. He'd seemed quite overcome.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was reassuring that he knew Lady Esmerelda. There was something about the woman that left Mr Bucket terribly perplexed. He was finding it a little difficult to converse with her. As a conversational gambit, 'Hello, I understand you have a lot of money, can I have some please?' lacked, he felt, a certain subtlety.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So, er, madam,' he ventured, 'what brings you to our, er, city?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought perhaps I could come and spend some money,' said Granny. 'Got rather a lot of it, you know. Keep havin' to change banks 'cos they get filled up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere in Bucket's tortured brain, part of his mind went 'whoopee' and clicked its heels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure if there's anything I can do–' he murmured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As a matter of fact, there is,' said Granny. 'I was thinking of–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A gong banged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Mr Bucket. 'Luncheon is served.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He extended his arm to Granny, who gave it an odd look before remembering who she was and taking it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a small exclusive dining‑room off his office. It contained a table set for five and, looking rather fetching in a waitress's lacy bonnet, Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She bobbed a curtsey.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico Basilica made a tiny strangling noise at the back of his throat.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Scuse me, there's been a bit of a problem,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's dead?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no one's dead,' said Nanny. 'It's the dinner, it's still alive and hangin' on to the ceiling. And the pasta's all gone black, see. I said to Mrs Clamp, I said, it may be foreign but I don't reckon it should be crunchy</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is terrible! What a way to treat an honoured guest!' said Bucket. He turned to the interpreter. 'Please assure Senor Basilica that we will send out for fresh pasta straight away. What were we having, Mrs Ogg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Roast mutton with clootie dumplings,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind the face of Senor Basilica the throat of Henry Slugg made another little growling sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And there's some nice slumpie with a knob of butter,' Nanny went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked around, puzzled. 'Is there a dog somewhere in here?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, I for one don't believe in pandering to singers,' said Granny Weatherwax. 'Fancy food, indeed! I never heard the like! Why not give him mutton with the rest of us?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Lady Esmerelda, that's hardly a way to treat–' Bucket began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico's elbow nudged his interpreter, with the special nudge of a man who could see clootie dumplings vanishing into the long grass if he weren't careful. He rumbled out a very pointed sentence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Senor Basilica says he would be more than happy to taste the indigenous food of Ankh‑Morpork,' said the interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, we really can't–' Bucket tried again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In fact Senor Basilica <em class="calibre8">insists</em> that he tries the indigenous food of Ankh‑Morpork,' said the interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'S' right. Si,' said Basilica.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Granny. 'And give him some beer while you're about it.' She gave the tenor's stomach a playful poke, losing her finger down to the second joint. 'Why, in a day or two I expect you could practically turn him into a native!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The wooden stairs gave way to stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perdita said: He'll have a vast cave somewhere under the Opera House. There will be hundreds of candles, casting an exciting yet romantic light over the, yes, the lake, and there will be a dinner‑table shining with crystal glass and silverware, and of course he will have, yes, a huge organ–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes blushed hotly in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">–on which, that is to say, he will play in a virtuoso style many operatic classics.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes said: It'll be damp. There will be rats.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Another clootie dumpling, Senior?' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmfmmfmmf!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take two while you're about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was an education watching Enrico Basilica eat. It wasn't as though he gobbled his food, but he <em class="calibre8">did </em>eat continuously, like a man who intends to go on doing it all day on industrial lines, his napkin tucked neatly into his collar. The fork was loaded while the current consignment was being thoroughly masticated, so that the actual time between mouthfuls was as small as possible. Even Nanny, no stranger to a metabolism going for the burn, was impressed. Enrico Basilica ate like a man freed at last from the tyranny of tomatoes with everything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll order another mint‑sauce tanker, shall I?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket turned to Granny Weatherwax. 'You were saying that you might be inclined to patronize our Opera House,' he murmured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Granny. 'Is Senor Basilica going to sing tonight?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmfmmf'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hope so,' muttered Salzella. 'That or explode.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then I shall definitely want to be there,' said Granny. 'A little more lamb here, my good woman.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes ma'am,' said Nanny Ogg, making a face at the back of Granny's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... seats for tonight, in fact, are–' Bucket began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A Box would do me,' said Granny. 'I'm not fussy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In fact, even the Boxes are–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about Box Eight? I've heard as Box Eight is always empty.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket's knife rattled on his plate. 'Er, Box Eight, Box Eight, you see, we don't...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was thinking of donating a little something,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But Box Eight, you see, although technically unsold, is...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two thousand dollars was what I had in mind,' said Granny. 'Oh, dear me, your waitress has let her dumplings go all over the place. It's so difficult to get reliable and <em class="calibre8">polite </em>staff these days, ain't it... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella and Bucket stared at one another across the table.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Bucket said, 'Excuse me, my lady, I must just have a brief discussion with my director of music.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The two men hurried to the far end of the room, where they began to argue in whispers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two thousand dollars!' hissed Nanny, watching them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It might not be enough,' said Granny. 'They're both looking very red in the face.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but <em class="calibre8">two thousand dollars!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's only money.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but it's only my money, not only your money,' Nanny pointed out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We witches have always held everything in common, you know that,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">yes,</em>'said Nanny, and once again cut to the heart of the sociopolitical debate. 'It's easy to hold everything in common when no one's got anything.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Why, Gytha Ogg,' said Granny, 'I thought you despised riches!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right, so I'd like to get the chance to despise them up close.' ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I knows you, Gytha Ogg. Money'd spoil you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd just like the chance to prove that it wouldn't, that's all I'm saying.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hush, they're coming back–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket approached, smiled uneasily, and sat down. 'Er,' he began, 'it has to be Box Eight, does it? Only we could perhaps persuade someone in one of the other–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wouldn't hear of it,' said Granny. 'I've heard that there's no one ever seen in Box Eight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... haha... it's laughable, I know, but there are some old theatrical traditions associated with Box Eight,, absolute rubbish of course, but...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He left the 'but' hanging there hopefully. It froze in the face of Granny's stare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You see, it's haunted,' he mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh lawks,' said Nanny Ogg, vaguely remembering to stay in character. 'Another vat of slumpie, Senior Basilica? And how about another quart of beer?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmfmmf,' said the tenor encouragingly, taking time out from his eating to point a fork at his empty mug.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny went on staring.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me,' said Bucket again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He and Salzella went into another huddle, out of which came sounds like 'But <em class="calibre8">two thousand dollars! </em>That's a lot of shoes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket surfaced again. His face was grey. Granny's stare could do that to people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... because of the danger, er, which of course doesn't exist, haha, we... that is, the management... feel it incumbent on us to insist, that is, politely request, that if you do enter Box Eight you do so in company with a... man.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ducked slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A man?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'For protection,' said Bucket in a little voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Although who'd protect <em class="calibre8">him </em>we really couldn't say,' said Salzella under his breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We thought perhaps one of the staff...' Bucket mumbled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ai am quate capable of finding my own man should the need arise,' said Granny, in a voice with snow on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket's polite reply died in his throat when he saw, just behind Lady Esmerelda, Mrs Ogg grinning like a full moon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone for pudding?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held a big bowl on a tray. There seemed to be a heat haze over it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My word,' he said, 'that looks delicious!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico Basilica looked over the top of his food with the expression of a man who has had the amazing privilege of going to heaven while still alive.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmmf!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre8">was </em>damp. And, with the demise of Mr Pounder, there were indeed rats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stone looked old, too. Of course, all stone was old, Agnes told herself, but this had grown old as masonry. Ankh‑Morpork had been here for thousands of years. Where other cities were built on clay or rock or loam, Ankh‑Morpork was built on Ankh‑Morpork. People constructed new buildings on the remains of earlier ones, knocking out a few doorways here and there to turn ancient bedrooms into cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stairs petered out on damp flagstones, in almost total darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perdita thought it looked romantic and gothic.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes thought it looked gloomy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If someone used this place they'd need lights, wouldn't they? And a fumbling search confirmed it. She found a candle and some matches tucked into a niche in the wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was sobering for Agnes and Perdita together. Someone used this prosaic book of matches with a picture of a grinning troll on the cover, and this piece of perfectly ordinary candle. Perdita would have preferred a flaming torch. Agnes didn't know <em class="calibre8">what </em>she would have preferred. It was just that, if a mysterious person came and sang in the walls, and moved around the place like a ghost, and possibly killed people... well, you'd prefer a bit more style than a box of matches with a picture of a grinning troll on it. That was the sort of thing a <em class="calibre8">murderer </em>would use.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She lit the candle and, in two minds about it all, went on into the dark.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Chocolate Delight with Special Secret Sauce was a great success and heading down the little red lane as though hot­wired.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'More, Mr Salzella?' said Bucket. 'This really is first‑class stuff; isn't it? I must congratulate Mrs Clamp.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There is a certain piquancy, I must say,' said the director of music. 'How about you, Senor Basilica?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmmf.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lady Esmerelda?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't mind if I do,' said Granny, passing her plate across.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure I detect a hint of cinnamon,' said the interpreter, a brown ring around his mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed, and possibly just a trace of nutmeg,' said Mr Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought... cardamom?' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Creamy yet spicy,' said Bucket. His eyes unfocused slightly. 'And curiously... warming.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stopped chewing, and looked down suspiciously at her plate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she sniffed at her spoon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it, er...is it just me, or is it a trifle... <em class="calibre8">warm</em> in here?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella had gripped the arms of his chair. His forehead glistened. 'Do you think we could open a window?' he said. 'I feel a little... strange.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, by all means,' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella half‑rose, and then a preoccupied expression suffused his features. He sat down suddenly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, I rather believe I'll just sit quietly for a moment,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, dear,' said the interpreter. There was a hint of vapour around his collar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Basilica tapped him politely on the shoulder, grunted hopefully, and made pass‑it‑here motions in the direction of the half‑finished dish of chocolate pudding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmmf?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">dear</em>,'said the interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket ran a finger around his collar. Sweat was beginning to roll down his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Basilica gave up on his stricken colleague and reached across in a businesslike way to hook the dish with his fork.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... Yes,' said Bucket, trying to keep his eyes away from Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes... indeed,' said Salzella, his voice coming from a long way away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">dear,' </em>said the interpreter, his eyes watering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ai! Meu Deus! Dio Mio! O Goden! D'zuk f't! Aagorahaa!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Senor Basilica upended the rest of the Special Secret Sauce on to his plate and carefully scraped out the dish with his spoon, holding it upside‑down to reach the last little bit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The weather has been a little... cool of late,' Bucket managed. 'Very <em class="calibre8">cold</em>, in fact.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico held the sauce‑dish up to the light and regarded it critically in case there was any drop hiding in a corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Snow, ice, frost... that sort of thing,' said Salzella. 'Yes, indeed! Coldness of all descriptions, in fact.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes! Yes!' said Bucket gratefully. 'And at a time like this I think it is very important to try to remember the names of, say, any number of boring and hopefully chilly things!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wind, glaciers, icicles–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not icicles!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' said the interpreter, and slumped forward into his plate. His head hit a spoon, which cartwheeled into the air and bounced off Enrico's head.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella started to whistle under his breath and pound the arm of his chair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket blinked. In front of him was the water jug. The <em class="calibre8">cold</em> water jug. He reached out...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, oh, <em class="calibre8">oh</em>, dear me, what can I say, I seem to have spilled it all over myself,' he said, through the rising clouds of steam. 'What a butterfingers I am, to be sure. I shall ring for Mrs Ogg to bring us another one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed,' said Salzella. 'And perhaps you would care to do it soon? I am also feeling very... accident‑prone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Basilica, still chewing, lifted his interpreter's head off the table and carefully tipped the man's unfinished pudding into his own plate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In fact, in fact, in fact,' said Salzella, 'I think I shall just... have a brisk... have a nice cold...if you would excuse me a minute...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He pushed back his chair and fled the room in a kind of crouching gait.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket glistened. 'I'll just, I'll just, I'll just... be back quite shortly,' he said, and scurried away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was silence, broken only by the scrape of Senor Basilica's spoon and a sizzling noise from the interpreter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the tenor belched baritone. 'Whoops, pardon my Klatchian,' he said. 'Oh... <em class="calibre8">damn</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He appeared to notice the depleted table for the first time. He shrugged, and smiled hopefully at Granny. 'Is there a cheeseboard, do you think?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door flew open and Nanny Ogg burst in, holding a bucket of water in both hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, all right, that's–' she began, and then stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny dabbed primly at the corners of her mouth with her napkin. 'I'm sorry, Mrs Ogg?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked at the empty dish in front of Basilica.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Or perhaps some fruit?' said the tenor. 'A few nuts?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How much has he had?' she whispered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Best part of half,' said Granny. 'But I don't reckon it's having any effect on account of not touching the sides.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny turned her attention to Granny's plate. 'How about you?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Two helpings,' said Granny. 'With <em class="calibre8">extra </em>sauce, Gytha Ogg, may you be forgiven.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked at her with something like admir­ation in her eyes. 'You ain't even sweating!' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny picked up her water glass and held it at arm's length.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">After a few seconds, the water began to boil.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, you're getting really good, I've got to admit it,' said Nanny. 'I reckon I should have to get up real early to put one over on you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon you should never go to sleep,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, Esme.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Senor Basilica, at a loss to follow the conversation, realized with reluctance that the meal was probably over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Absolutely superb,' he said. 'I just <em class="calibre8">loved </em>that pudding, Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should just jolly well expect you did, Henry Slugg,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry carefully removed a clean handkerchief from his pocket, put it over his face, and leaned back in his chair. The first snore occurred a few seconds later.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's easy to have around, isn't he?' said Nanny. 'Eat, sleep and sing. You certainly know where you are with him. I've found Greebo, by the way. He's still following Walter Plinge around.' Her expression became a little defiant. 'Say what you like, young Walter's all right by me if Greebo likes him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sighed. 'Gytha, Greebo would like Norris the Eyeball‑Eating Maniac of Quirm if he knew how to put food in a bowl.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And now she was lost. She'd done her best not to be. As Agnes had walked through each dank room she'd thoughtfully taken note of details. She'd carefully remembered right and left turns. And yet she was lost.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Here and there were steps down to lower cellars, but the water‑level was so high that it was lapping at the first step. And it stank. The candle burned with a greenish‑blue edge to the flame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Somewhere, said Perdita, there <em class="calibre8">was </em>the secret room. If there wasn't a huge and glittering secret cavern, what on earth was life for? There <em class="calibre8">had </em>to be a secret room. A room, full of... giant candles, and enormous stalagmites...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But it certainly isn't <em class="calibre8">here, </em>said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt a complete idiot. She'd gone through the mirror looking for... well, she wasn't quite prepared to admit what she might have been looking for, but whatever it was it certainly wasn't this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd have to shout for help.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Of course, someone might hear, but that was always a risk when you shouted for help.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She coughed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... hello?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The water gurgled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... help? Is there anyone there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A rat ran over her foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Oh, <em class="calibre8">yes, </em>she thought bitterly with Perdita's part of her brain, if <em class="calibre8">Christine </em>had come down here there probably <em class="calibre8">would</em> have been some great glistening cave and delicious danger. The world saved up rats and smelly cellars for Agnes, because she had such a wonderful personality.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Um...anyone?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">More rats scuttled across the floor. There was a faint squeaking from the side‑passages.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was lost in some cellars with a candle getting shorter by the second. The air was foul, the flagstones were slippery, no one knew where she was, she could die down here, she could be–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Eyes glowed in the darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One was green‑yellow, the other pearly white.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A light appeared behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something was coming along the passageway, casting long shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rats tumbled over themselves in their panic to get away...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes tried to press herself into the stone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello Miss Perdita X Nitt!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A familiar shape juddered out of the darkness, just behind Greebo. It was all knees and elbows; it carried a sack over one shoulder and held a lantern in its other hand. Something fled from the darkness. The terror leached out of it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't want to be down here Miss Nitt with all the rats!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got to do Mister Pounder's job now the poor man is passed away! I am a person of all jobs! No peas for the wicked! But Mister Greebo just hits them with his paws and they're off to rat heaven in a jiff!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter!' repeated Agnes, out of sheer relief.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come for an explore have you? These ole tunnels goes all the way to the river! You have to keep your wits about you not to get lost down here! Want to come back with me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was impossible to be frightened of Walter Plinge. Walter attracted a number of emotions, but terror wasn't among them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes,' said Agnes. 'I got lost. Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo sat down and started to wash himself in what Agnes considered to be a supercilious way. If a cat could snigger, he would be sniggering.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now I've got a full sack I have to take it to Mister Gimlet's shop!' announced Walter, turning around and loping out of the cellar without bothering to see if she was following him. 'We get a ha'penny each which is not to be sneezed at! The dwarfs think a rat is a good meal which only goes to show it would be a strange world if we were all alike!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It seemed a ridiculously short journey to the foot of some different stairs, which had a well‑used look to them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Have you ever seen the Ghost, Walter?' said Agnes, as Walter put his foot on the first step.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't turn around. 'It is wrong to tell lies!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes, so I believe. So... when did you last see the Ghost?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I last saw the Ghost in the big room in the ballet school!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? What did he do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter paused for a moment, and then the words came out all together. 'He ran off?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stamped up the stairs in a way that suggested very emphatically that the exchange was over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo sneered at Agnes and followed him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stairs went up just one flight and came out through a trapdoor backstage. She had been lost only a door or two from the real world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one noticed her emerge. But then no one noticed her at all. They just assumed that she'd be around when she was needed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge had already loped off, in something of a hurry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes hesitated. They probably wouldn't even notice she wasn't there, right up to the point when Christine opened her mouth...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hadn't wanted to answer, but Walter Plinge spoke when spoken to and she had a feeling that he wasn't able to lie. Telling lies would be being bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd never seen the ballet school. It wasn't far backstage, but it was a world of its own. The dancers issued from it every day like so many very thin and twittering sheep under the control of elderly women who looked as though they breakfasted on pickled limes. It was only after she'd timidly asked a few questions of the stage‑hands that she'd realized that the girls had joined the ballet because they'd <em class="calibre8">wanted </em>to.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She <em class="calibre8">had </em>seen the dancers' dressing‑room, where thirty girls washed and changed in a space rather smaller than Bucket's office. It bore the same relationship to ballet as compost did to roses.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around again. Still no one had paid any attention to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She headed for the school. It was up a few steps, along a foetid corridor lined with notice‑boards and smelling of ancient grease. A couple of girls fluttered past. You never saw just one: they went around in groups, like mayflies. She pushed open the door and stepped into the school.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Reflections of reflections of reflections...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were mirrors on every wall.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A few girls, practising on the bars that lined the room, looked up as she entered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mirrors...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Out in the passage she leaned against the wall and got her breath back. She'd <em class="calibre8">never </em>liked mirrors. They always seemed to be laughing at her. But didn't they say it was the mark of a witch, not liking to get between two mirrors? It sucked out your soul, or something. A witch would never get between two mirrors if she could help it...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But, of course, she <em class="calibre8">very definitely </em>wasn't a witch. So she took a deep breath, and went back into the room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Images of herself stretched away in every direction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She managed a few steps, then wheeled around and groped for the doorway again, watched by the surprised dancers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Lack of sleep, she told herself. And general over-excitement. Anyway, she didn't <em class="calibre8">need </em>to go right into the room, now that she knew who the Ghost was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was so <em class="calibre8">obvious</em>. The Ghost didn't require any mysterious nonexistent caves when all he needed to do was hide where everyone could see him.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket knocked at the door of Salzella's office. A muffled voice said, 'Come in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was no one in the office, but there was another closed door in the far wall. Bucket knocked again, and then rattled the door handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm in the bath,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you decent?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm fully clothed, if that's what you mean. Is there a pail of ice out there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was it you who ordered it?' said Bucket guiltily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only I, er, I had it taken to my office so I could stick my feet in it...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Your <em class="calibre8">feet?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Er... I went for a brisk run around the city, don't know why, just felt like it...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My boots caught fire on the second lap.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a sloshing noise and some <em class="calibre8">sotto voce </em>grumbling and then the door swung open, revealing Salzella in a purple dressing‑gown.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Has Senor Basilica been safely tethered?' he said, dripping on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's going through the music with Herr Trubelmacher.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he's... all right?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He sent along to the kitchen for a snack.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella shook his head. 'Astonishing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And they've put the interpreter in a cupboard. They don't seem to be able to get him unfolded.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sat down carefully. He was wearing carpet slippers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And–' Salzella prompted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And what?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where did that <em class="calibre8">dreadful </em>woman go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Ogg is showing her around. Well, what else could I do? Two thousand dollars, remember!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I am endeavouring to forget,' said Salzella. 'I promise never to talk about that lunch ever again, if you don't either.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What lunch?' said Bucket innocently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well done.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She does seem to have an amazing effect though, doesn't she...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know who you are talking about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, it's not hard to see how she made her money...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good heavens, man, she's got a face like a hatchet!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They say that Queen Ezeriel of Klatch had a squint, but that didn't stop her having fourteen husbands, and that was only the official score. Besides, she's knocking on a bit...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought she'd been dead for two hundred years!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm talking about Lady Esmerelda.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So am I.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At least try to be civil to her at the soiree before the performance tonight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll try.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The two thousand might be only the start, I hope. Every time I open a drawer there are more bills! We seem to owe money to everyone!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Opera is expensive.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're telling me: Whenever I try to make a start on the books, something dreadful happens. Do you think I might just have a few hours without something awful happening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In an opera house?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The voice was muffled by the half‑dismantled mechanism of the organ.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right–give me middle C.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hairy finger pressed a key. It made a thudding noise and somewhere in the mechanism something else went <em class="calibre8">woing</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Blast, it's come off the peg... hold on again...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The note rang out sweet and clear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'O<em class="calibre8">‑kay,' </em>said the voice of the man hidden in the exposed entrails of the organ. 'Wait until I tighten the peg...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stepped closer. The hulking figure seated at the organ turned around and gave her a friendly grin, which was much wider than the average grin. Its owner was covered in red hair and, while short‑changed in the leg department, had obviously been first in the queue when the arm counter opened. And had also been given a special free offer of lip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...try</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'André?' said Agnes weakly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The organist extracted himself from the mechanism. He was holding a complicated wooden bar with springs on it. 'Oh, hello,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... who is this?' said Agnes, backing away from the primaeval organist.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, this is the Librarian. I don't think he <em class="calibre8">has</em> a name. He's the Librarian at Unseen University but, much more importantly, he's their organist and it turns out our organ is a Johnson, just like theirs. He's given us some spare parts–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Ook</em>'<em class="calibre8"></em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, <em class="calibre8">lent </em>us some spare parts.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He plays the organ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In an amazingly prehensile way, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes relaxed. The creature didn't seem about to attack.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh,' she said. 'Well... I suppose it's natural, because sometimes barrel‑organ men came to our village and they often had a dear little mon–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a crashing chord. The orangutan raised its other hand and waved a finger politely in front of Agnes's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He doesn't like being called a monkey,' said André. 'And he likes you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can you tell?,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He doesn't usually go in for warnings.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stepped back quickly and grabbed the boy's arm. 'Can I have a word with you?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've got only a few hours and I'd really like to get this–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's <em class="calibre8">important</em>.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He followed her into the wings. Behind them, the Librarian tapped a few keys on the half‑repaired keyboard and then ducked underneath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know who the Ghost is,' whispered Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André stared at her. Then he pulled her further into the shadows. 'The Ghost isn't <em class="calibre8">anybody</em>,' he said softly. 'Don't be silly. It's just the Ghost.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean he's someone else when he takes his mask off.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Who.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Should I tell Mr Bucket and Mr Salzella?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Who</em>? Tell them about <em class="calibre8">who</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter Plinge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stared at her again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If you laugh I'll... I'll kick you,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But Walter isn't even–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I didn't believe it either but he said he saw the Ghost in the ballet school and there's mirrors all over the walls and he'd be quite tall if he stood up properly and he roams around in the cellars–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, come <em class="calibre8">on</em>...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The other night I thought I heard him singing on the stage when everyone else had gone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You saw him?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was dark.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, well...' André began dismissively.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But afterwards I'm <em class="calibre8">certain</em> I heard him talking to the cat. Talking normally, I mean. I mean like a normal person, I mean. And you've got to admit... he is strange. Isn't he just the sort of person who'd want to wear a mask to hide who he is?' She sagged. 'Look, I can see you don't want to listen–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! No, I think... well...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I just thought I'd feel better if I told someone.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André smiled in the gloom. 'I wouldn't mention it to anyone else, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked down at her feet. 'I suppose it does sound a bit far‑fetched...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André laid a hand on her arm. Perdita felt Agnes draw herself back. '<em class="calibre8">Do</em> you feel better?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... don't know... I mean... I don't know... I mean, I just can't imagine him hurting anyone... I feel so stupid...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone's on edge. Don't worry about it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'd... hate you to think I was being silly–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll keep an eye on Walter, if you like.' He smiled at her. 'But I'd better get on with things,' he added. He gave her another smile, as fast and brief as summer lightning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank y–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was already walking back to the organ.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">This shop was a gentlemen's outfitters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not for me,' said Nanny Ogg. 'It's for a friend. He's six foot tall, very broad shoulders.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Inside leg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked around the store. Might as well go all the way. It was <em class="calibre8">her </em>money, after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And a black coat, long black tights, shoes with them shiny buckles, one of those top hats, a big cloak with a red silk lining, a bow‑tie, a really posh black cane with a very nobby silver knob on it... and... a black eye‑patch.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An eye‑patch?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Maybe with sequins or something on it, since it's the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tailor stared at Nanny. 'This is a little irregular,' he said. 'Why can't the gentleman come in himself?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He ain't quite a gentleman yet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But, madam, I meant that we have to get the size right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg looked around the shop. 'Tell you what,' she said, 'you sell me something that looks about right and we'll adjust him to fit. 'Souse me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned away demurely</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑twingtwangtwong</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑and turned back, smoothing down her dress and holding a leather bag.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How much'll it be?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tailor looked blankly at the bag. 'I'm afraid we won't be able to have all that ready until at least next Wednesday,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg sighed. She felt she was becoming familiar with one of the most fundamental laws of physics. Time equalled money. Therefore, money equalled time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was sort of hoping to get it all a bit quicker than that,' she said, jingling the bag up and down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tailor looked down his nose at her. 'We are craftsmen, madam. How long did you think it should take?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about ten minutes?' '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twelve minutes later she left the shop with a large packet under one arm, a hatbox under the other, and an ebony cane between her teeth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny was waiting outside. 'Got it all?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ess.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll take the eye‑patch, shall I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We've <em class="calibre8">got</em> to get a third witch,' said Nanny, trying to rearrange the parcels. 'Young Agnes has got good strong arms.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know if we was to drag her out of there by the scruff of her neck we'd never hear the last of it,' said Granny. 'She'll be a witch when she wants to be.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They headed for the Opera House's stage‑door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Afternoon, Les,' said Nanny cheerfully as they entered. 'Stopped itching now, has it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Marvellous bit of ointment that was you gave me, Mrs Ogg,' said the stage‑doorkeeper, his moustache bending into something that might have been a smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mrs Les keeping well? How's her sister's leg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Doing very well, Mrs Ogg, thank you for asking.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is just Esme Weatherwax who's helping me with some stuff,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The doorkeeper nodded. It was clear that any friend of Mrs Ogg was a friend of his. 'No trouble at all, Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As they passed through into the dusty network of corridors Granny reflected, not for the first time, that Nanny had a magic all of her own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny didn't so much enter places as insinuate herself; she had unconsciously taken a natural talent for liking people and developed it into an occult science. Granny Weatherwax did not doubt that her friend already knew the names, family histories, birthdays and favourite topics of conversation of half the people here, and probably also the vital wedge that would cause them to open up. It might be talking about their children, or a potion for their bad feet, or one of Nanny's really filthy stories, but Nanny would be <em class="calibre8">in</em> and after twenty‑four hours they'd have known her all their lives. And they'd tell her things. <em class="calibre8">Of their own free will. </em>Nanny Got On with people. Nanny could get a statue to cry on her shoulder and say what it really thought about pigeons.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a knack. Granny had never had the patience to acquire it. just occasionally, she wondered whether it might have been a good idea.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Curtain up in an hour and a half,' said Nanny. 'I promised Giselle I'd give her a hand...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's Giselle?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She does makeup.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't know how to do makeup!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I distempered our privy, didn't I?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I paint faces on eggs for the kiddies every Soul Cake Tuesday.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got to do anything else, have you?' said Granny sarcastically. 'Open the curtains? Fill in for a ballet dancer who's been taken poorly?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I did say I'd help with the drinks at the swarray,' said Nanny, letting the irony slide off like water on a red‑hot stove. 'Well, a lot of the staff have buggered off 'cos of the Ghost. It's in the big foyer in half an hour. I expect you ought to be there, being a patronizer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's a swarray?' said Granny suspiciously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a sort of posh party before the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do I have to do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Drink sherry and make polite conversation,' said Nanny. 'Or conversation, anyway. I saw the grub being done for it. They've even got little cubes of cheese on sticks stuck in a grapefruit, and you don't get much posher than that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Gytha Ogg, you ain't done any... <em class="calibre8">special</em> dishes, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Esme,' said Nanny Ogg meekly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only you've got an imp of mischief in you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Been far too busy for anything like that,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded. 'Then we'd better find Greebo,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You sure about this, Esme?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We might have a lot to do tonight,' said Granny. 'Maybe we could do with an extra pair of hands.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Paws.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At the moment, yes.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre8">was </em>Walter. Agnes knew it. It wasn't knowledge in her mind, exactly. It was practically something she breathed. She felt it as a tree feels the sun.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It all fitted. He could go anywhere, and no one took any notice of Walter Plinge. In a way he was invisible, because he was always there. And, if you were someone like Walter Plinge, wouldn't you long to be someone as debonair and dashing as the Ghost?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If you were someone like Agnes Nitt, wouldn't you long to be someone as dark and mysterious as Perdita X Dream?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The traitor thought was there before she could choke it off. She added hurriedly: But I've never killed anyone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Because that's what I'd have to believe, isn't it? If he's the Ghost, then he's killed people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All the same... he does look odd, and he talks as if the words are trying to escape...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A hand touched her shoulder. She spun round.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's only me!' said Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...Oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't you think this is a <em class="calibre8">marvellous </em>dress!?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This dress, silly!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked her up and down. 'Oh. Yes. Very nice,' she said, disinterest lying on her voice like rain on a midnight pavement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't sound very impressed!! Really, Perdita, there's no need to be <em class="calibre8">jealous!!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm not jealous, I was thinking...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd only seen the Ghost for a moment, but he certainly hadn't <em class="calibre8">moved </em>like Walter. Walter walked as though his body were being dragged along by his head. But the certainty was as hard as marble now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you don't seem very impressed, I must say!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm wondering if Walter Plinge is the Ghost,' said Agnes, and immediately cursed herself, or at least pooted. She felt embarrassed enough about André's reaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine's eyes widened. 'But he's a clown!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He walks odd and he talks odd,' said Agnes, 'but if he stood up straight–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine laughed. Agnes felt herself getting angry. 'And he practically <em class="calibre8">told </em>me he was!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You believed him, did you?!' Christine made a little tutting sound that Agnes considered quite offensive. 'Really, you girls believe the strangest things!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, <em class="calibre8">we </em>girls?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you know! The dancers are always saying they've seen the Ghost all over the place–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief! Do you think I'm some sort of impressionable idiot? <em class="calibre8">Think </em>for a minute before answering!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, of course I don't, but–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Huh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes strode off into the wings, concerned more with effect than direction. The background noise of the stage faded behind her as she stepped into the scenery store. It didn't lead anywhere except to a pair of big double doors opening to the world outside. It was full of bits of castles, balconies and romantic prison cells, stacked any old how.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine hurried up behind her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I really didn't mean... look, not <em class="calibre8">Walter</em>... he'sjust a very odd odd-job man!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He does all kinds of jobs! No one ever knows where he is–they all just assume he's around!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right, but you don't have to get so worked up–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the faintest of sounds behind them.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost bowed.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who's a good boy, then? Nanny's got a bowl of fish eggs for a good boy,' said Nanny, trying to see under the big dresser in the kitchen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fish eggs?' said Granny, coldly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I borrowed them from the stuff they've done for the swarray,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Borrowed?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right. Come along, Greebo, who's a good boy then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Borrowed. You mean... when the cat's finished with them, you're going to give them back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's only a manner of speaking, Esme,' said Nanny in a hurt little voice. 'It's not the same as stealing if you don't <em class="calibre8">mean </em>it. Come along, boy, here's some lovely fish eggs for you...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo pulled himself further into the shadows.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a little sigh from Christine and she folded up into a faint. But she managed, Agnes noticed sourly, to collapse in a way that probably didn't hurt when she hit the ground and which showed off her dress to the best effect. It was beginning to dawn on Agnes that Christine was remarkably clever in some specialized ways.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked back at the mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's all right,' she said, her voice sounding hoarse even to her. 'I know why you're doing it. I really do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No expression could cross that ivory face, but the eyes flickered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes swallowed. The Perdita part of her wanted to give in right now, because that would be more exciting, but she stood her ground.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You want to be something else and you're stuck with what you are,' said Agnes. 'I know all about that. <em class="calibre8">You're </em>lucky. All <em class="calibre8">you</em> have to do is put on a mask. At least you're the right shape. But why did you have to go and kill people? Why? Mr Pounder couldn't have done you any harm! But... he poked around in odd places, didn't he, and he... found something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost nodded slightly, and then held out his ebony cane. He grasped both ends and pulled, so that a long thin sword slid out.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know who you are!' Agnes burst out, as he stepped forward. 'I... I could probably help you! It might not have been your fault!' She backed away. '<em class="calibre8">I</em> haven't done anything to you! You don't have to be afraid of me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She backed away further as the figure advanced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The eyes, in the dark hollows of the mask, glinted like tiny jewels.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm your <em class="calibre8">friend, </em>don't you see? Please, Walter! <em class="calibre8">Walter!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was, far off, an answering sound that seemed as loud as thunder and as impossible, in the circumstances, as a chocolate kettle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was the clank of a bucket handle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's the matter Miss Perdita Nitt?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost hesitated.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of footsteps. Irregular foot­steps.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost lowered the sword, opened a door in a piece of scenery painted to represent a castle wall, bowed ironically and slipped away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter rounded a corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was an unlikely knight errant. For one thing, he had on evening dress obviously designed for some­one of a different shape. He was still wearing his beret. He also wore an apron and was carrying a mop and bucket. But no heroic lance‑wielding rescuer ever galloped over a drawbridge more happily. He was practically surrounded by a golden glow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...
    Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's the matter with Miss Christine?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She... er... she fainted,' said Agnes. 'Er' Probably... yes, probably the excitement. With the opera. Tonight. Yes. Probably. The excitement. Because of the opera tonight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter gave her a slightly worried look. 'Yes,' he said, and added patiently, 'I know where there's a medicine box shall I get it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine groaned and fluttered her eyelashes. 'Where am I?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Perdita gritted Agnes's teeth. <em class="calibre8">Where am I? </em>That didn't sound the sort of thing someone said when they woke up from a faint; it sounded more like the sort of thing they said because they'd heard it was the sort of thing people said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You fainted,' she said. She looked hard at Walter. 'Why were you in here, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got to mop out the stage‑hands' privy Miss Nitt. Always having trouble I've been working on it for months!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you're wearing evening dress!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes then I got to be a waiter afterwards because we're short‑handed and there's no one else to be a waiter when they have drinks and sausages on poles before the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one could have moved that fast. True, Walter and the Ghost hadn't both been in the room at the same time, but she'd heard his voice. No one could have had time to duck around behind the piles of flats and turn up at the opposite side of the room in seconds, unless they were some sort of wizard. Some of the girls <em class="calibre8">did </em>say the Ghost could almost seem to be in two places at once. Perhaps there were other secret places like the old staircase. Perhaps he–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stopped herself. Walter Plinge wasn't the Ghost, then. There was no sense in trying to find some excitable explanation to prove wrong right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd told Christine. Well, Christine was giving her just a slightly bemused look as Walter helped her up. And she'd told André, but he hadn't seemed to believe her so probably that was all right.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Which meant that the Ghost was...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...someone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd been so <em class="calibre8">certain.</em></div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll enjoy it, mother. You really will.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Tain't for the likes of us, Henry. I don't see why Mr Morecombe couldn't give you tickets to see Nellie Stamp at the music hall. Now that's what I call music. Proper tunes you can understand.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Songs like "She Sits Among the Cabbages and Leeks" are not very cultural, mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two figures wandered through the crowds heading for the Opera House. This was their conversation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S a good laugh, though. And you don't have to hire suits. Seems daft to me, havin' to wear a special suit just to listen to music.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It enhances the experience,' said young Henry, who had read this somewhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean, how does the music know?' said his mother. 'Now, Nellie Stamp–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come <em class="calibre8">along, </em>mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was going to be one of those evenings, he knew it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Lawsy did his best. And, given the starting point, it wasn't a bad best. He was a clerk in the firm of Morecombe, Slant &amp; Honeyplace, a somewhat old­fashioned legal partnership. One reason for its less‑than­-modern approach was the fact that Messrs Morecombe and Honeyplace were vampires and Mr Slant was a zombie. The three partners were, therefore, technically dead, although this did not prevent them putting in a proper day's work–normally during the night, in the case of Mr Morecombe and Mr Honeyplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From Henry's point of view the hours were good and the job was not onerous, but he chafed somewhat about his promotion prospects because clearly dead men's shoes were being fully occupied by dead men. He'd decided that the only way to succeed was to better himself by Improving His Mind, which he tried to do at every opportunity. It is probably a full description of Henry Lawsy's mind that if you had given him a book called <em class="calibre8">How to Improve Your Mind in Five Minutes</em>, he would have read it with a stopwatch. His progress through life was hampered by his tremendous sense of his own ignorance, a disability which affects all too few people.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Morecombe had given him two opera tickets as a reward for sorting out a particularly problematical tort. He'd invited his mother because she represented 100 per cent of all the women he knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People tended to shake Henry's hand cautiously, in case it came off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He'd bought a book about the opera and read it carefully, because he'd heard that it was absolutely unheard‑of to go to an opera without knowing what it was about, and the chance of finding out while you were actually watching it was remote. The book's reassuring weight was in his pocket right now. All he needed to complete the evening was a less embarrassing parent.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can we get some peanuts before we go in?' said his mother.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mother, they don't sell peanuts at the opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No peanuts? What're you supposed to do if you don't like the songs?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's suspicious eyes were two glows in the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Poke him with a broom‑handle,' suggested Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No,' said Nanny. 'With someone like Greebo you have to use a little bit of kindness.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny closed her eyes and waved a hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a yowl from under the kitchen's dresser and a sound .of frantic scrabbling. Then, his claws scoring tracks in the floor, Greebo came out backwards, fighting all the way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mind you, a lot of cruelty does the trick as well,' Nanny conceded. 'You've never been much of a cat person, have you, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo would have hissed at Granny, except that even his cat brain was just bright enough to realize this was not the best move he could make.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Give him his fish eggs,' Granny said. 'He might as well have them now as later.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo inspected the dish. Oh, this was all right, then. They wanted to give him food.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded at Nanny Ogg. They held out their hands, palm‑up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo was halfway through the caviar when he felt It happening.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wrrroowlllll–' he wailed, and then the voice went deeper as his chest expanded, and rose physically as his back legs lengthened under him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His ears flattened against his head, and then crept down the sides.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–llllwwaaaa–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The jacket's a forty‑four‑inch chest,' said Nanny. Granny nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–aaaaoooo–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His face flattened. His whiskers spread out. Greebo's nose developed a life of its own.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'–oooooss... sshit!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He certainly gets the hang of it quicker these days,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You put some clothes on right now, my lad,' said Granny, who had shut her eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not that this made much difference, she had to admit later. Greebo fully clothed still managed to communicate the nakedness beneath. The insouciant moustache, the long sideburns and the tousled black hair combined with the well‑developed muscles to give the impression of the more louche kind of buccaneer or a romantic poet who'd given up on the opium and tried red meat instead. He had a scar running across his face, and a black patch now where it crossed the eye. When he smiled, he exuded an easy air of undistilled, excitingly dangerous lasciviousness. He could swagger while asleep. Greebo could, in fact, commit sexual harassment simply by sitting very quietly in the next room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Except as far as the witches were concerned. To Granny a cat was a damn' cat whatever shape it was, and Nanny Ogg always thought of him as Mister Fluffy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She adjusted the bow‑tie and stood back critically. 'What do you think?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He looks like an assassin, but he'll do,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, what a nasty thing to say!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo waved his arms experimentally and fumbled with the ebony cane. Fingers took a bit of getting used to, but cat reflexes learned fast.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny waved a finger playfully under his nose. He took a half‑hearted swipe at it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now you just stay with Granny and do what she tells you like a good boy,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yess, Nan‑ny,' said Greebo reluctantly. He managed to grip the stick properly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And no fighting.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Nan‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And no leaving bits of people on the doormat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Nan‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'll have no trouble like we did with those robbers last month.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Nan‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked depressed. Humans had no fun. Incredible complications surrounded the most basic activities.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And no turning back into a cat again until we say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yess, Nan‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Play your cards right and there could be a kipper in this for you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yess, Nan‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're we going to call him?' said Granny. 'He can't just be Greebo, which I've always said was a damn' silly name for a cat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, he looks aristocratic–' Nanny began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He looks like a beautiful brainless bully,' Granny corrected her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Aristocratic,' repeated Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Same thing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We can't call him Greebo, anyway.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'll think of something.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella leaned disconsolately against the marble banister of the foyer's grand staircase and stared gloomily into his drink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It had always seemed to him that one of the major flaws in the whole business of opera was the audience. They were quite unsuitable. The only ones worse than the ones who didn't know anything at all about music, and whose idea of a sensible observation was 'I liked that bit near the end when her voice went wobbly', were the ones who thought they did...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Want a drink do you Mister Salzella? There's lots you know!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge ambled by, his black suit making him look like a very good class of scarecrow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Plinge, you just say "Drink, sir?" ' said the director of music. 'And please take off that ridiculous beret.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My mum made it for me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure she did, but–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sidled up to him. 'I thought I told you to keep Senor Basilica away from the canapes!' he hissed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry, I couldn't find a big enough crowbar,' said Salzella, waving away Walter and his beret. 'Anyway, isn't he supposed to be communing with his muse in his dressing‑room? The curtain goes up in twenty minutes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He says he sings better on a full stomach.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then we're in for a big treat tonight.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket turned and surveyed the scene. 'It's going well, anyway,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Watch are here, you know. In secret. They're mingling.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah... let me guess...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella looked around at the crowds. There was, indeed, a very short man in a suit intended for a rather larger man; this was especially the case with the opera cloak, which actually trailed on the floor behind him to give the overall impression of a superhero who had spent too much time around the Kryptonite. He was wearing a deformed fur hat and trying surreptitiously to smoke a cigarette.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean that little man with the words "Watchman in Disguise" flashing on and off just above his head?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where? I didn't see that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella sighed. 'It's Corporal Nobby Nobbs,' he said wearily. 'The only known person to require an identity card to prove his species. I've watched him mingle with three large sherries.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's not the only one, though,' said Mr Bucket. 'They're taking this seriously.,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Salzella. 'If we look over there, for example, we see Sergeant Detritus, who is a toll, and who is wearing what in the circumstances is actually a rather well‑fitting suit. It is therefore, I feel, something of a pity he has neglected to remove his helmet. And these, you understand, the Watch has chosen for their ability to blend.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, they'll certainly be useful if the Ghost strikes again,' said Bucket, hopelessly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost would have to–' Salzella stopped. He blinked. 'Oh, good grief,' he whispered. 'What has she found?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket turned. 'That's Lady Esmerelda... oh.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo strolled in alongside her with the gentle swagger that makes women thoughtful and men's knuckles go white. The buzz of conversation was momentarily hushed, and then rose again to ‑a slightly shriller buzz.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm impressed,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He certainly doesn't look like a <em class="calibre8">gentleman,' </em>said Bucket. 'Look at the colour of that eye!' He set his face into what he hoped was a smile, and bowed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Lady Esmerelda!' he said. 'How pleasant to see you again! Won't you introduce us to your... guest?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is Lord Gribeau,' said Granny. 'Mr Bucket, the owner, and Mr Salzella, who seems to run the place.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haha,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gribeau snarled, revealing longer incisors than any that Bucket had seen outside a zoo. And Bucket had never seen such a greenish‑yellow eye. The pupil was all wrong...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ahaha...' he said. 'And may I order you something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He'll have milk,' said Granny firmly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect he has to keep up his strength,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny spun around. Her expression would have etched steel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone for a drink?' said Nanny Ogg, appearing out of nowhere with a tray and adroitly stepping between them like a very small peace‑keeping force. 'Got a bit of everything here...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Including a glass of milk, I see,' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella looked from one witch to the other. 'That's remarkably foresighted of you,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you never know,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Gribeau took the glass in both hands and lapped at it with his tongue. Then he looked at Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What yourrr lookin aat? Neverrr seem mil‑uk drun beforr?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Never quite...like that, I must admit.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny winked at Granny Weatherwax as she turned to scurry away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny caught her arm. 'Remember,' she whispered, 'when we go into the Box... you keep an eye on Mrs Plinge. Mrs Plinge knows something. I ain't sure what's going to happen. But it is going to happen.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right,' said Nanny. She bustled off, muttering under her breath, 'Oh, yes... do this, do that–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Drink here, please, ma'am.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked down. 'Good grief,' she said. 'What are you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The apparition in the fur hat winked at her. 'I'm the Count de Nobbs,' it said, 'and this here,' it added, indicating a mobile wall, 'is the Count de Tritus.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny glanced at the troll. 'Another Count? I'm sure there's unaccountably more Counts here than I can count. And what can I get you, officers?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Officers? Us?' said the Count de Nobbs. 'What makes you think we're Watchmen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's got a helmet on,' Nanny pointed out. 'Also, he's got his badge pinned to his coat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'I told 
    </em>
    youto put it away!' Nobby hissed. He looked at Nanny and smiled uneasily. 'Milit'ry chic,' he said. 'It's just a fashion accessory. Actually, we are gentlemen of means and have nothing to do with the city Watch whatsoever.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">gentlemen, </em>would you like some wine?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not while we on duty, yanks,' said the troll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes, thank you very much, Count de Tritus,' said Nobby bitterly. 'Oh, yes, very undercover, that is! Why don't you just wave your truncheon around where everyone can see it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, if you t'ink it'd help–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Put it <em class="calibre8">away!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Count de Tritus's eyebrows met with the effort of thought. 'Dat was irony, den, was it? To a superior officer?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't be a superior officer, can you, 'cos we ain't Watchmen. Look, Commander Vimes <em class="calibre8">explained </em>it three times...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg tactfully moved away. It was bad enough watching them blow their cover without sucking at it as well.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was a new world, all right. She was used to a life where the men wore the bright clothes and the women wore black. It made it a lot easier to decide what to put on in the mornings. But inside the Opera House the rules of clothing were all in reverse, just like the laws of common sense. Here the women dressed like frosted peacocks and the men looked like penguins.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So... there were coppers here. Nanny Ogg was basically a law‑abiding person when she had no reason to break the law, and therefore had that kind of person's attitude to law‑enforcement officers, which was one of deep and permanent distrust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was their approach to theft, for example. Nanny had a witch's view of theft, which was a lot more complicated than the attitude adopted by the law and, if it came to it, people who owned property worth stealing. They tended to wield the huge blunt axe of the law in circumstances that required the delicate scalpel of common sense.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No, thought Nanny. Policemen with their great big boots were not required here on a night like this. It would be a good idea to put a thumbtack under the ponderous feet of Justice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ducked behind a gilt statue and fumbled in the recesses of her clothing while people nearby looked around in puzzlement at the erratic twanging of elastic. She was sure she had one around somewhere–she'd packed it in case of emergencies...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the clink of a small bottle. Ah, yes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A moment later Nanny Ogg emerged decorously with two small glasses on her tray, and headed purposefully for the Watchmen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fruit drink, officers?' she said. 'Oh, silly me, what am I saying, I didn't mean officers. Home‑made fruit drink?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus sniffed suspiciously, immediately clear­ing his sinuses. 'What's in it?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Apples,' said Nanny Ogg promptly. 'Well... mainly apples.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under her hand, a couple of spilt drops finished eating their way through the metal of the tray and dropped on to the carpet, where they smoked.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The auditorium buzzed with the sound of opera­goers settling down and Mrs Lawsy trying to find her shoes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You really shouldn't have taken them off, mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'My feet are giving me gyp.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you bring your knitting?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think I must've left it in the Ladies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">mother.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Lawsy marked his place in his book and raised his runny eyes heavenward, and blinked. Right above him–a long way above him–was a glittering circle of light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His mother followed his gaze. 'What's that, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think it's a chandelier, mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a pretty big one. What's holding it up?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure they've got special ropes and things, mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Looks a bit dangerous, to my mind.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure it's absolutely safe, mother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you know about chandeliers?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure people wouldn't come into the Opera House if there was any chance of a chandelier dropping on their heads, mother,' said Henry, trying to read his book.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Il Truccatore, The Master of Disguise. 
    </em>
    IlTruccatore (ten.), a mysterious nobleman, causes scandal in the city when he woos high‑born ladies while disguised as their husbands. However, Laura (sop.), the new bride of Capriccio (bar.), refuses to give in to his blandishments­–</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry put a bookmark in the book, took a smaller book from his pocket, and carefully looked up 'blandishments'. He was moving in a world he wasn't quite sure of; embarrassment lay waiting at every turn, and he wasn't going to get caught out over a word. Henry lived his life in permanent dread of Being Asked Questions Later.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">–and with the help of his servant Wingie (ten.) he adopts a subterfuge–</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The dictionary came out again for a moment.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">‑‑culminating­–</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">And again.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">–in the scene at the famous Masked Ball at the Duke's Palace. But Il Truccatore has not reckoned with his old adversary the Count de­–</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Adversary'...Henry sighed, and reached for his pocket.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Curtain up in five minutes...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella reviewed his troops. They consisted of scene­builders and painters and all those other employees who could be spared for the evening. At the end of the line, about fifty per cent of Walter Plinge had managed to stand to attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, you all know your positions,' said Salzella. 'And if you see anything, anything at all, you are to let me know at once. Do you understand ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We mustn't interrupt the opera Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella shook his head. 'People will understand, I'm sure–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Show must go on Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter, you will do what you're told!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone raised a hand. 'He's got a point, though, Mr Salzella...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella rolled his eyes. 'Just catch the Ghost,' he said. 'If we can do it without a lot of shouting, that's good. Of course I don't want to stop the show.' He saw them relax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A deep chord rolled out over the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What the hell was that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella strode behind the stage and was met by André, looking excited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's going on?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We repaired it, Mr Salzella! Only... well, he doesn't want to give up the seat...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian nodded at the director of music. Salzella knew the orang‑utan, and among the things he knew was that, if the Librarian wanted to sit somewhere, then that was where he sat. But he was a first‑class organist, Salzella had to admit. His lunchtime recitals in the Great Hall of Unseen University were extremely popular, especially since the University's organ had every single sound‑effect that Bloody Stupid Johnson's inverted genius had been able to contrive. No one would have believed, before a pair of simian hands had worked on the project, that something like Doinov's romantic <em class="calibre8">Prelude in G </em>could be rescored for Whoopee Cushion and Squashed Rabbits.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's the overtures,' said André, 'and the ballroom scene...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'At least get him a bow‑tie,' said Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one can see him, Mr Salzella, and he hasn't really got much of a neck...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We <em class="calibre8">do</em> have standards, André.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Mr Salzella.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Since you seem to have been relieved of employment this evening, then perhaps you could help us apprehend the Ghost.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly, Mr Salzella.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Fetch him a tie, then, and come with me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A little later, left to himself, the Librarian opened his copy of the score and placed it carefully on the stand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached down under the seat and pulled out a large brown paper bag of peanuts. He wasn't entirely sure why André, having talked him into playing the organ this evening, had told the other man that it was because he, the Librarian, wouldn't budge. In fact, he'd got some interesting cataloguing to do and had been looking forward to it. Instead, he seemed to be here for the night, although a pound of shelled peanuts was handsome pay by any ape's standards. The human mind was a deep and abiding mystery and the Librarian was glad he didn't have one any more.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He inspected the bow‑tie. As André had foreseen, it presented certain problems to someone who'd been behind the door when the necks were handed out.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax stopped in front of Box Eight and looked around. Mrs Plinge wasn't visible. She unlocked the door with what was probably the most expensive key in the world.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And you behave yourself,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ye‑ess, Gran‑ny,' moaned Greebo.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No going to the lavatory in the corners.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, Gran‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glared at her escort. Even in a bow‑tie, even with his fine moustaches waxed, he was still a cat. You just couldn't trust them to do anything except turn up for meals.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The inside of the Box was rich red plush, picked out with gilt decoration. It was like a soft little private room.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were a couple of fat pillars on either side, supporting part of the weight of the balcony above. She looked over the edge and noted the drop to the Stalls below. Of course, someone could probably climb in from one of the adjacent Boxes, but that'd be in full view of the audience and would be bound to cause some comment. She peeked under the seats. She stood on a chair and felt around the ceiling, which had gilt stars on it. She inspected the carpet minutely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She smiled at what she saw. She'd been prepared to bet that she knew how the Ghost got in, and now she was certain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo spat on his hand and tried ineffectually to groom his hair.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You sit quiet and eat your fish eggs,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ye‑ess, Gran‑ny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And watch the opera, it's good for you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ye‑ess, Gran‑ny.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'Evenin', Mrs Phnge!' said Nanny cheerfully. 'Ain't this excitin'? The buzz of the audience, the air of expectation, the blokes in the orchestra findin' somewhere to hide the bottles and tryin' to remember how to play... all the exhilaration an' drama of the operatic experience waitin' to unfold...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, hello, Mrs Ogg,' said Mrs Plinge. She was polishing glasses in her tiny bar.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly very packed,' said Nanny. She looked sidelong at the old woman. 'Every seat sold, I heard.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This didn't achieve the expected reaction.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shall I give you a hand cleaning out Box Eight?' she went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, I cleaned it out last week,' said Mrs Plinge. She held a glass up to the light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but I heard her ladyship is very particular,' said Nanny. 'Very picky about things.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What ladyship?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Bucket has sold Box Eight, see,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She heard a faint tinkle of glass. <em class="calibre8">Ah.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge appeared at the doorway of her nook. 'But he can't do that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's his Opera House,' said Nanny, watching Mrs Plinge carefully. 'I suppose he thinks he can.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the <em class="calibre8">Ghost's </em>Box!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Opera‑goers were appearing along the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I shouldn't think he'd mind just for one night,' said Nanny Ogg. 'The show must go on, eh? Are you all right, Mrs Plinge?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think I'd just better go and–' she began, stepping forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, you have a good sit down and a rest,' said Nanny, pressing her back with gentle but irresistible force.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I should go and–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">And what, </em>Mrs Plinge? said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman went pale. Granny Weatherwax could be nasty, but then nastiness was always in the window: you were aware that it might turn up on the menu. Sharpness from Nanny Ogg, though, was like being bitten by a big friendly dog. It was all the worse for being unexpected.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I daresay you wanted to go and have a word with somebody, did you, Mrs Plinge?' said Nanny softly. 'Someone who might be a little shocked to find his Box full, perhaps? I reckon I could put a name to that someone, Mrs Plinge. Now, if–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman's hand came up holding a bottle of champagne and then came down hard in an effort to launch the SS <em class="calibre8">Gytha Ogg </em>on to the seas of un­consciousness. The bottle bounced.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then Mrs Plinge leapt past and scuttled away, her polished little black boots twinkling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg caught the doorframe and swayed a little while blue and purple fireworks went off behind her eyes. But there was dwarf in the Ogg ancestry, and that meant a skull you could go mining with.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared muzzily at the bottle. 'Year of the Insulted Goat,' she mumbled. ' 'S a good year.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then consciousness gained the upper hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She grinned as she galloped after the retreating figure. In Mrs Plinge's place she'd have done exactly the same thing, except a good deal harder.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes waited with the others for the curtain to go up. She was one of the crowd of fifty or so townspeople who would hear Enrico Basilica sing of his success as a master of disguise, it being a vital part of the entire process that, while the chorus would listen to expositions of the plot, and even sing along, they would suffer an instant lapse of memory afterwards so that later unmaskings would come as a surprise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">For some reason, without any word being spoken, as many people as possible seemed to have acquired very broad‑brimmed hats. Those who hadn't were taking every opportunity to glance upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Beyond the curtain, Herr Trubelmacher launched the overture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Enrico, who had been chewing a chicken leg, carefully put the bone on a plate and nodded. The waiting stage‑hand dashed off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The opera had begun.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge reached the bottom of the grand staircase and hung on to the banister, panting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The opera had started. There was no one around. And no sounds of pursuit, either.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She straightened up, and tried to get her breath back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Coo‑ee, Mrs Plinge!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg, waving the champagne bottle like a club, was already travelling at speed when she hit the first turn in the banister, but she leaned like a professional and kept her balance as she went into the straight, and then tilted again for the next curve...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...which left only the big gilt statue at the bottom. It is the fate of all banisters worth sliding down that there is something nasty waiting at the far end. But Nanny Ogg's response was superb. She swung a leg over as she hurtled downwards and pushed herself off, her nailed boots leaving grooves in the marble as she spun to a halt in front of the old woman.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge was lifted off her feet and carried into the shadows behind another statue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't want to try and outrun me, Mrs Plinge,' Nanny whispered, as she clamped a hand firmly over Mrs Plinge's mouth. 'You just want to wait here <em class="calibre8">quietly </em>with me. And don't go thinking I'm nice. I'm only nice compared to Esme, but so is practic'ly everyone...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmf!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">With one hand tightly around Mrs Plinge's arm and another over her mouth, Nanny peered round the statue. She could hear the singing, far off:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing else happened. After a while, she started to fret. Perhaps he'd taken fright. Perhaps Mrs Plinge had left him some sort of signal. Perhaps he'd decided that the world was currently too dangerous for Ghosts, although Nanny doubted he could ever decide that...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">At this rate the first act would be over before–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A door opened somewhere. A lanky figure in a black suit and a ridiculous beret crossed the foyer and went up the stairs. At the top, they saw it turn in the direction of the Boxes and disappear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Y'see,' said Nanny, trying to get the stiffness out of her limbs, 'the thing about Esme is, she's stupid...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mmf?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...so she thinks that the most obvious way, d'y'see, for the Ghost to get in and out of the Box is through the door. If you can't find a secret panel, she reckons, it's because it ain't there. A secret panel that ain't there is the best kind there is, the reason bein', no bugger can find it. That's where you people all think too operatic, see? You're all cooped up in this place, listening to daft plots what don't make sense, and I reckon it does something to your minds. People can't find a trapdoor so they say, oh, deary me, what a hidden trapdoor it must be. Whereas a normal person, e.g., me and Esme, we'd say: Maybe there ain't one, then. And the best way for the Ghost to get around the place without being seen is for him to be seen and not noticed. Especially if he's got keys. People don't notice Walter. They looks the other way.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gently released her grip. 'Now, I don't blame you, Mrs Plinge, 'cos I'd do the same for one of mine, but you'd have done better to trust Esme right at the start. She'll help you if she can.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny let Mrs Plinge go, but kept a grip on the champagne bottle, just in case.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What if she can't?' said Mrs Plinge bitterly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You think Walter did those murders?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's a good boy!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure that's the same as a "no", isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They'll put him in prison!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'If he done them murders, Esme won't let that happen,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something sank into Mrs Plinge's not very alert mind. 'What do you mean, she won't let that happen?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean,' said Nanny, 'that if you throw yourself on Esme's mercy, you better be damn' sure you deserve to bounce.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, don't you worry about anything,' said Nanny, perhaps a little late under the circumstances. It occurred to her that the immediate future might be a little bit easier on everyone if Mrs Plinge got some well‑earned rest. She fumbled in her clothing and produced a bottle, half‑full of some cloudy orange liquid. 'I'll just give you a sip of a little something to calm your nerves...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a sort of tonic,' said Nanny. She flicked the cork out with her thumb; on the ceiling above her, the paint crinkled. 'It's made from apples. Well... mainly apples...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge stopped outside Box Eight and looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he removed his beret and pulled out the mask. The beret went into his pocket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He straightened up, and it looked very much as though Walter Plinge with the mask on was several inches taller.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He took a key from his pocket and unlocked the door, and the figure that stepped into the Box did not move like Walter Plinge. It moved as though every nerve and muscle were under full and athletic control.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sounds of the opera filled the Box. The walls had been lined with red velvet and were hung with curtains. The chairs were high and well padded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost slipped into one of them and settled down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure leaned forward out of the other chair and said, 'You carrn't havve my fisssh eggs!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost leapt up. The door clicked behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stepped out from the curtains.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, well, we meet again,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He backed away to the edge of the Box.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I shouldn't think you could jump,' said Granny. 'It's a long way down.' She focused her best stare on the white mask. 'And now, Mister Ghost–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He sprang back on to the edge of the Box, saluted Granny flamboyantly, and leapt upwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny blinked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Up until now the Stare had always worked...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Too damn' <em class="calibre8">dark,' </em>she muttered. 'Greebo!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The bowl of caviar flew out of his nervous fingers and caused a Fortean experience somewhere in the Stalls.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yess, Gran‑ny!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Catch him! And there could be a kipper in it for you!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo snarled happily. This was more like it. Opera had begun to pall for him the moment he realized that no one was going to pour a bucket of cold water over the singers. He understood chasing things.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Besides, he liked to play with his friends.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes saw the movement out of the corner of her eye. A figure had jumped out of one of the Boxes and was climbing up to the balcony. Then another figure clambered after it, scrambling over the gilt cherubs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Singers faltered in mid‑note. There was no mistaking the leading figure. It was the Ghost.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian was aware that the orchestra had stopped playing. Somewhere on the other side of the backcloth the singers had stopped too. There was a buzz of excited conversation and one or two cries.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The hairs all over his body began to prickle. Senses designed to protect his species in the depths of the rainforest had adjusted nicely to the conditions of a big city, which was merely drier and had more carnivores.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He picked up the discarded bow‑tie and, with great deliberation, tied it around his forehead so that he looked like a really formal Kamikaze warrior. Then he threw away the opera score and stared blankly into space for a moment. He knew instinctively that some situations required musical accompaniment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This organ lacked what he considered the most basic of facilities, such as the Thunder pedal, a 128‑foot Earthquake pipe and a complete keyboard of animal noises, but he was certain there was something exciting that could be done in the bass register.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He stretched out his arms and cracked his knuckles. This took some time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then he began to play.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost danced along the edge of the balcony, scattering hats and opera‑glasses. The audience watched in astonishment, and then began to clap. They couldn't quite see how it fitted into the plot of the opera–but this <em class="calibre8">was</em> an opera, after all.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached the centre of the balcony, trotted a little way up the aisle, and then turned and ran down again at speed. He reached the edge, jumped, jumped again, soared out into the auditorium...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...and landed on the chandelier, which jingled and began to sway gently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The audience stood up and applauded as he climbed through the jangling tiers towards the central cable.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then another shape clambered over the edge of the balcony and loped along in pursuit. This was a stockier figure than the first man, one‑eyed, broad in the shoulders and tapering at the waist; he looked evil in an interesting kind of way, like a pirate who really understood the words 'Jolly Roger'. He didn't even take a run but, when he reached the closest part to the chandelier, simply launched himself into space.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was clear that he wasn't going to make it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then it wasn't clear how he did.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Those watching through opera‑glasses swore later that the man thrust out an arm which merely seemed to graze the chandelier and yet was then somehow able to swivel his entire body in mid‑air:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A couple of people swore even harder that, just as the man reached out, his fingernails appeared to grow by several inches.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The huge glass mountain swung ponderously on its rope and, as it reached the end of the swing, Greebo swung out further, like a trapeze artist. There was an appreciative 'oo' from the audience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He twisted again. The chandelier hesitated for a moment at the extremity of its arc, and then swept back again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As it jangled and creaked over the Stalls the hanging figure swung upwards, let go and did a backward somersault that dropped him in the middle of the crystals. Candles and prisms were scattered over the seats below.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And then, with the audience clapping and cheering, he scrambled up the rope after the fleeing Ghost.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Lawsy tried to move his arm, but a fallen crystal had stapled the sleeve of his coat to his armrest.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was a quandary. He was pretty sure this wasn't supposed to happen, but he wasn't <em class="calibre8">certain.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Around him he could hear people hissing questions.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was that part of the plot?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sure it must have been.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. Yes. It certainly was,' said someone further down the row, authoritatively. 'Yes. Yes. The famous chase scene. Indeed. Oh, yes. They did it in Quirm, you know.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh...yes. Yes, of course. I'm sure I heard about it...,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought it was bloody good,' said Mrs Lawsy. 'Mother!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'About time something interesting happened. You should've told me. I'd've put my glasses on.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg pounded up the back stairs towards the fly loft.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Something's gone wrong!' she muttered under her breath as she took the stairs two at a time. 'She reckons she's only got to stare at 'em and they're toffee in her hands, and then who has to sort it out afterwards, eh? Go on, guess...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The ancient wooden door at the top of the stairs gave way to Nanny Ogg's boot with Nanny Ogg's momentum behind it, and cracked open on to a big, shadowy space. It was full of running figures. Legs flickered in the light of lanterns. People were shouting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure ran straight towards her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sprang into a crouch, both thumbs on the cork of the badly shaken champagne bottle she held cradled under one arm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is a magnum,' she said, 'and I'm not afraid to drink it!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure stopped. 'Oh, it's you, Mrs Ogg...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's infallible memory for personal details threw up a card. 'Peter, isn't it?' she said, relaxing. 'The one with the bad feet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right, Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The powder I give you is working, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They're a lot better now, Mrs Ogg–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So what's been happening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella caught the Ghost!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Now that Nanny's eyes had–managed to discern some order in the chaos, she could see a cluster of people in the middle of the floor, around the chandelier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella was sitting on the planking. His collar was torn and a sleeve had been ripped off his jacket, but he had a triumphant look in his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved something in the air.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was white. It looked like a piece of a skull.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was Plinge!' he said. 'I tell you, it was Walter Plinge! Why are you all standing around? Get after him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter?' said one of the men, doubtfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, <em class="calibre8">Walter!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another man hurried up, waving his lantern.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I saw the Ghost heading up to the roof! And there was some big one‑eyed bastard going after him like a scalded cat!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     That's wrong, 
    </em>
    thought Nanny. <em class="calibre8">Something wrong here.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'To the roof!' shouted Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hadn't we better get the flaming torches first?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Flaming torches are not compulsory!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Pitchforks and scythes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's only for vampires!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about just <em class="calibre8">one </em>torch?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get up there now! Understand?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtains closed. There was a smattering of applause which was barely audible above the chatter from the audience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chorus turned to one another. 'Was that supposed to happen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dust rained down. Stage‑hands were scampering across the gantries far above. Shouts echoed among the ropes and dusty backdrops. A stage‑hand ran across the stage, holding a flaming torch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here, what's going on?' said a tenor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'They've got the Ghost! He's heading for the roof! It's <em class="calibre8">Walter Plinge!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Our 
    </em>
    Walter Plinge?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stage‑hand ran on in a trail of sparks, leaving the yeast of rumour to ferment in the ready dough that was the chorus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter? Surely not!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Weeelll... he's a bit odd, isn't he... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But only this morning he said to me, "It's a nice day Mr Sidney!" Just like that. Normal as anything. Well... normal for Walter...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As a matter of fact, it's always worried me, the way his eyes move as though they don't talk to each other–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he's always around the place!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but he's the odd job man–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No argument about that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's not Walter,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They looked at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's who he said they're chasing, dear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know who they're chasing, but Walter's not the Ghost. Fancy anyone thinking Walter's the Ghost!' said Agnes, hotly. 'He wouldn't hurt a fly! Anyway, I've seen–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's always struck me as a bit slimy, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And they say he goes down into the cellars a lot. What for, I ask myself? Let's face it. Fair's fair. He's crazy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He doesn't act crazy!' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, he always looks as though he's about to, you must admit. I'm going to see what's happening. Anyone coming?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes gave up. It was a horrible thing to learn, but there are times when evidence gets trampled and the hunt is on.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">A hatch flew open. The Ghost clambered out, looked down, and slammed the hatch shut. There was a yowl from below.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he danced across the leads until he reached the gargoyle‑encrusted parapet, black and silver in the moonlight. The wind caught at his cloak as he ran along the very edge of the roof and dropped down again near another door.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And a gargoyle was suddenly no longer a gargoyle, but a figure that reached down suddenly and twitched off his mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was like cutting strings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good evening, Walter,' said Granny, as he sagged to his knees.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello Missus Weatherwax!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mistress,' Granny corrected him. 'Now stand up.' There was a growl further along the roof, and then a thump. Bits of trapdoor rose for a moment against the moonlight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's nice up here, ain't it?' said Granny. 'There's fresh air and stars. I thought: up or down? But there's only rats down below.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In another swift movement she grabbed Walter's chin and tilted it, just as Greebo pulled himself on to the roof with prolonged murder in his heart.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How does your mind work, Walter Plinge? If your house was on fire, what's the first thing you'd try to take out?</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo stalked along the rooftop, growling. He liked rooftops in general, and some of his fondest memories involved them, but a trapdoor had just been slammed on his head and he was looking for anything he could disembowel.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he recognized the shape of Walter Plinge as someone who had given him food. And, standing right next to him, the much more unwelcome shape of Granny Weatherwax, who had once caught him digging in her garden and had kicked him in the cucumbers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter said something. Greebo didn't take much notice of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax said: 'Well done. A good answer. Greebo!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo nudged Walter heavily in the back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Want milluk right noaow! Purr, purr!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny thrust the mask at the cat. In the distance people were running up stairs and shouting.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You put this on! And you stay down real low, Walter Plinge. One man in a mask is pretty much like another, after all. And when they chase you, Greebo... give them a run for their money. Do it right and there could be–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yurr, I knoaow,' said Greebo despondently, taking the mask. It was turning out to be a long and busy evening for a kipper.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone poked their head out of the stricken trapdoor. The light glinted off Greebo's mask... and it had to be said, even by Granny, that he made a good Ghost. For one thing, his morphogenic field was trying to reassert itself. His claws could no longer even remotely be thought of as fingernails.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He spat at the pursuit as they poured up the steps, arched his back dramatically on the very edge of the roof, and stepped off.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One storey down he thrust out an arm, caught a windowsill, and landed on the head of a gargoyle, which said 'Oh, fank oo ver' mush' in a reproachful voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pursuers looked down at him. Some of them <em class="calibre8">had </em>managed to get hold of flaming torches, because sometimes convention is too strong to be lightly denied.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo snarled defiance and dropped again, springing from sill to drainpipe to balcony and pausing every now and again for another dramatic pose and another snarl at the pursuers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'd better get after him, Corporal de Nobbs,' said one of them, who was staggering along behind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We'd better get after him by carefully going back down the stairs, you mean. 'Cos somethin' I drank don't want to stay drunk. Much more runnin' and I'll be droppin' a custard, I'm tellin' you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The other members of the posse also seemed to be reaching the conclusion that there was no extended future in chasing a man down the sheer wall of a building. As one mob they turned and, shouting and waving their torches in the air, headed back to the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The parting crowd revealed Nanny Ogg, holding a pitchfork in one hand and a torch in the other and thrusting them both in the air while muttering, 'Rhubarb, rhubarb.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny walked over and tapped her on the shoulder. 'They've gone, Gytha.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rhuba‑ Oh, hello, Esme,' said Nanny, lowering the implements of righteous retribution. 'I was just tagging along to see it didn't get out of hand. Was that Greebo I saw just then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Awww, bless him,' said Nanny. 'He looked a bit bothered, though. I hope he doesn't happen to anybody.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's your broomstick?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's in the cleaners' cupboard backstage.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then I'll borrow it and keep an eye on things,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hey, he's <em class="calibre8">my</em> cat, I ought to be looking after him–' Nanny began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stepped aside, revealing a huddled shape sitting hugging its knees. 'You look after Walter Plinge,' she said. 'It's something you'd be better at than me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello Mrs Ogg!' said Walter, mournfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked at him for a moment.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'So he is the‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You mean he really did do the mur‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do <em class="calibre8">you</em> think?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, if it comes to it, I think he didn't,' said Nanny. 'Can I have a word in your ear, Esme? I don't reckon I should say this in front of young Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches bent their heads together. There was a brief whispered conversation.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everything is simple when you know the answer,' said Granny. 'I'll be back soon.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hurried off. Nanny heard her shoes clattering on the stairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked down at Walter again, and held out her hand. 'Up you get, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect we'd better find somewhere for you to lie low, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know a hidden place Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do, do you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter lurched across the roof towards another trapdoor, and pointed to it proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That?' said Nanny. 'That doesn't look very hidden to‑me, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter gave it a puzzled look, and then grinned in the way a scientist might after he'd solved a particularly difficult equation. 'It's hidden where everyone can see it Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny gave him a sharp look, but there was nothing but a slightly glazed innocence in Walter's eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lifted up the trapdoor and pointed politely downwards. 'You go down the ladder first so I will not see your drawers!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Very... kind of you,' said Nanny. It was the first time anyone had ever said anything like that to her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The man waited patiently until she had reached the bottom of the ladder, and then climbed laboriously down after her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is just an old staircase, isn't it?' said Nanny, prodding at the darkness with her torch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes! It goes all the way down! Except at the bottom where it goes all the way up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyone else know about it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost Mrs Ogg!' said Walter, climbing down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Nanny slowly. 'And where's the Ghost now, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He ran away!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She held up the torch. There was still nothing to be read in Walter's expression. 'What does the Ghost do here, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He watches over the Opera!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's very kind of him, I'm sure.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny started downwards, and as the shadows danced around her she heard Walter say: 'You know she asked me a very silly question Mrs Ogg! It was a silly question any fool knows the answer!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes,' said Nanny, peering at the walls. 'About houses on fire, I expect...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes! What would I take out of our house if it was on fire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect you were a good boy and said you'd take your mum,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! My mum would take herself!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny ran her hands over the nearest wall. Doors had been nailed shut when the staircase had been abandoned. Someone walking up and down here, with a keen pair of ears, could hear a lot of things...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What would you take out then, Walter?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The fire!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny stared unseeing at the wall, and then her face slowly broke into a grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're daft, Walter Plinge,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Daft as a broom Mrs Ogg!' said Walter cheerfully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But you ain't insane, she thought. You're daft but you're sane. That's what Esme would say. And there's worser things.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo pounded along Broadway. He was suddenly not feeling very well. Muscles were twitching in odd ways. A tingling at the base of his spine indicated that his tail wanted to grow, and his ears definitely wanted to creep up the sides of his head, which is always embarrassing when it happens in company.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In this case the company was about a hundred yards behind and apparently intent on moving his ears quite a long way from their current position, embarrassment or not.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was gaining, too. Greebo normally had a famous turn of speed, but not when his knees were trying to reverse direction every few seconds.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His normal plan when pursued was to jump on to the water‑butt behind Nanny Ogg's cottage and rake the pursuer across the nose with his claws when it came around the corner. Since this would now involve a five­hundred‑mile dash, an alternative had to be sought.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a coach waiting outside one of the houses. He lurched over to it, pulled himself up, grabbed the reins and briefly turned his attention to the driver.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Get orffl.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo's teeth shone in the moonlight. The coachman, with great presence of mind and urgent absence of body, somersaulted backwards into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The horses reared, and tried to break into a gallop from a standing start. Animals are less capable of being fooled than are humans; they knew that what they had behind them was a very large cat, and the fact that it was man­shaped didn't make them any happier.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach lumbered off. Greebo looked over his twitching shoulder at the torchlit crowd and waved a paw derisively. The effect pleased him so much that he clambered on to the roof of the swaying coach and continued to jeer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It is a cat‑like attribute to spit defiance at the enemy from a place of safety. In the circumstances it would have been better if cat‑like attributes had included the ability to steer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A wheel hit the parapet of the Brass Bridge and scraped along it, the iron rim kicking up sparks. The shock knocked Greebo from his perch in midgesture. He landed on his feet in the middle of the road, while the terrified horses continued on with the coach rocking dangerously from side to side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pursuers stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's he doing now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's just standing there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's only one of him and there's lots of us, right? We could easily overpower him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good idea. On the count of three, we'll all rush him, right? One... two... three...'Pause. 'You didn't run.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, nor did you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but I was the one saying "one, two, three".'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Remember what he did to Mr Pounder!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, well, I never liked the man all that much...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Greebo snarled. Ticklish things were happening to his body. He threw his head back and roared.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look, at worst he'd only be able to get one or two of us­'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, that's good, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Here, why's he twisting around like that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Maybe he hurt himself falling off the coach–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Let's get .him!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mob closed in. Greebo, struggling against a morphogenic field swinging wildly between species, punched the first man in the face with a hand and clawed the shirt off another man with something more like a giant paw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, shiiiooooo–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twenty hands grabbed him. And then, in the melee and the darkness, twenty hands were holding just cloth and emptiness. Vengeful boots connected with nothing more than air. Clubs that had been swung at a snarling face whirled through empty space and returned to hit their owner on the ear.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑ooooaaawwwwl!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Quite unnoticed in the scrum, a flat‑eared bullet of grey fur shot out from between the scuffling legs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The kicking and punching stopped only when it became apparent that all the mob was attacking was itself. And, since the IQ of a mob is the IQ of its most stupid member divided by the number of mobsters, it was never very clear to anyone what had happened. Obviously they'd closed in on the Ghost, and he certainly couldn't have escaped. All that was left was a mask and some torn clothing. So, the mob reasoned, he must have ended up in the river. And good riddance, too.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Happy in the knowledge of a job well done, they adjourned to the nearest pub.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This left Sergeant Count de Tntus and Corporal the Count de Nobby Nobbs, who lurched to the middle of the bridge and regarded the few scraps of cloth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Commander Vimes isn't...isn't... isn't goin' to like dis,' said Detritus. 'You know he likes prisoners to be alive.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but this one would've been hung anyway,' said Nobby, who was trying to stand upright. 'This way was just a bit more... democratic. A great saving in terms of rope, not to mention wear and tear on locks and keys.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus scratched his head. 'Shouldn't there be some blood?' he ventured.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobby gave him a sour look. 'He couldn't've got away,' he said. 'So don't go asking questions like that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only, if humans is hit hard enough, they leaks all over der place,' said Detritus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nobby sighed. That was the calibre of people you got in the Watch these days. They had to make a mystery of things. In days gone by, when it had been just the old gang and an unofficial policy of <em class="calibre8">lazy fair</em>, they'd have said a heartfelt 'Well done, lads' to the vigilantes and turned in early. But now old Vimes had been promoted to Commander he seemed to be enrolling people who asked questions all the time. It was even affecting Detritus, considered by other trolls to be as dim as a dead glow­worm.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus reached down and picked up an eyepatch.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What d'you think, then?' said Nobby scornfully. 'You think he turned into a bat and flew away?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ha! I do not t'ink that 'cos it is in... consist... ent with modern policing,' said Detritus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, <em class="calibre8">I</em> think,' said Nobby, 'that when you have ruled out the impossible, what is left, however improbable, ain't worth hanging around on a cold night wonderin' about when you could be getting on the outside of a big drink. Come on. I want to try a leg of the elephant that bit me.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Was dat irony?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That was metaphor.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus, uneasy in what was technically his mind, prodded at the torn pieces of clothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Something brushed against his leg. It was a cat. It had tattered ears, one good eye, and a face like a fist with fur on it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hello, little cat,' said Detritus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The cat stretched and grinned. 'Gerrt lorssst, coppuurrrr...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus blinked. There are no such things as troll cats, and Detritus had never seen a cat before he'd arrived in Ankh­Morpork and discovered that they were very, very hard to eat. And he'd never heard of them talking. On the other hand, he was very much aware of his reputation as the most stupid person in the city, and he wasn't going to draw attention to a talking cat if it were going to turn out that everybody except him knew that they talked all the time.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the gutter, a few feet away, there was something white. He picked it up carefully. It looked like the mask the Ghost had worn.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was probably a Clue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He waved it urgently. 'Hey, Nobby–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you.' Something dipped through the darkness, snatched the mask from the troll's hand, and soared into the night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Corporal Nobbs turned around. 'Yes?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... how big are birds? Normally?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, blimey, I dunno. Some are small, some are big. Who cares?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Detritus sucked his finger. 'Oh, no reason,' he said. 'I am far too smart to be taken in by perfec'ly normal t'ings.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Something squelched underfoot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's pretty damp down here, Walter,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And the air was stale and heavy and seemed to be squeezing the light from the torch. There was a dark edge to the flame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not far now Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Keys jingled in the darkness, and some hinges creaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I found this Mrs Ogg! It's the Ghost's secret cave!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Secret cave, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You got to shut your eyes! You got to shut your eyes!' said Walter urgently.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny did so, but to her shame kept a grip on the torch, just in case. She said: 'And is the Ghost in there, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the rattle of a matchbox and some scuffling, and then</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can open them now Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny did so.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Colour and light blurred and then swam into focus, first in her eyes and then, eventually, in her brain. 'Oh, my,' she murmured. 'Oh, my, my...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were candles, the big flat ones used to illuminate the stage, floating in shallow bowls. The light they gave was soft, and it rippled over the room like the soul of water.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It glinted off the beak of a huge swan. It glittered in the eye of a vast, sagging dragon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg turned slowly. Her experience of opera had not been a lengthy one but witches pick things up quickly, and <em class="calibre8">there </em>was the winged helmet worn by Hildabrun in <em class="calibre8">The Ring of the Nibelungingung, </em>and <em class="calibre8">here </em>was the striped pole from <em class="calibre8">The Barber of Pseudopolis, </em>and <em class="calibre8">there </em>was the pantomime horse with the humorous trapdoor from <em class="calibre8">The Enchanted Piccolo, </em>and <em class="calibre8">here...</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">...here was opera, all piled in a heap. Once the eye had taken it all in, it had time to notice the peeling paint and rotting plaster and the general air of gentle mouldering. The decrepit props and threadbare costumes had been dumped in here because people didn't want them anywhere else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But someone <em class="calibre8">did </em>want them here. After the eye had seen the ruin, then there was time for it to see the little patches of recent repair, the careful areas of fresh paint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was something like a desk in the tiny area of floor not occupied by the props. And then Nanny realized that it had a keyboard and a stool, and there were neat piles of paper on top of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter was watching her with a big, proud grin.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny ambled over to the thing. 'It's a harmonium, ain't it? A tiny organ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's right Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny picked up one of the sheaves of paper. Her lips moved as she read the meticulous copperplate writing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An opera about <em class="calibre8">cats?' </em>she said. 'Never heard of an opera about <em class="calibre8">cats...'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">She thought for a moment, and then added to herself But why not? It's a damn good idea. The lives of cats are just like operas, when you come to think about it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She leafed through the other piles. 'Guys <em class="calibre8">and Trolls? Hubwards Side Story? Miserable Les? </em>Who's he? <em class="calibre8">Seven Dwarfs for Seven Other Dwarfs? </em>What're all these, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down on the stool and pressed a few of the cracked yellow keys, which moved with an audible creak. There were a couple of large pedals under the harmonium. You pedalled these and that worked the bellows and these spongy keys produced something which was to organ music what 'poot' was to cursing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">So this was where Wal... where the Ghost sat, thought Nanny, down under the stage, among the discarded wreckage of old performances; down under the huge windowless room where, night after night, music and songs and rampant emotion echoed back and forth and never escaped or entirely died away. The Ghost worked down here, with a mind as open as a well, and it filled up with opera. Opera went in at the ears, and something else came out of the mind.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny pumped the pedals a few times. Air hissed from inefficient seams. She tried a few notes. They were reedy. But, she considered, sometimes the old lie was true, and size really did not matter. It really was what you did with it that counted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter watched her expectantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She took down another wad of paper and peered at the first page. But Walter leaned over and snatched at the script.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That one's not finished Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Opera House was still in uproar. Half the audience had gone outside and the other half was hanging around in case further interesting events were going to transpire. The orchestra was in a huddle in the pit, preparing its request for a special Being Upset By A Ghost Allowance. The curtains were closed. Some of the chorus had stayed on stage; others had hurried off to take part in the chase. The air had the excited electric feel it gets when normal civilized life is temporarily short‑circuited.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes bounced frantically from rumour to rumour. The Ghost had been caught, and it was Walter Plinge. The Ghost had been caught by Walter Plinge. The Ghost had been caught <em class="calibre8">by </em>someone else. The Ghost had escaped. The Ghost was dead.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were arguments breaking out everywhere.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I still can't believe it was Walter! I mean, good grief... Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What about the show? We can't just stop! You <em class="calibre8">never </em>stop the show, not even if someone dies!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, we have stopped when people died...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but only as long as it took to get the body off‑stage!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stepped back into the wings, and trod on something. 'Sorry,' she said automatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It was only my foot,' said Granny Weatherwax. 'So... how is life in the big city, Agnes Nitt?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes turned. 'Oh... hello, Granny...' she mumbled. 'And I'm not Agnes here, thank you,' she added, a shade more defiantly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's a good job, is it, bein' someone else's voice?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm doing what I want to do,' said Agnes. She drew herself up to her full width. 'And you can't stop me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you ain't part of it, are you?' said Granny conversationally. 'You try, but you always find yourself watchin' yourself watchin' people, eh? Never quite believin' anything? Thinkin' the wrong thoughts?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah. Thought so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I have no intention of becoming a witch, thank you very much!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now, don't go getting upset just because you know it's going to happen. A witch you're going to be because a witch you are, and if you turn your back on him now then I don't know what's going to happen to Walter Plinge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's not dead?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes hesitated. 'I <em class="calibre8">knew </em>he was the Ghost,' she began. 'But then I saw he couldn't be.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Granny. 'Believed the evidence of your own eyes, did you? In a place like this?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'One of the stage‑hands just told me they chased him up on to the roof and then down into the street and beat him to death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, well,' said Granny, 'you'll never get anywhere if you believe what you <em class="calibre8">hear. </em>What do you <em class="calibre8">know?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What do you mean, what do I know?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't try cleverness on me, miss.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes looked at Granny's expression, and knew when to fold. 'I know he's the Ghost,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I can see that he isn't.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And I know... I'm pretty <em class="calibre8">sure</em> he doesn't mean any harm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good. Well done. Walter might not know his right from his left, but he does know his right from his wrong.' Granny rubbed her hands together. 'Well, we're already home and looking for a clean towel, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? You haven't solved anything!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Course we have. We know that it wasn't Walter what done the murders, so now we just have to find out who it was. Easy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's Walter now?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nanny's got him somewhere.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's all by herself?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I told you, she's got Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant... well, he's a bit strange.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Only where it shows.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes sighed, and started to say that it wasn't her problem. And realized it was useless even to try. The knowledge sat like a smug intruder in her mind. Whatever it was, it was her problem.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right,' she said. 'I'll help you if I can, because I'm here. But afterwards... that's <em class="calibre8">it</em>! Afterwards, you'll leave me alone. Promise?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Certainly.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... all right, then...' Agnes stopped. 'Oh, no,' she said. 'That was too easy. I don't trust you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't trust me?' said Granny. 'You're saying you don't trust me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. I don't. You'll find a way to wriggle around it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I never wriggle,' said Granny. 'It's Nanny Ogg who thinks we ought to have a third witch. I reckon life's difficult enough without some girl cluttering up the place just because she thinks she looks good in a pointy hat.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a pause. Then Agnes said, 'I'm not falling for <em class="calibre8">that </em>one, either. It's where you say I'm too stupid to be a witch and I say, oh no I'm not, and you end up winning again. I'd rather be someone else's voice than some old witch with no friends and having everyone frightened of me and being nothing more than just a bit cleverer than other people and not doing any <em class="calibre8">real </em>magic at all...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny put her head on one side.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seems to me you're so sharp you might cut yourself,' she said. 'All right. When it's all over, I'll let you go your own way. I won't stop you. <em class="calibre8">Now</em> show me the way to Mr Bucket's office...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny smiled her jolly‑wrinkled‑old‑apple smile. 'Now, you just hand it over, Walter,' she said. 'No harm in letting me see it, is there? Not old Nanny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Can't see it till it's finished!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, now,' said Nanny, hating herself for dropping the atom bomb, 'I'm sure your main wouldn't want to hear that you've been a bad boy, would she?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Expressions floated over Walter's waxen features as he struggled with several ideas at once. Finally, without a word, he thrust the bundle at her, his arms trembling with tension.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a <em class="calibre8">good</em> boy,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced at the first few pages, and then moved them nearer to the light. 'Hmm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She treadled the harmonium for a while and played a few notes with her left hand. They represented most of the musical notes she knew how to read. It was a very simple little theme, such as might be picked out on the keyboard with one finger. 'Hey...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her lips moved as she read the narrative.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well now, Walter,' she said, 'isn't this a sort of opera about a ghost who lives in an opera house?' She turned a page. 'Very smart and debonair, he is. He's got a secret cave, I see...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She played another short riff. 'Catchy music, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She read on, occasionally saying things like 'Well, well' and 'Lawks'. Every now and again she'd give Walter an appraising look.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wonder why the Ghost wrote this, Walter?' she said, after a while. 'Quiet sort of chap, ain't he? Put it all into his music.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter stared at his feet. 'There's going to be a lot of trouble Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, me and Granny will sort it all out,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's wrong to tell lies,' said Walter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably,' said Nanny, who'd never let it worry her up to now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It wouldn't be right for our mum to lose her job Mrs Ogg.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It wouldn't be right, no.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The feeling drifted over Nanny that Walter was trying to put across some sort of message. 'Er... what sort of lies would it be wrong to tell, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter's eyes bulged. 'Lies... about things you see Mrs Ogg! Even if you did see them!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny thought it was probably time to present the Oggish point of view. 'It's all right to tell lies if you don't <em class="calibre8">think </em>lies,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said our mum would lose her job and I'd be locked up if I said Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did he? Which "he" was he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon Granny ought to have a good look at you, Walter,' said Nanny. 'I reckon your mind's all tangled up like a ball of string what's been dropped.' She pedalled the harmonium thoughtfully. 'Was it the Ghost that wrote all this music, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's wrong to tell lies about the room with the sacks in it Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     Ah, 
    </em>
    thought Nanny. 'That'd be down here, would it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He said I wasn't to tell anyone!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who did?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The Ghost Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you're–' Nanny began, and then tried another way. 'Ah, but I ain't anyone,' she said. 'Anyway, if you was to go to this room with the sacks and I was to follow you, that wouldn't be telling anyone, would it? It wouldn't be your fault if some ole woman followed you, would it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter's face was an agony of indecision but, erratic though his thinking might have been, it was no match for Nanny Ogg's meretricious duplicity. He was up against a mind that regarded truth as a reference point but certainly not as a shackle. Nanny Ogg could think her way through a corkscrew in a tornado without touching the sides.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Anyway, it's all right if it's me,' she added for good measure. 'In fact, he prob'ly meant to say "except for Mrs Ogg", only he forgot.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Slowly, Walter reached out and picked up a candle. Without saying a word he walked out of the door and into the damp darkness of the cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg followed him, her boots making squelching noises in the mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It didn't seem like much of a distance. As far as Nanny could work out they were no longer under the Opera House, but it was hard to be sure. Their shadows danced around them and they walked through other rooms, even more dark and dripping than the ones they'd been in. Walter stopped in front of a pile of timber that glistened with rot, and pulled a few of the spongy planks aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were some sacks neatly piled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny kicked one, and it broke.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the flickering candlelight all that she could really see were sparkles of light as the cascade poured out, but there was no mistaking the gentle metallic scraping of lots of money. Lots and lots of money. Enough money to suggest very clearly that it belonged to either a thief or a publisher, and there didn't seem to be any books around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What's this, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's the Ghost's money Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a square hole in the opposite corner of the room. Water glinted a few inches below. Beside the hole were half a dozen containers of various sorts–old biscuit tins, broken bowls and the like. There was a stick, or possibly a dead shrub, in each one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And those, Walter? What are those?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Rose bushes Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Down here? But nothing could gr–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She squelched over to the pots. They'd been filled with muck scraped from the floor. The dead stems glistened with slime.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing could grow down here, of course. There was no light. Everything that grew needed something else to feed on. And...she moved the candle closer, and sniffed the fragrance. Yes. It was subtle, but it was there. Roses in darkness.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, my word, Walter Plinge,' she said. 'Always one for the surprises, you are.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Books were piled on Mr Bucket's desk.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What you're doing is <em class="calibre8">wrong</em>, Granny Weatherwax,' said Agnes from the doorway.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny glanced up. 'Wrong as living other people's lives for them?' she said. 'S' matter of fact, there's something even worse than that, which is living other people's lives for yourself. That kind of wrong?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes said nothing. Granny Weatherwax couldn't <em class="calibre8">know</em>.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny turned back to the books. 'Anyway, this only <em class="calibre8">looks</em> wrong. Appearances is deceivin'. You just pay attention to watching the corridor, madam.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She riffled through the bits of torn envelope and scribbled notes that seemed to be the Opera House's equivalent of proper accounts. It was a mess. In fact, it was more than a mess. It was far too much of a mess to be. a real mess, because a real mess has occasional bits of coherence, bits of what might be called random order. Rather, it was the kind of erratic mess that suggested that someone had set out to be messy.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Take the account books. They were full of tiny rows and columns, but someone hadn't thought it worthwhile to invest in lined paper and had handwriting that wandered a bit. There were forty rows on the left‑hand side but only thirty‑six by the time they reached the other side of the page. It was hard to spot because of the way your eyes watered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What are you doing?' said Agnes, tearing her gaze away from the corridor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Amazin',' said Granny. 'Some things is entered twice! And I reckon there's a page here where someone's added the month and taken away the time of day!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought you didn't like books,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't,' said Granny, turning a page. 'They can look you right in the face and still lie. How many fiddle players are there in the band?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think there are nine violinists in the orchestra.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The correction appeared to pass unnoticed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, there's a thing,' said Granny, without moving her head. 'Seems that twelve of 'em are drawing wages, but three of 'em is over the page, so you mightn't notice.' She looked up and rubbed her hands happily. 'Unless you've got a good memory, that is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She ran a skinny finger down another erratic column. 'What's a flying ratchet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">I</em> don't know!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Says here "Repairs to flying ratchet, new springs for rotation cog assembly, and making good. Hundred and sixty dollars and sixty‑three pence." Hah!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She licked her finger and tried another page –</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Even Nanny ain't this bad at numbers,' she said. 'To be this bad at numbers you've got to be good. Hah! No wonder this place never makes any money. You might as well try to fill a sieve.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes darted into the room. 'There's someone coming!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny got up and blew out the lamp. 'You get behind the curtains,' she commanded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What're <em class="calibre8">you</em> going to do?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh... I'll just have to make myself inconspicu­ous...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes hurried across to the big window and turned to look at Granny, who was standing by the fireplace.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old witch faded. She didn't disappear. She merely slid into the background.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">An arm gradually became part of the mantelpiece. A fold of her dress was a piece of shadow. An elbow became the top of the chair behind her. Her face became one with a vase of faded flowers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She was still there, like the old woman in the puzzle picture they sometimes printed in the Almanack, where you could see the old woman <em class="calibre8">or</em> the young girl but not both at once, because one was made of the shadows of the other. Granny Weatherwax was standing by the fireplace, but you could see her only if you knew she was there.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes blinked. And there were just the shadows, the chair and the fire.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door opened. She ducked behind the curtains, feeling as conspicuous as a strawberry in a stew, certain that the sound of her heart would give her away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The door shut, carefully, with barely a click. Footsteps crossed the floor. A wooden scraping noise might have been a chair being moved slightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A scratch and a hiss were the sound of a match, striking. A clink was the glass of the lamp, being lifted...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">All noise ceased.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes crouched, every muscle suddenly scream­ing with the strain. The lamp hadn't been lit–she'd have seen the light around the curtain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone out there was making no noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone out there was suddenly suspicious.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A floorboard squeaked verrrry slowwwly, as someone shifted their weight.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She felt as if she was going to scream, or burst with the effort of silence. The handle of the window behind her, a mere point of pressure a moment ago, was trying seriously to become part of her life. Her mouth was so dry that she knew it'd creak like a hinge if she dared to swallow.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It couldn't be anyone who had a right to be here. People who had a right to be in places walked around noisily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The handle was getting really <em class="calibre8">personal.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Try to think of something else...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The curtain moved. Someone was standing on the other side of it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">If her throat weren't so arid she might be able to scream.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She could <em class="calibre8">feel </em>the presence through the cloth. Any moment now, someone was going to twitch the curtain aside.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She leapt, or as close to a leap as was feasible–it was a kind of vertical lumber, billowing the curtain aside, colliding with a slim body behind it, and ending on the floor in a tangle of limbs and ripping velvet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gulped air, and pressed down on the squirming bundle below her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'll scream!' she said. 'And if I do your eardrums will come down your nose!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The writhing stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Perdifa?' 
    </em>
    said a muffled voice.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Above her, the curtain‑rail sagged at one end and the brass rings, one at a time, spun towards the floor.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny went back to the sacks. Each one bulged with round hard shapes that clinked gently under her questing finger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is a lot of money, Walter,' she said carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny lost track of money fairly easily although this didn't mean the subject didn't interest her: it was just that, beyond a certain point, it became dream‑like. All she could be sure of was that the amount in front of her would make <em class="calibre8">anyone's </em>drawers drop.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suppose,' she said, 'that if I was to ask you how it'd got here, you'd say it was the Ghost, yes? Like the roses?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave him a worried look. 'You'll be all right down here, will you?' she said. 'You'll sit quiet? I reckon I need to talk to some people.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's my mum Mrs Ogg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's having a nice sleep, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter seemed satisfied with this.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You'll sit quiet in your... in that room, will you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mrs Ogg!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a good boy.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced at the money‑bags again. Money was trouble.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes sat back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André raised himself on his elbows and pulled the curtain off his face. 'What the hell were you doing there?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was‑ What do you mean, what was <em class="calibre8">I</em> doing there? <em class="calibre8">You</em> were creeping around!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> were hiding behind the curtain!' said André, getting to his feet and fumbling for the matches again. 'Next time you blow out a lamp, remember it'll still be warm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">We</em> were... on important business...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The lamp glowed. André turned. 'We?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes nodded, and looked across at Granny. The witch hadn't moved, although it took a deliberate effort of will to focus on her among the shapes and shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André picked up the lamp and stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The shadows shifted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes strode across the room and waved a hand in the air. There was the chair back, there was the vase, there was... nothing else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But she was there!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A ghost, eh?' said André sarcastically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There is something about the light of a lamp held lower than someone's face. The shadows are wrong. They fall into unfortunate places. Teeth seem more prominent. Agnes came to realize that she was alone in a room in suspicious circumstances with a man whose face suddenly looked a lot more unpleasant than it had before.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I suggest,' he said, 'that you get back to the stage right now, yes? That would be the very best thing you could do. And don't meddle in things that don't concern you. You've done too much as it is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fear hadn't drained out of Agnes, but it had found a space in which to metamorphose into anger.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't have to put up with that! For all I know, <em class="calibre8">you</em> might be the Ghost!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? <em class="calibre8">I</em> was told that Walter Plinge was the Ghost,' said André. 'How many people did you tell? And now it turns out that he's dead...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, he's not!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was out before she could stop it. She'd said it merely to wipe the sneer off his face. This happened. But the expression that replaced it was no improvement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A floorboard creaked.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They both turned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a hat‑stand in the corner, next to a bookcase. There were a few coats and scarves hanging from it. It was surely only the way that the shadows fell that made it look, from this angle, like an old woman. Or...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Damn floors,' said Granny, fading into the foreground. She stepped away from the coats.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As Agnes said, later: it wasn't as though she'd been invisible. She'd simply become part of the scenery until she put herself forward again; she was there, but not <em class="calibre8">there. </em>She didn't stand out at all. She was as unnoticeable as the very best of butlers.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How did you get in?' said André. 'I looked all round the room!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seein' is believin',' said Granny, calmly. 'Of course, the trouble is that believin' is also seein', and there's been too much of that round here lately. Now, I know you ain't the Ghost... so what are you, to be sneaking around in places where you shouldn't be?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I could ask you the same quest–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me? I'm a witch, and I'm <em class="calibre8">pretty good at it.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's, er, from Lancre. Where I come from,' Agnes mumbled, trying to look at her feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? Not the one who wrote the book?' said André. 'I've heard people talking about–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No! I'm much worse than her, understand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She is,' mumbled Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André gave Granny a long look, like a man weighing up his chances. He must have decided that they were bobbing along the ceiling.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... hang around in dark places looking for trouble,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? There's a nasty name for people like that, ' snapped Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said André. 'It's "policeman".'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg climbed out of the cellars, rubbing her chin thoughtfully. Musicians and singers were still milling around, uncertain about what was going to happen next. The Ghost had had the decency to be chased and killed during the interval. In theory that meant there was no reason why there shouldn't be a third act, as soon as Herr Trubelmacher had scoured the nearby pubs and dragged the orchestra back. The show must go on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Yes, she thought, it has to go on. It's like the build‑up to a thunderstorm... no... it's more like making love. Yes. That was a far more Oggish metaphor. You put everything you've got into it, so sooner or later there's a point where it's got to go on, because you can't imagine stopping. The stage manager could dock a couple of dollars from their wages and they'd still go on, and everyone knew it. And they would still go on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She reached a ladder and climbed slowly into the flies.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She hadn't been certain. She needed to be certain now.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fly loft was empty. She walked carefully along the catwalk until she was over the auditorium. The buzz of the audience came through the ceiling beneath her, slightly muffled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Light shone up at the point where the thick cable for the chandelier disappeared into the hole. She stepped out over the creaking trapdoor and peered down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Terrific heat almost frizzled her hair. A few yards below her hundreds of candles were burning.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Dreadful if that lot fell down,' she said quietly. 'I 'spect this place'd go up like a haystack...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She let her gaze travel up and up .the cable to the point, at just about waist‑height, where it was halfcut through. You'd never see it, if you weren't expecting to find it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then her gaze dropped again, and moved across the gloomy, dusty floor until it found something half‑hidden in the dust:</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Behind her, a shadow among the shadows rose to its feet, balanced itself carefully, and started to run.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'I knows about policemen,' said Granny. 'They've got big helmets and big feet and you can see them a mile off. There's a couple lurching around backstage. Anyone can see <em class="calibre8">they're </em>policemen. You don't look like one.' She turned the badge over and over in her hands. 'I ain't happy with the idea of <em class="calibre8">secret </em>policemen,' she said. 'Why do you need secret policemen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Because,' said André, 'sometimes you have secret criminals.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny almost smiled. 'That's a fact,' she said. She peered at the small engraving on the back of the badge. 'Says here "Cable Street Particulars"...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There aren't many of us,' said André. 'We've only just started. Commander Vimes said that, since we can't do anything about the Thieves' Guild and the Assassins' Guild, we'd better look for other crimes. Hidden crimes. That need Watchmen with... different skills. And I can play the piano quite well...,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What kind of skills have that troll and that dwarf got?' said Granny. 'Seems to me the only thing they're really good at is standing around looking obvious and stupi­Hah! Yes...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right. And they didn't even need much training,' said André. 'Commander Vimes says they're the most obvious policemen anyone could think of. Incidentally, Corporal Nobbs has got some papers to prove he's a human being.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Forged?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't think so.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax put her head on one side. 'If your house was on fire, what's the first thing you'd take out of it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, <em class="calibre8">Granny–' </em>Agnes began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hmm. Who set fire to it?' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're a policeman, right enough.' Granny handed him his badge. 'You come to arrest poor Walter?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know he didn't murder Dr Undershaft. I was watching him. He was trying to unblock the privies all afternoon–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've had proof that Walter isn't the Ghost,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was almost sure it was Salzella,' said André. 'I know he creeps off to the cellars sometimes and I'm sure he's stealing money. But the Ghost has been seen when Salzella is perfectly visible. So now I think–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Think? Think?' said Granny. 'Someone thinking around here at last? How'd you recognize the Ghost, Mister Policeman?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well... he's got a mask on...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really? Now say it again, and <em class="calibre8">listen </em>to what you say. Good grief! You can <em class="calibre8">recognize </em>him because he's got a mask on? You recognize him because you don't know who he is? Life isn't neat! Whoever said there's only one Ghost?'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure ran through the shadows of the fly loft, cloak billowing around it. Nanny Ogg was outlined against the light, peering down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She said, without turning her head: 'Hello, Mr Ghost. Come back for your saw, have you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then she darted around behind the cable until she faced the shadow. 'Millions of people knows I'm up here! You wouldn't hurt a little old lady, would you? Oh, dear... me poor old heart!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She keeled over backwards, hitting the floor hard enough to make the cable swing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure hesitated. Then it took a length of thin rope from a pocket and advanced cautiously towards the fallen witch. It knelt down, wound an end of the rope around each hand, and leaned forward. ,</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny's knee came up sharply.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Feels a lot ‑better now, mister,' she said, as he reared backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She scrambled up again and grabbed the saw.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come back to finish it, eh?' she said, waving the implement in the air. 'Wonder how you'd blame <em class="calibre8">that</em> on Walter! Make you happy, would it, the whole place burning down?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure, moving awkwardly, backed away as she advanced. Then it turned, lurched along the wobbling catwalk and disappeared into the gloom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny pounded after him and saw the figure climbing down a ladder. She looked around quickly, grabbed a rope to slide after him, and heard a pulley somewhere above start to clatter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She descended, skirts billowing around her. When she was about halfway down, a bunch of sandbags went upwards past her in a hurry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As she rattled onwards she saw, between her boots, someone struggling with the trapdoor to the cellars.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She landed a few feet away, still holding the rope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny stuck two fingers in her mouth and let out a whistle that could have melted ear‑wax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She let go of the rope.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella glanced up at her as he raised the trapdoor, and then saw the shape dropping out of the roof.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One hundred and eighty pounds of sandbag hit the door, slamming it shut.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Watch out!' said Nanny, cheerfully.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket waited nervously in the wings. Unnecessarily nervously, of course. The Ghost was dead. There couldn't be anything to worry about. People said they'd <em class="calibre8">seen </em>him killed, although they were, Bucket had to admit, a bit hazy on the actual details.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing to worry about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Not a thing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nothing whatsoever in any way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everything was absolutely nothing to worry about in any way.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He ran a finger around the inside of his collar. It hadn't been such a bad life in wholesale cheese. The most you had to worry about was ogle of poor old Reg Plenty's trouser buttons in the Farmhouse Nutty and the time young Weevins minced his thumb in the stirring machine and it was only by luck they happened to be doing strawberry yoghurt at the time–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A figure loomed up beside him. He clutched at a curtain for support and then turned to see, with relief, the majestic and reassuring stomach of Enrico Basilica. The tenor looked magnificent in a huge cockerel costume, complete with giant beak, wattles and comb.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, senor,' Bucket burbled. 'Very impressive, may I say.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Si,' said a muffed voice from somewhere behind the beak, as other members of the company hurried past on to the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'May I say how sorry I am about all that business earlier. I can assure you that it doesn't happen every night, ahahah...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Si?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably just high spirits, ahaha...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The beak turned towards him. Bucket backed away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Si!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...yes... well, I'm glad you're so understanding...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Temperamental, he thought, as the tenor strode on to the stage and the overture to Act Three drifted to its close. They're like that, the real <em class="calibre8">artistes. </em>Nerves stretched like rubber bands, I expect. It's just like waiting for the cheese, really. You can get really edgy waiting to see whether you've got half a ton of best blue‑vein or just a vat full of pig food. It's probably like that when you've got an aria working its way up–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where'd he go? Where'd he go?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? Oh... Mrs Ogg...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The old woman waved a saw in front of his face. It was not, in Mr Bucket's current state of mental tension, a helpful gesture.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He was suddenly surrounded by other figures, equally conducive to multiple exclamation marks.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Perdita? Why aren't you on stage... oh, Lady Esmerelda, I didn't see you there, of course if you want to come backstage you only have to–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's Salzella?' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked around vaguely. 'He was here a few minutes ago... That is,' he said, pulling himself together, <em class="calibre8">'Mr </em>Salzella is probably attending to his duties somewhere which, young man, is more than I can say for–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I demand you stop the show <em class="calibre8">now</em>,' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, you do, do you? And by what authority, may I ask?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's been sawing through the rope!' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André pulled out a badge. 'This!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket looked closely. ' "Ankh‑Morpork Guild of Musicians member z 244"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André glared at him, then at the badge, and started to pat his pockets urgently. 'No! Blast, I know I had the other one a moment ago... Look, you've got to clear the theatre, we've got to search it, and that means–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't stop the show,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I won't stop the show,' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'Cos I reckon he'd like to see the show stopped. The show must go on, eh? Isn't that what you believe? Could he have got out of the building?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I sent Corporal Nobbs to the stage‑door and Sergeant Detritus is in the foyer,' said André. 'When it comes to standing in doorways, they're among the best.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, what's happening?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He could be anywhere!' said Agnes. 'There're hundreds of hiding‑places!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How about these cellars everyone talks about?' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's only one entrance,' said André. 'He's not stupid.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He can't get into the cellars,' said Nanny. 'He ran off? Probably in a cupboard somewhere by now!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, he'll stay where there's crowds,' said Granny. 'That's what I'd do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Could he have got into the audience from here?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny jerked a thumb towards the stage. 'He's somewhere on there. I can <em class="calibre8">feel </em>him.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then we'll wait until he comes off!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Eighty people coming off stage all at once?' said Agnes. 'Don't you know what it's <em class="calibre8">like </em>when the curtain goes down?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And we don't want to stop the show,' Granny mused.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, we don't want to stop the show,' said Bucket, grasping at a familiar idea as it swept by on a tide of incomprehensibility. 'Or give people their money back in any fashion whatsoever. What are we talking about, does anyone know?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The show must go on...' murmured Granny Weatherwax, still staring out of the wings. 'Things have to end right. This is an opera house. They should end... operatically...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg hopped up and down excitedly. 'Oo, I know what you're thinking, Esme!' she squeaked. 'Oo, yes! Can we? Just so's I can say I done it! Eh? Can we? Go on! Let's!'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Lawsy peered closely at his opera notes. He had not, of course, fully understood the events of the first two acts, but knew that this was perfectly OK because one would have to be quite naive to expect good sense as well as good songs. Anyway, it would all be explained in the last act, which was the Masked Ball in the Duke's Palace. It would almost certainly turn out that the woman one of the men had been rather daringly courting would be his own wife, but so cunningly disguised by a very small mask that her husband wouldn't have spotted that she wore the same clothes and had the same hairstyle. Someone's serving man would turn out to be someone else's daughter in disguise; someone would die of something that didn't prevent them from singing about it for several minutes; and the plot would be resolved by some coincidences which, in real life, would be as likely as a cardboard hammer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He didn't know any of this for a fact. He was making a calculated guess.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In the meantime Act Three opened with the traditional ballet, this time apparently a country dance by the Maidens of the Court.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry was aware of muffled laughter around him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was because, if you ran an eye at head‑height along the row of ballerinas as they tripped, arm in arm, on to the stage, there was an apparent gap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was only filled if the gaze went downwards a foot or two, to a small fat ballerina in a huge grin, an overstretched tutu, long white drawers and... boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry stared. They were <em class="calibre8">big</em> boots. They moved back and forth at an astonishing speed. The satin slippers of the other dancers twinkled as they drifted across the floor, but the boots flashed and clattered like a tap dancer afraid of falling into the sink.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The pirouettes were novel, too. While the other dancers whirled like snowflakes, the little fat one spun like a top and moved across the floor like one too, bits of her anatomy trying to achieve local orbit.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Around Henry members of the audience were whispering to one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh yes,' he heard someone declare, 'they tried this in Pseudopolis...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">His mother nudged him. 'This supposed to happen?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... I don't think so...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">' 'S bloody good, though! A good laugh!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the fat ballerina collided with a donkey in evening dress she staggered and grabbed at his mask, which came off...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Herr Trubelmacher, the conductor, froze in horror and astonishment. Around him the orchestra rattled to a standstill, except for the tuba player</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑oom‑BAH‑oom‑BAH‑oom‑BAH–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑who had memorized his score years ago and never took much interest in current affairs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Two figures rose up right in front of Trubelmacher. A hand grabbed his baton.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, sir,' said André, 'but the show must go on, yes?' He handed the stick to the other figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There you are,' he said. 'And <em class="calibre8">don't let them stop.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ook!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Librarian carefully lifted Herr Trubelmacher aside with one hand, licked the baton thoughtfully, and then focused his gaze on the tuba player.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">‑oom‑BAH‑oom‑BAHhhh... oom... om...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The tuba player tapped a trombonist on the shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'hey, Frank, there's a monkey where old troublemaker should be–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'shutupshutupshutup!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Satisfied, the orang‑utan raised his arms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The orchestra looked up. And then looked up a bit more. No conductor in musical history, not even the one who once fried and ate the piccolo‑player's liver on a cymbal for one wrong note too many, not even the one who skewered three troublesome violinists on his baton, not even the one who made really <em class="calibre8">hurtful </em>sarcastic remarks in a loud voice, was ever the focus of such reverential attention.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">On stage, Nanny Ogg took advantage of the hush to pull the head off a frog.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Madam!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry, thought you might be someone else...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The long arms dropped. The orchestra, in one huge muddled chord, slammed back into life.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The dancers, after a moment's confusion during which Nanny Ogg took the opportunity to decapitate a clown and a phoenix, tried to continue.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The chorus watched in bemusement.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine felt a tap on her shoulder, and turned to see Agnes. 'Perdita! Where have you been!?' she hissed. 'It's nearly time for my duet with Enrico!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You've got to help!' hissed Agnes. But down in her soul Perdita said: Enrico, eh? It's Senor Basilica to everyone else...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Help you what!?' said Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Take everyone's masks off!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine's forehead wrinkled beautifully. 'That's not supposed to happen until the end of the opera, is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... it's all been changed!' said Agnes urgently. She turned to a nobleman in a zebra mask and tugged it desperately. The singer underneath glared at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry!' she whispered. 'I thought you were someone else!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're not supposed to take them off until the end!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's been changed!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Has it? No one told me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A short‑necked giraffe next to him leaned sideways. 'What's that?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The big unmasking scene is now, apparently!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No one told <em class="calibre8">me!'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, but when does anyone ever tell us anything? <em class="calibre8">We're </em>only the chorus... here, why is old Troublemaker wearing a monkey mask... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg pirouetted past, cannoned into an elephant in evening dress and beheaded him by the trunk. She whispered: 'We're looking for the Ghost, see?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But... the Ghost is dead, isn't he?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hard things to kill, ghosts,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The whisper spread outwards from that point. There is nothing like a chorus for rumour. People who would not believe a High Priest if he said the sky was blue, and was able to produce signed affidavits to this effect from his white‑haired old mother and three Vestal virgins, would trust just about anything whispered darkly behind their hand by a complete stranger in a pub.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A cockatoo spun around and pulled the mask off a parrot...</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket sobbed. This was worse than the day the buttermilk exploded. This was worse than the flash heatwave that had led a whole warehouseful of Lancre Extra Strong to riot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The opera had turned into a <em class="calibre8">pantomime.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">The audience was <em class="calibre8">laughing.</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">About the only character still with a mask on was Senor Basilica, who was watching the struggling chorus with as much aloof amazement as his own mask could convey ‑and this, amazingly enough, was quite a lot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no...' moaned Bucket. 'We'll never live it down! He'll never come back! It'll be all over the opera circuit and no one will ever want to come here ever again!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ever again wha'?' mumbled a voice behind him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket turned. 'Oh, Senor Basilica,' he said. 'Didn't see you there... I was just thinking, I do hope you don't think this is typical!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Senor Basilica stared through him, swaying slightly from side to side. He was wearing a torn shirt.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Summon...' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm sorry?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Summon... summon hit me onna head,' said the tenor. 'Wanna glassa water pliss...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you're... just about... to... sing... aren't you?' said Bucket. He grabbed the stunned man by the collar to pull him closer, but this simply meant that he dragged himself off the floor, bringing his shoes about level with Basilica's knees. 'Tell me... you're out there... on the stage... please!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Even in his stunned state, Enrico Basilica a.k.a. Henry Slugg recognized what might be called the essential dichotomy of the statement. He stuck to what he knew.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Summon bashed me inna corridor...' he volunteered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's not you out there?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Basilica blinked heavily. "M not me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're going to sing the famous duet in a moment!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Another thought staggered through Basilica's abused skull. "M I?' he said. "S good... 'll look forwa' to that. Ne'er had a chance to hear me befo'...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave a happy little sigh and fell full‑length backwards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket leaned against a pillar for support. Then his brow furrowed and, in the best traditions of the extended double‑take, he stared at the fallen tenor and counted to one on his fingers. Then he turned towards the stage and counted to two.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He could feel a fourth exclamation mark coming on any time now.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The Enrico Basilica on stage turned his mask this way and that. Stage right, Bucket was whispering to a group of stage‑hands. Stage left, André the secret pianist was waiting. A large troll loomed next to him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The fat red singer walked to centre‑stage as the prelude to the duet began. The audience settled down again. Fun and games among the chorus was all very well–it might even be in the plot–but this was what they'd paid for. This was what it was all about.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes stared at him as Christine walked towards him. <em class="calibre8">Now</em> she could see he wasn't right. Oh, he was fat, in a pillow‑up‑your‑shirt sort of way, but he didn't move like Basilica. Basilica moved lightly on his feet, as fat men often do, giving the effect of a barely tethered balloon.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She glanced at Nanny, who was also watching him carefully. She couldn't see Granny Weatherwax anywhere. That probably meant she was really close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The expectancy of the audience dragged at them all. Ears opened like petals. The fourth wall of the stage, the big black sucking darkness outside, was a well of silence begging to be filled up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine was walking towards him quite unconcerned. Christine would walk into a dragon's mouth if it had a sign on it saying 'Totally harmless, I promise you'... at least, if it was printed in large, easy‑to‑understand letters.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">No one seemed to want to <em class="calibre8">do</em> anything.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It <em class="calibre8">was </em>a famous duet. And a beautiful one. Agnes ought to know. She'd been singing it all last night.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine took the false Basilica's hand and, as the opening bars of the duet began, opened her mouth</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stop right there!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes put everything she could into it. The chandelier tinkled.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The orchestra went silent in a skid of wheezes and twangs.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">In a fading of chords and a dying of echoes, the show stopped.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge sat in the candlelit gloom under the stage, his hands resting on his lap. It was not often that Walter Plinge had nothing to do, but, when he did have nothing to do, he did nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He liked it down here. It was familiar. The sounds of the opera filtered through. They were muffled, but that didn't matter. Walter knew all the words, every note of music, every step of every dance. He needed the actual performances only in the same way that a clock needs its tiny little escapement mechanism; it kept him ticking nicely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mrs Plinge had taught him to read using the old programmes. That's how he knew he was part of it all. But he knew that anyway. He'd cut what teeth he had on a helmet with horns on it. The first bed he could remember was the very same trampoline used by Dame Gigli in the infamous Bouncing Gigli incident.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge lived opera. He breathed its songs, painted its scenery, lit its fires, washed its floors and shined its shoes. Opera filled up places in Walter Plinge that might otherwise have been empty.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And now the show had stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But all the energy, all the raw pent‑up emotion that is dammed up behind a show–all the screaming, the fears, the hopes, the desires–flew on, like a body hurled from the wreckage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The terrible momentum smashed into Walter Plinge like a tidal wave hitting a teacup.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It propelled him out of his chair and flung him against the crumbling scenery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slid down and rolled into a twitching heap on the floor, clapping his hands over his ears to shut out the sudden, unnatural silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A shape stepped out of the shadows.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny Weatherwax had never heard of psychiatry and would have had no truck with it even if she had. There are some arts too black even for a witch. She practised headology–practised, in fact, until she was very good at it. And though there may be some superficial similarities between a psychiatrist and a headologist, there is a huge practical difference. A psychiatrist, dealing with a man who fears he is being followed by a large and terrible monster, will endeavour to convince him that monsters don't exist. Granny Weatherwax would simply give him a chair to stand on and a very heavy stick.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stand up, Walter Plinge,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter stood up, staring straight ahead of him. 'It's stopped! It's stopped! It's <em class="calibre8">bad luck </em>to stop the show!' he said hoarsely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Someone better start it again,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You can't stop the show! It's the <em class="calibre8">show</em>!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. Someone better start it again, Walter Plinge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter didn't appear to notice her. He pawed aimlessly through his stack of music and ran his hands through the drifts of old programmes. One hand touched the keyboard of the harmonium and played a few neurotic notes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Wrong to stop. Show must go on...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mr Salzella is trying to stop the show, isn't he, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter's head shot up. He stared straight ahead of him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You haven't seen anything, Walter Plinge!' he said, in a voice so like Salzella's that even Granny raised an eyebrow. 'And if you tell lies, you will be locked up and I'll see to it that there's big trouble for your mother!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny nodded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He found out about the Ghost, didn't he?' she said. 'The Ghost who comes out when he has a mask on... doesn't he, Walter Plinge? And the man thought: I can use that. And when it's time for the Ghost to be caught... well, there is a Ghost that can be caught. And the <em class="calibre8">best </em>thing is that everyone will believe it. They'll feel bad about themselves, maybe, but they'll believe it. Even Walter Plinge won't be certain, 'cos his mind's all tangled up.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny took a deep breath. 'It's tangled, but it <em class="calibre8">ain't </em>twisted.' There was a sigh. 'Well, matters will have to resolve themselves. There's nothing else for it.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She removed her hat and fished around in the point. 'I don't mind tellin' you this, Walter,' she said, 'because you won't understand and you won't remember. There was a wicked ole witch once called Black Aliss. She was an unholy terror. There's never been one worse or more powerful. Until now. Because I could spit in her eye and steal her teeth, see. Because she didn't know Right from Wrong, so she got all twisted up and that was the end of her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The trouble is, you see, that if you <em class="calibre8">do</em> know Right from Wrong you can't choose Wrong. You just can't do it and live. So... if I was a bad witch I could make Mister Salzella's muscles turn against his bones and break them where he stood... if I was bad. I could do things inside his head, change the shape he thinks he is, and he'd be down on what'd been his knees and <em class="calibre8">begging </em>to be turned into a frog... if I was bad. I could leave him with a mind like a scrambled egg, listening to colours and hearing smells... if I was bad. Oh, yes.' There was another sigh, deeper and more heartfelt. 'But I can't do none of that stuff: That wouldn't be Right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She gave a deprecating little chuckle. And if Nanny Ogg had been listening, she would have resolved as follows: that no maddened cackle from Black Aliss of infamous memory, no evil little giggle from some crazed vampyre whose morals were worse than his spelling, no side­splitting guffaw from the most inventive torturer, was quite so unnerving as a happy little chuckle from a Granny Weatherwax about to do what's best.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">From the point of her hat Granny withdrew a paper‑thin mask. It was a simple face–smooth, white, basic. There were semi‑circular holes for the eyes. It was neither happy nor sad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned it over in her hands. Walter seemed to stop breathing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Simple thing, ain't it?' said Granny. 'Looks beautiful, but it's really just a simple bit of stuff, just like any other mask. Wizards could poke at this for a year and still say there was nothing magic about it, eh? Which just shows how much <em class="calibre8">they </em>know, Walter Plinge. '</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She tossed it to him. He caught it hungrily and pulled it over his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then he stood up in one flowing movement, moving like a dancer.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't know what you are when you're behind the mask,' said Granny, 'but "ghost" is just another word for "spirit" and "spirit" is just another word for "soul". Off you go, Walter Plinge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The masked figure did not move.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I meant... off you go, Ghost. The show <em class="calibre8">must </em>go on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mask nodded, and darted away.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny slapped her hands together like the crack of doom.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Right! Let's do some good!' she said, to the universe at large.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone was looking at her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This was a moment in time, a little point between the past and future, when a second could stretch out and out...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes felt the blush begin. It was heading for her face like the revenge of the volcano god. When it got there, she knew, it would be all over for her.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">You'll apologize, Perdita jeered.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up!' shouted Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She strode forward before the echo had had time to come back from the further ends of the auditorium, and wrenched at the red mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The entire chorus came in on cue. This was opera, after all. The show had stopped, but opera con­tinued...</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Salzella!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">He grabbed Agnes, clamping his hand over her mouth. His other hand flew to his belt and drew his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It wasn't a stage prop. The blade hissed through the air as he spun to face the chorus.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh <em class="calibre8">dear </em>oh <em class="calibre8">dear </em>oh <em class="calibre8">dear,' </em>he said. 'How extremely <em class="calibre8">operatic </em>of me. And now, I fear, I shall have to take this poor girl hostage. It's the appropriate thing to do, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He looked around triumphantly. The audience watched in fascinated silence.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't anyone going to say "You won't get away with this"?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You won't get away with this,' said André, from the wings.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You have the place surrounded, I have no doubt?' said Salzella brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, we have the place surrounded.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Christine screamed and fainted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella smiled even more brightly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, now <em class="calibre8">there's </em>someone operatic!' he said. 'But, you see, I <em class="calibre8">am</em> going to get away with it, because I don't think operatically. Myself and this young lady here are going to go down to the cellars where I may, possibly, leave her unharmed. I doubt very much that you have the cellars surrounded. Even I don't know everywhere they go, and believe me my knowledge is really rather extensive­'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He paused. Agnes tried to break free, but his grip tightened around her neck.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'By now,' he said, 'someone should have said: "But <em class="calibre8">why</em>, Salzella?" Honestly, do I have to do <em class="calibre8">everything</em> around here?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket realized he had his mouth open. 'That's what I was <em class="calibre8">going</em> to say!' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah, good. Well, in that case, I should say something like: Because I wanted to. Because I rather like money, you see. But more than that'‑ he took a deep breath–'I really hate opera. I don't want to get needlessly excited about this, but opera, I am afraid, really is dreadful. And I have had <em class="calibre8">enough</em>. So, while I have the stage, let me tell you what a wretched, selfadoring, totally unrealistic, worthless artform it is, what a terrible waste of fine music, what a–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a whirr off on one side of the stage. The skirts of costumes began to flap. Dust flew up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André looked around. Beside him, the wind machine had started up. The handle was turning by itself.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella turned to see what everyone was staring at.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost had dropped lightly on to the stage. His opera cloak billowed around him... operatically.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He bowed slightly, and drew his sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But you're dea–' Salzella began. 'Oh, <em class="calibre8">yes</em>! A ghost of a Ghost! Totally unbelievable and an offence against common sense, in the best operatic tradition! This was really too much to hope for!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He thrust Agnes away, and nodded happily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's what opera does to a man,' he said. 'It rots the brain, you see, and I doubt whether he had too much of that to begin with. It drives people mad. Mad, d'you hear me, mad!! Ahem. They act irrationally. Don't you think I've watched you, over the years? It's like a hothouse for insanity!! D'you hear me? Insanity!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He and the Ghost began to circle one another.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You don't know what it has been like, I assure you, being the only sane man in this madhouse!! You believe <em class="calibre8">anything</em>!! You'd prefer to believe a ghost can be in two places at once than that there might simply be two people!! Even Pounder thought he could blackmail me!! Poking around in places that he shouldn't!! Well, of course, I <em class="calibre8">had</em> to kill him for his own good. This place sends even ratcatchers mad!! And Undershaft... well, why couldn't he have forgotten his glasses like he usually did, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He lashed out with his sword. The Ghost parried.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now I'll fight your Ghost,' he said, moving forward in a flurry of strokes, 'and you'll notice that our Ghost here doesn't actually know how to fence... because he only knows stage‑fencing, you see... where the whole point, of course, is simply to hit the other fellow's sword with a suitably impressive metallic noise... so that you can die very dramatically merely because he's carefully thrust his sword under your armpit...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The Ghost was forced to retreat under the onslaught, until he fell backwards over the unconscious body of Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See?' said Salzella. 'That's what comes of believing in opera!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached down quickly and tugged the mask off Walter Plinge's face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Really, Walter!!! You<em class="calibre8"> are </em>a bad boy!!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Look how everyone's staring!!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The mask crumpled in Salzella's fingers. He let the fragments tumble to the floor. Then he pulled Walter to his feet.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'See, company? <em class="calibre8">This </em>is your luck!!! <em class="calibre8">This </em>is your Ghost!!! Without his mask he's just an idiot who can hardly tie his shoelaces!!! Ahahaha!!!! Ahem. It's all your fault, Walter Plinge...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mr Salzella!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'No
    </em>
    .'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella looked around.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'No one would believe Walter Plinge. Even Walter Plinge gets confused about the things Walter Plinge sees. Even his mother was afraid he might have murdered people. People could accept just about anything of a Walter Plinge.'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a steady tapping noise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The trapdoor opened beside Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">A pointy hat appeared slowly, followed by the rest of Granny Weatherwax, with her arms folded. She glared at Salzella as the floor clicked into place. Her foot stopped tapping on the boards.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, well,' he said. 'Lady Esmerelda, eh?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I'm stoppin' bein' a lady, Mr Salzella.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He glanced up at the pointy hat. 'So you are a witch instead?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'A bad witch, no doubt?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Worse.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But <em class="calibre8">this,' </em>said Salzella, 'is a sword. Everyone knows witches can't magic iron and steel. Get out of my way!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The sword hissed down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny thrust out her hand. There was a blur of flesh and steel and...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">...she held the sword, by the blade.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tell you what, Mr Salzella,' she said, levelly, 'it <em class="calibre8">ought </em>to be Walter Plinge who finishes this, eh? It's him you harmed, apart from the ones you murdered, o' course. You didn't need to do that. But you wore a mask, didn't you? There's a kind of magic in masks. Masks conceal one face, but they reveal another. The one that only comes out in darkness. I bet you could do just what you <em class="calibre8">liked, </em>behind a mask... ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella blinked at her. He pulled on his sword, tugged hard on a sharp blade held in an unprotected hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a groan from several members of the chorus. Granny grinned. Her knuckles whitened as she redoubled her grip.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned her head towards Walter Plinge. 'Put your mask on, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Everyone looked down at the crumpled cardboard on the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Don't have one any more Mistress Weatherwax!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny followed his gaze. 'Oh deary, deary me,' she said. 'Well, I can see we shall have to do something about that. Look at me, Walter.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He did as he was told. Granny's eyes half‑closed. 'You... <em class="calibre8">trust</em> Perdita, don't you, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mistress Weatherwax!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's good, because she's got a new mask for you, Walter Plinge. A magic one. It's just like your old one, d'you see, only you wear it under your skin and you don't have to take it off and no one but you will ever need to know it's there. Got it, Perdita?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But I–' Agnes began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">Got it</em>?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... oh, yes. Here it is. Yes. I've got it in my hand.' She waved an empty hand vaguely.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You're holding it the wrong way up, my girl!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh. Sorry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well? Give it to him, then.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er. Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes advanced on Walter.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Now you take it, Walter,' said Granny, still gripping the sword.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes Mistress Weatherwax...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He reached out towards Agnes. As he did so, she was sure that, just for a moment, there was a faint pressure on her fingertips.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Well? 
    </em>
    Put it on!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter looked uncertain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You do <em class="calibre8">believe </em>there's a mask there, don't you, Walter?' Granny demanded. 'Perdita's sensible and <em class="calibre8">she </em>knows an invisible mask when she sees one.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He nodded, slowly, and raised his hands to his face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">And Agnes was sure that he'd somehow come into focus. Almost certainly nothing had happened that could be measured with any kind of instrument, any more than you could weigh an idea or sell good fortune by the yard. But Walter stood up, smiling faintly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good,' said Granny. She stared at Salzella.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I reckon you two should fight again,' she said. 'But it can't be said I'm unfair. I expect <em class="calibre8">you've </em>got a Ghost mask somewhere? Mrs Ogg saw you waving it, see. And she's not as gormless as she looks–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you,' said a fat ballerina.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑so she thought, how could people still say afterwards that they'd seen the Ghost? 'Cos that's how you recognize the Ghost, by his mask. So there's <em class="calibre8">two</em> masks.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Under her gaze, telling himself that he could resist any time he wanted to, Salzella reached into his jacket and produced his own mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Put it on, then.' She let go of the sword. 'Then who <em class="calibre8">you</em> are can fight who <em class="calibre8">he is.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Down in the pit, the percussionist stared as his sticks rose and began a drum roll.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Are you doing that, Gytha?' said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I thought <em class="calibre8">you</em> were.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's opera, then. The show must go on.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge raised his sword. The masked Salzella glanced from him to Granny, and then lunged.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The swords met.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was, Agnes realized, stage‑fighting. The swords clashed and rattled as the fighters danced back and forth across the stage. Walter wasn't trying to hit Salzella. Every thrust was parried. Every opportunity to strike back, as the director of music grew more angry, was ignored.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This isn't fighting!' Salzella shouted, standing back. 'This is­'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter thrust.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella staggered away, until he cannoned into Nanny Ogg. He lurched sideways. Then he staggered forward, dropped on to one knee, got unsteadily to his feet again, and staggered into the centre of the stage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Whatever happens,' he gasped, wrenching off his mask, 'it can't be worse than a season of opera!!!! I don't mind where I'm going so long as there are no fat men pretending to be thin boys, and no huge long songs which everyone says are so beautiful just because they don't understand what the hell they're actually about!!!! Ah‑ Ah­argh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slumped to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But Walter didn't–' Agnes began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut up,' said Nanny Ogg, out of the corner of her mouth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But he <em class="calibre8">hasn't</em>–' Bucket began.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Incidentally, <em class="calibre8">another</em> thing I can't stand about opera,' said Salzella, rising to his feet and reeling crabwise towards the curtains, 'are the plots. They make no sense!! And no one ever says so!!! And the quality of the acting? It's nonexistent!! Everyone stands around watching the person who's singing. Ye gods, it's going to be a relief to put that behind... ah... argh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He slumped to the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that it?' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shouldn't think so,' said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'As for the people who <em class="calibre8">attend</em> opera,' said Salzella, struggling upright again and staggering sideways, 'I think I just possibly hate them even worse!!! They're so <em class="calibre8">ignorant</em>!!! There's hardly a one of them out there who knows the first thing about music!!! They go on about <em class="calibre8">tunes</em>!!! They spend all day endeavouring to be sensible human beings, and then they walk in here and they leave their intelligence on a nail by the door–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then why didn't you just leave?' snapped Agnes. 'If you'd stolen all this money why didn't you just go away somewhere, if you hated it so much?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella stared at her while swaying back and forth. His mouth opened and shut once or twice, as if he were trying out unfamiliar words.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Leave?' he managed. '<em class="calibre8">Leave</em>? Leave the <em class="calibre8">opera</em>?... Argh argh argh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He hit the floor again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André prodded the fallen director. 'Is he dead yet?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How can he be dead?' said Agnes. 'Good grief, can't anyone see that ?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know what <em class="calibre8">really</em> gets me down,' said Salzella, rising to his knees, 'is the way that in opera everyone takes such a <em class="calibre8">long</em>!!!!!<em class="calibre8">... </em>time!!!!!... to!!!!!... argh... argh... argh...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He keeled over.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The company waited for a while. The audience held its collective breath.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg poked him with a boot. 'Yep, that's about it. Looks like he's gone down for the last curtain call,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But Walter <em class="calibre8">didn't </em>stab him!' said Agnes. 'Why won't anyone listen? Look, the sword isn't even sticking in him! It's just tucked between his body and his arm, for heaven's sake!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Nanny. 'I s'pose, really, it's a shame he dint notice that.' She scratched at her shoulder. 'Here, these ballet dresses really tickle...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But he's dead!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Got a bit overexcited, perhaps,' said Nanny, fidgeting with a strap.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Overexcited?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Frantic. You know these artistic types. Well, you are one, of course.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He's <em class="calibre8">really </em>dead?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Seems to be,' said Granny. 'One of the best operatic deaths ever, I wouldn't mind betting.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's terrible!!' Bucket grabbed the former Salzella by the collar and hauled him upright. 'Where's my money? Come on, out with it, tell me what you've done with my money!!! I don't <em class="calibre8">hear </em>you!!!! He's not saying anything!!!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's on account of being dead,' said Granny. 'Not talkative, the deceased. As a rule.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, you're a witch!!! Can't you do that thing with the cards and the glasses?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes... we could have a poker game,' said Nanny. 'Good idea.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The money is in the cellars,' said Granny. 'Walter'll show you.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter Plinge clicked his heels. 'Certainly,' he said. 'I would be glad to.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket stared. It was Walter Plinge's voice and it was coming out of Walter Plinge's face, but both face and voice were different. Subtly different. The voice had lost the uncertain, frightened edge. The lopsided look had gone from the face.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good grief,' Bucket murmured, and let go of Salzella's coat. There was a thump.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And since you're going to be needing a new director of music,' said Granny, 'you could do worse than look to Walter here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Walter?'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He knows everything there is to know about opera,' said Granny. 'And everything about the Opera House, too.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You should see the music he's written–' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Walter? Musical director?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑stuff you can really hum–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I think you might be surprised,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑there's one with lots of sailors dancin' around singin' about how there's no women–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This <em class="calibre8">is</em> Walter, isn't it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑and then some bloke called Les who's miserable all the time–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, this is Walter,' said Granny. 'The same person.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'‑and there's one, hah, with all cats all leapin' around all singin', that was fun,' Nanny burbled. 'Can't imagine how he thought up that one–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket scratched his chin. He was feeling lightheaded enough as it was.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And he's trustworthy,' said Granny. 'And he's <em class="calibre8">honest. </em>And he knows all about the Opera House, as I said. And... where everything is...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That was enough for Mr Bucket. 'Want to be director of music, Walter?' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thank you, Mr Bucket,' said Walter Plinge. 'I should like that very much. But what about cleaning the privies?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sorry?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I won't have to stop doing them, will I? I've just got them working right.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh? Right. Really?' Mr Bucket's eyes crossed for a moment. 'Well, fine. You can sing while you're doing it, if you like,' he added generously. 'And I won't even cut your pay! I'll... I'll raise it! Six... no, <em class="calibre8">seven </em>shiny dollars!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter rubbed his face thoughtfully. 'Mr Bucket...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Walter?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I think... you paid Mr Salzella forty shiny dollars...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket turned to Granny. 'Is he some kind of monster?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You just listen to the stuff he's been writin',' said Nanny. 'Amazin' songs, not even in foreign. Will you just look at this stuff...'scuse me...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She turned her back on the audience–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">–twingtwangtwong–</div>
   <div class="paragraph">–and twirled round again with a wad of music paper in her hands.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I know good music when I sees it,' she said, handing it to Bucket and pointing excitedly at extracts. 'It's got blobs and curly bits all over it, see?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> have been writing this music?' said Bucket to Walter. 'Which is unaccountably warm?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Indeed, Mr Bucket.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'In <em class="calibre8">my</em> time?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a lovely song here,' said Nanny, ' "Don't cry for me, Genua". It's very sad. That reminds me, I'd better go and see if Mrs Plinge has come rou... has woken up. I may have overdone it a bit on the stumble.' She ambled off, twitching at bits of her costume, and nudged a fascinated ballerina. 'This balleting doesn't half make you sweat, don't you find?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Excuse me, there's something I didn't quite believe,' said André. He took Salzella's sword and tested the blade carefully.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ow!' he shouted.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Sharp, is it?' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!' André sucked his thumb. 'She caught it in her <em class="calibre8">hand.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She's a witch,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it was steel! I thought no one could magic steel! Everyone <em class="calibre8">knows </em>that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wouldn't be too impressed if I was you,' said Agnes sourly. 'It was probably just some kind of trick...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André turned to Granny. 'Your hand isn't even scratched! How did... you...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her stare held him in its sapphire vice for a moment. When he turned away he looked vaguely puzzled, like a man who can't remember where he's just put something down.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I hope he didn't hurt Christine,' he mumbled. 'Why isn't anyone seeing to her?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Probably because she makes sure she screams and faints before anything happens,' said Perdita, through Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André set off across the stage. Agnes trailed after him. A couple of dancers <em class="calibre8">were </em>kneeling down next to Christine.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'd be terrible if anything happened to her,' said André.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh... yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone says she's showing such promise...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter stepped up beside him. 'Yes. We should get her somewhere,' he said. His voice was clipped and precise.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes felt the bottom start to drop out of her world. 'Yes, but... <em class="calibre8">you</em> know it was me doing the singing.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes... yes, of course...' said André, awkwardly. 'But...well... this is opera... you know...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Walter took her hand.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But it was <em class="calibre8">me </em>youtaught!' she said desperately.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then you were <em class="calibre8">very </em>good,' said Walter. 'I suspect she will never be quite that good, even with many months of my tuition. But, Perdita, have you ever heard of the words "star quality"?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it the same as <em class="calibre8">talent?' </em>snapped Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It is rarer.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She stared at him. His face, however it was controlled now, was quite handsome in the glare of the footlights.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She pulled her hand free. 'I liked you better when you were Walter Plinge,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes turned away, and felt Granny Weatherwax's gaze on her. She was sure it was a mocking gaze.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... we ought to get Christine into Mr Bucket's office,' André said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">This seemed to break some sort of spell.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed!!!' said Bucket. 'And we can't leave Mr Salzella corpsing on stage, either. You two, you'd better take him backstage. The rest of you... well, it was nearly over anyway... er... that's it. The... opera is over...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Walter Plinge!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny Ogg entered, supporting Mrs Plinge. Walter's mother fixed him with a beady gaze. 'Have you been a bad boy?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Mr Bucket walked over to her and patted her hand. 'I think you'd better come along to my office, too,' he said. He handed the sheaf of music to André, who opened it at random.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André gave it a glance, and then stared. 'Hey... this is <em class="calibre8">good</em>,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">André looked at another page. 'Good heavens!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What? What?' said Bucket.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've just never... I mean, even I can see... tum‑ti TUM tum‑tum...yes... Mr Bucket, you do know this isn't opera? There's music and... yes... dancing and singing all right, but it's not opera. Not opera at all. A long way from opera.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How far? You don't mean...' Bucket hesitated, savouring the idea, 'you don't mean that it's just possible that you put music <em class="calibre8">in </em>and you get money <em class="calibre8">out?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">André hummed a few bars. 'This could very well be the case, Mr Bucket.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Bucket beamed. He put one arm around André and the other around Walter. 'Good!!!!!' he said. 'This calls for a very lar... for a medium‑sized mm drink .....</div>
   <div class="paragraph">One by one, or in groups, the singers and dancers left the stage. And the witches and Agnes were left alone.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Is that <em class="calibre8">it?' </em>said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not quite yet,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Someone staggered on to the stage. A kindly hand had bandaged Enrico Basilica's head, and presumably another kindly hand had given him the plate of spaghetti he was holding. Mild concussion still seemed to have him in its grip. He blinked at the witches and then spoke like a man who'd lost his hold on immediate events and so was clinging hard to more ancient considerations.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Summon give me some 'ghetti,' he said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's nice,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Hah! 'Ghetti is fine for them as likes it... but not me! Hah! Yes!' He turned and peered muzzily at the darkness of the audience.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You know what I'm goin' to do? You know what I'm goin' to do now? I'm sayin' goodbye to Enrico Basilica! Oh yes! He's chewed his last tentacle! I'm goin' to go right out now and have eight pints of Turbot's Really Odd. Yes! And probably a sausage in a bun! And then I'm goin' down to the music hall to hear Nellie Stamp sing "A Winkles No Use if You Don't Have a Pin"–and if I sing again here it's goin' to be under the proud old name of Henry Slugg, do you hear‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a shriek from somewhere in the audience. 'Henry Slugg?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Er... yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'I thought 
    </em>
    it was you! You've grown a beard and stuffed a haystack down your trousers but, I thought, under that little mask, that's my Henry, that was!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Slugg shaded his eyes from the footlights' glare.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...Angeline?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, no!' said Agnes, wearily. 'This sort of thing <em class="calibre8">does not happen.'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Happens in the theatre all the time,' said Nanny Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It certainly does,' said Granny. 'It's only a mercy he doesn't have a long‑lost twin brother.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was the sound of much scuffling in the audience. Someone was climbing along a row, dragging someone else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mother!' came a voice from the gloom. 'What do you think you are doing?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You just come with me, young Henry!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mother, we can't go up on the stage... !'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Henry Slugg frisbeed the plate into the wings, clambered down from the stage and heaved himself over the edge of the orchestra pit, assisted by a couple of violinists.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They met at the first row of seats. Agnes could just hear their voices.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I<em class="calibre8"> meant </em>to come back. You know that!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I wanted to wait but, what with one thing and another... especially one thing. Come here, young Henry...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Mother, <em class="calibre8">what is </em>happening?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Son... you know I always said your father was Mr Lawsy the eel juggler?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, of–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Please, both of you, come back to my dressingroom! I can see we've got such a lot to talk about.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, yes. A lot...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes watched them go. The audience, who could spot opera even if it wasn't being sung, applauded.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right,' she said. 'And <em class="calibre8">now</em> is it the end?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nearly,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Did you do something to everyone's heads?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No, but I felt like smacking a few,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But no one said "thank you" or anything!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Often the case,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Too busy thinking about the next performance,' said Nanny. 'The show must go on,' she added.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's... that's madness!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's opera. I noticed that even Mr Bucket's caught it, too,' said Nanny. 'And that young André has been rescued from being a policeman, if I'm any judge.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But what about <em class="calibre8">me?'</em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, them as <em class="calibre8">makes </em>the endings don't <em class="calibre8">get </em>them,' said Granny. She brushed an invisible speck of dust off her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect we'd better be gettin' along, Gytha,' she said, turning her back on Agnes. 'Early start tomorrow.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny walked forward, shading her eyes as she stared out into the dark maw of the auditorium.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'The audience haven't gone, you know,' she said. 'They're still sitting out there.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny joined her, and peered into the gloom. 'I can't imagine why,' she said. 'He did <em class="calibre8">say </em>the opera's over...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They turned and looked at Agnes, who was standing in the centre of the stage and glowering at nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Feeling a bit angry?' said Nanny. 'Only to be expected.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Feeling that everything's happened for other people and not for you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Yes!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But,' said Granny Weatherwax, 'look at it like this: what's Christine got to look forward to? She'll just become a singer. Stuck in a little world. Oh, maybe she'll be good enough to get a little fame, but one day the voice'll crack and that's the end of her life. You have got a choice. You can either be on the stage, just a performer, just going through the lines... or you can be outside it, and know how the script works, where the scenery hangs, and where the trapdoors are. Isn't that better?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'No
    </em>
    !'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The infuriating thing about Nanny Ogg and Granny Weatherwax, Agnes thought later, was the way they sometimes acted in tandem, without exchanging a word. Of course, there were plenty of other things–the way they never thought that meddling was meddling if <em class="calibre8">they </em>did it; the way they automatically assumed that everyone else's business was their own; the way they went through life in a straight line; the way, in fact, that they arrived in any situation and immediately started to change it. Compared to that, acting on unspoken agreement was a mere minor annoyance, but it was here and up close.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">They walked towards her, and each laid a hand on her shoulder.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Feeling <em class="calibre8">angry?' </em>said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph"><em class="calibre8">
     'Yes!'
    </em></div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I should let it out then, if I was you,' said Nanny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes shut her eyes, clenched her fists, opened her mouth and screamed.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It started low. Plaster dust drifted down from the ceiling. The prisms on the chandelier chimed gently as they shook.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It rose, passing quickly through the mysterious pitch at fourteen cycles per second where the human spirit begins to feel distinctly uncomfortable about the universe and the place in it of the bowels. Small items around the Opera House vibrated off shelves and smashed on the floor.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The note climbed, rang like a bell, climbed again. In the Pit, all the violin strings snapped, one by one.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">As the tone rose, the crystal prisms shook in the chandelier. In the bar, champagne corks fired a salvo. Ice jingled and shattered in its bucket. A line of wine‑glasses joined in the chorus, blurred around the rims, and then exploded like hazardous thistledown with attitude.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were harmonics and echoes that caused strange effects. In the dressing‑rooms the No. 3 greasepaint melted. Mirrors cracked, filling the ballet school with a million fractured images.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Dust rose, insects fell. In the stones of the Opera House tiny particles of quartz danced briefly...</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then there was silence, broken by the occasional thud and tinkle.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny grinned.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' she said, '<em class="calibre8">now </em>the opera's over.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella opened his eyes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The stage was empty, and dark, and nevertheless brilliantly lit. That is, a huge shadowless light was streaming from some unseen source and yet, apart from Salzella himself, there was nothing for it to illuminate.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Footsteps sounded in the distance. Their owner took some time to arrive, but when he stepped into the liquid air around Salzella he seemed to burst into flame.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He wore red: a red suit with red lace, a red cloak, red shoes with ruby buckles, and a broad‑brimmed red hat with a huge red feather. He even walked with a long red stick, bedecked with red ribbons. But for someone who had taken such meticulous trouble with his costume, he'd been remiss in the matter of his mask. It was a crude one of a skull, such as might be bought in any theatrical shop–Salzella. could even see the string.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where did everyone go?' Salzella demanded. Unpleasant recent memories were beginning to bubble up in his mind. He couldn't quite recall them clearly at the moment, but the taste of them was bad.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure said nothing.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Where's the orchestra? What happened to the audience?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a barely perceptible shrug from the tall red figure.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Salzella began to notice other details. What he had thought was the stage seemed slightly gritty underfoot. The ceiling above him was a long way away, perhaps as far away as anything could be, and was filled with cold, hard points of light.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I asked you a question!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">THREE QUESTIONS, IN FACT.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The words turned up on the inside of Salzella's ears with no suggestion that they had had to travel like normal sound.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You didn't answer me!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">SOME THINGS YOU HAVE TO WORK OUT FOR YOURSELF, AND THIS IS ONE OF THEM, BELIEVE ME.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Who <em class="calibre8">are</em> you? You're not a member of the cast, I know that! Take off that mask!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AS YOU WISH. I DO LIKE TO GET INTO THE SPIRIT OF THE THING.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The figure removed its mask.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And now take off that other mask!' said Salzella, as the frozen fingers of dread rose through him.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Death touched a secret spring on the stick. A blade shot out, so thin that it was transparent, its edge glittering blue as air molecules were sliced into their component atoms.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">AH, 
    he said, raising the scythe. 
    THERE I THINK YOU HAVE ME.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">It was dark in the cellars, but Nanny Ogg had walked alone in the strange caverns under Lancre and through the night‑time forests with Granny Weatherwax. Darkness held no fears for an Ogg.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She struck a match.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Greebo?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">People had been tramping to and fro for hours. The darkness wasn't private any more. It had taken quite a lot of people to carry all the money, for a start. Up until the end of the opera, there <em class="calibre8">had </em>been something mysterious about these cellars. Now they were just... well... damp underground rooms. Something that had lived here had moved on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Her foot rattled a piece of pottery.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She grunted as she went down on one knee. Spilt mud and shards of broken pot littered the floor. Here and there, unrooted and snapped, were some unheeded pieces of dead twig.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Only some kind of fool would have stuck bits of wood in pots of mud far underground and expected anything to happen.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny picked one up and sniffed it tentatively. It smelled of mud. And nothing else.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She'd have liked to have‑known how it had been done. Just professional interest, of course. And she knew she never would, now. Walter was a busy man now, up in the light. And, for something to begin, other things had to end.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We all wears a mask of one sort or another,' she said to the damp air. 'No sense in upsetting things now, eh...'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach didn't leave until seven o'clock in the morning. By Lancre standards that was practically midday. The witches got there early.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I was hoping to shop for a few souvenirs,' said Nanny, stamping her feet on the cobbles to keep warm. 'For the kiddies.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'No time,' said Granny Weatherwax.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not that it would have made any difference on account of me not having any money to buy 'em with,' Nanny went on.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not my fault if you fritter your money away,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I don't recall having a single chance to frit.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Money's only useful for the things it can do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well, yes. I could've done with having some new boots, for a start.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny jiggled up and down a bit, and whistled around her tooth.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nice of Mrs Palm to let us stay there gratis,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'O' course, I helped out playin' the piano and tellin' jokes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An added bonus,' said Granny, nodding.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'An' of course there was all those little nibbles I prepared. With the Special Party Dip.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes indeed,' said Granny, poker‑faced. 'Mrs Palm was saying only this morning that she's thinking of retiring next year.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny looked up and down the street again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I 'spect young Agnes'll be turning up any minute now,' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I really couldn't say,' said Granny haughtily.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not as though there's much for her here, after all.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sniffed. 'That's up to her, I'm sure.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Everyone was very impressed, I reckon, when you caught that sword in your hand...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sighed. 'Hah! Yes, I expect they were. They didn't think clearly, did they? People're just lazy. They never think: maybe she had something in her hand, a bit of metal or something. They don't think for a minute it was just a trick. They don't think there's always a perfectly good explanation if you look for it. They probably think it was some kind of magic.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yeah, but... you <em class="calibre8">didn't </em>have anything in your hand, did you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's not the point. I <em class="calibre8">might </em>have done.' Granny looked up and down the square. 'Besides, you can't magic iron.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'That's very true. Not iron. Now, someone like ole Black Aliss, they could make their skin tougher than steel... but that's just an ole legend, I expect...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'She could do it all right,' said Granny. 'But you can't go round messin' with cause and effect. That's what sent her mad, come the finish. She thought she could put herself outside of things like cause and effect. Well, you can't. You grab a sharp sword by the blade, you get hurt. World'd be a terrible place if people forgot that.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'<em class="calibre8">You</em> weren't hurt.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Not my fault. I didn't have time.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny blew on her hands. 'One good thing, though,' she said. 'It's a blessing the chandelier never came down. I was worried about that soon as I saw it. Looks too dramatic for its own good, I thought. First thing I'd smash, if I was a loony.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Haven't been able to find Greebo since last night.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Good.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'He always turns up, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Unfortunately.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was a clatter as the coach swung around the corner.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It stopped.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Then the coachman tugged on the reins and it did a U­turn and disappeared again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Esme?' said Nanny, after a while.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'There's a man and two horses peering at us around the corner.' She raised her voice. 'Come on, I know you're there! Seven o'clock, this coach is supposed to leave! Did you get the tickets, Esme?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Me?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah,' said Nanny uncertainly. 'So... we haven't got eighty dollars for the tickets, then?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'What've you got stuffed up your elastic?' said Granny as the coach advanced cautiously.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Nothin' that is legal tender for travellin' purposes, I fear.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Then... no, we can't afford tickets.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny sighed. 'Oh, well, I'll just have to use charm.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It's going to be a long walk,' said Granny.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach pulled up. Nanny looked up at the driver, and smiled innocently. 'Good morning, my good sir!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">He gave her a slightly frightened but mainly suspicious look. 'Is it?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We are desirous of travelling to Lancre but unfortunately we find ourselves a bit embarrassed in the knicker department.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You are??</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'But we are witches and could prob'ly pay for our travel by, e.g., curing any embarrassing little ailments you may have.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coachman frowned. 'I ain't carrying you for nothing, old crone. And I haven't got any embarrassing little ailments!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny stepped forward.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'How many would you like?' she said.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">Rain rolled over the plains. It wasn't an impressive Ramtops thunderstorm but a lazy, persistent, low-cloud rain, like a fat fog. It had been following them all day.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The witches had the coach to themselves. Several people had opened the door while it had been waiting to leave, but for some reason had suddenly decided that today's travel plans didn't include a coach ride.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Making good time,' said Nanny, opening the curtains and peering out of the window.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I expect the driver's in a hurry.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, I 'spect he is.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Shut the window, though. It's getting wet in here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Righty‑ho.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny grabbed the strap and then suddenly poked her head out into the rain.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Stop! Stop! Tell the man to stop!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach dewed to a halt in a sheet of mud.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Nanny threw open the door. 'I don't know, trying to walk home, and in this weather too! You'll catch your death!'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Rain and fog rolled in through the open doorway. Then a bedraggled shape pulled itself over the sill and slunk under the seats, leaving small puddles behind it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Tryin' to be independent,' said Nanny. 'Bless 'im.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">The coach got under way again. Granny stared out at the endless darkening fields and the relentless drizzle, and saw another figure toiling along in the mud by the road that would, eventually, reach Lancre. As the coach swept past, it drenched the walker in thin slurry.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, indeed. Being independent's a fine ambition,' she said, drawing the curtains.</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The trees were bare when Granny Weatherwax got back to her cottage.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Twigs and seeds had blown in under the door. Soot had fallen down the chimney. Her home, always somewhat organic, had grown a little closer to its roots in the clay.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There were things to do, so she did them. There were leaves to be swept, and the woodpile to be built up under the eaves. The windsock behind the beehives, tattered by autumn storms, needed to be darned. Hay had to be got in for the goats. Apples had to be stored in the loft. The walls could do with another coat of whitewash.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">But there was something that had to be done first. It'd make the other jobs a bit more difficult, but there was no help for that. You couldn't magic iron. And you couldn't grab a sword without being hurt. If that wasn't true, the world'd be all over the place.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny made herself some tea, and then boiled up the kettle again. She took a handful of herbs out of a box on the dresser, and dropped them in a bowl with the steaming water. She took a length of clean bandage out of a drawer and set it carefully on the table beside the bowl. She threaded an extremely sharp needle and laid needle and thread beside the bandage. She scooped a fingerful of greenish ointment out of a small tin, and smeared it on a square of lint.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">That seemed to be it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She sat down, and rested her arm on the table, palm‑up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Well,' she said, to no one in particular, 'I reckon I've got time now.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">The privy had to be moved. It was a job Granny preferred to do for herself. There was something incredibly satisfying in digging a very deep hole. It was <em class="calibre8">uncomplicated. You </em>knew where you were with a hole in the ground. Dirt didn't get strange ideas, or believe that people were honest because they had a steady gaze and a firm handshake. It just lay there, waiting for you to move it. And, after you'd done it, you could sit there in the lovely warm knowledge that it'd be months before you had to do it again.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">It was while she was at the bottom of the hole that a shadow fell across it.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Afternoon, Perdita,' she said without looking up.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She lifted another shovelful to head‑height and flung it over the edge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Come home for a visit, have you?' she said.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She rammed the shovel into the clay at the bottom of the hole again, winced, and forced it down with her foot.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Thought you were doing very well in the opera,' she went on. "Course, I'm not an expert in these things. Good to see young people seeking their fortune in the big city, though.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She looked up with a bright, friendly smile.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I see you've lost a bit of weight, too.' Innocence hung from her words like loops of toffee.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I've been... taking exercise,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Exercise is a fine thing, certainly,' said Granny, getting back to her digging. 'Though they do say you can have too much of it. When are you going back?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I... haven't decided.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Weeelll, it doesn't pay to be always planning. Don't tie yourself down the whole time, I've always said that. Staying with your ma, are you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes,' said Agnes.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Ah? Only Magrat's old cottage is still empty. You'd be doing everyone a favour if you aired it out a bit. You know... as long as you're here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes said nothing. She couldn't think of anything to say.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Funny ole thing,' said Granny, hacking around a particularly troublesome tree root. 'I wouldn't tell everyone, but I was only thinking the other day, about when I was younger and called myself Endemonidia...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'You<em class="calibre8"> did? </em>When?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny rubbed her forehead with her bandaged hand, leaving a clay‑red smudge.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Oh, for about three, four hours,' she said. 'Some names don't have the stayin' power. Never pick yourself a name you can't scrub the floor in.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She threw her shovel out of the hole. 'Give me a hand up, will you?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes did so. Granny brushed the dirt and leafmould off her apron and tried to stamp the clay off her boots.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Time for a cup of tea, eh?' she said. 'My, you <em class="calibre8">are</em> looking well. It's the fresh air. Too much <em class="calibre8">stuffy </em>air in that Opera House, I thought.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes tried in vain to detect anything in Granny Weatherwax's eyes other than transparent honesty and goodwill.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes. I thought so, too,' she said. 'Er... you've hurt your hand?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'It'll heal. A lot of things do.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">She shouldered her shovel and headed towards the cottage; and then, halfway up the path, turned and looked back.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'This is just me askin', you understand, in a kind neighbourly way, takin' an interest sort of thing, wouldn't be human if I didn't–'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Agnes sighed. 'Yes?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'...you got much to do with your evenin's these days?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">There was just enough rebellion left in Agnes to put a sarcastic edge on her voice. 'Oh? Are you offering to teach me something?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Teach? No,' said Granny. 'Ain't got the patience for teaching. But I might let you learn.'</div>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <br class="calibre7"/>
   <div class="paragraph">'When shall we three meet again?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We haven't met <em class="calibre8">once, </em>yet.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'O' course we have. I've person'ly known you for at least­'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'I mean we <em class="calibre8">Three </em>haven't <em class="calibre8">Met</em>. Youknow... officially...'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right... When shall we three meet?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'We're already here.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'All right. When shall‑?'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Just shut up and get out the marshmallows. Agnes, give Nanny the marshmallows.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Yes, Granny.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'And mind you don't burn mine.'</div>
   <div class="paragraph">Granny sat back. It was a clear night, although clouds mounting towards the hub promised snow soon. A few sparks flew up towards the stars. She looked around proudly.</div>
   <div class="paragraph">'Isn't this <em class="calibre8">nice,' </em>she said.</div>
   
   <h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36381589" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36381591" class="calibre9"></a>THE END <br class="calibre6"/></h1>
   
    <div class="paragraph">The people of Lancre thought that marriage was a very serious step that ought to be done properly, so they practised quite a lot.</div>
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Not that she sat looking out of the window. She'd been watching the fire when she picked up the approach of Jarge Weaver. But that wasn't the <em class="calibre8">point</em>.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Or, at least, dying for a chocolate.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Er. That is to say, they went to bed at the same time as the chickens went to bed, and got up at the same time as the cows got up. Loosely worded sayings can really cause misunderstandings.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Distillation of alcohol was illegal in Lancre. On the other hand, King Verence had long ago given up any idea of stopping a witch doing something she wanted to do, so merely required Nanny Ogg to keep her still somewhere it wasn't obvious. She thoroughly approved of the prohibition, since this gave her an unchallenged market for her own product, known wherever men fell backwards into a ditch as 'suicider'.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Strictly speaking, this means being chased by photographers anxious to get a picture of you with your vest off.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Without regret, since she hadn't found any use for it.</div>
   
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
    <div class="paragraph">Bergholt Stuttley ('Bloody Stupid') Johnson was Ankh‑Morpork's most famous, or rather most notorious, inventor. He was renowned for never letting his number‑blindness, his lack of any skill whatsoever or his complete failure to grasp the essence of a problem stand in the way of his cheerful progress as the first Counter‑Renaissance man. Shortly after building the famous Collapsed Tower of Quirm he turned his attention to the world of music, particularly large organs and mechanical orchestras. Examples of his handiwork still occasionally come to light in sales, auctions and, quite frequently, wreckage.</div>
    <br class="calibre7"/>
    <div class="paragraph">It was central to Nanny Ogg's soul that she never considered <em class="calibre8">herself </em>an old woman, while of course availing herself of every advantage that other people's perceptions of her as such would bring.</div>
    <br class="calibre7"/>
   
  
 

</div>

{% endraw %}

