---
layout: page
title: "Class Dis-Mythed"
prev: None
next: None
book_path: books/asprin-nye-class-dis-mythed_oeb/
---
{% include JB/setup %}
{% raw %}
<div>
<ul class="calibre1"><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36216928">Robert Asprin Jody Lynn Nye</a><ul class="calibre3"><li class="calibre2"></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36217004">Chapter One</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36218671">Chapter Two</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36219172">Chapter Three</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36315885">Chapter Four</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36316342">Chapter Five</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36316635">Chapter Six</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36317313">Chapter Seven</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36317812">Chapter Eight</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36318212">Chapter Nine</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36318846">Chapter Ten</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36319421">Chapter Eleven</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36320443">Chapter Twelve</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36321022">Chapter Thirteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36321598">Chapter Fourteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36321934">Chapter Fifteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36322466">Chapter Sixteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36322882">Chapter Seventeen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36323467">Chapter Eighteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36324527">Chapter Nineteen</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36325523">Chapter Twenty</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36325872">Chapter Twenty-One</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36326162">Chapter Twenty-Two</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36326729">Chapter Twenty-Three</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36327177">Chapter Twenty-Four</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36327720">Chapter Twenty-Five</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36328167">Chapter Twenty-Six</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36328861">Chapter Twenty-Seven</a></li><li class="calibre2"><a href="#TOC_id36329427">Chapter Twenty-Eight</a></li></ul></li></ul><hr class="calibre4"/><h1 id="calibre_toc_1" class="calibre5">
  Robert Asprin Jody Lynn Nye <br class="calibre6"/>
  Class Dis-Mythed <br class="calibre6"/>
</h1>
<div id="TOC_id36217001" class="calibre7"></div>
<br class="calibre7"/>

<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_2" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36217004" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36217006" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter One <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"It's nice to be wanted." J.JAMES</div>
<div class="paragraph">A high female voice ventured timidly, "Are you...Aahz?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked up from a half-empty mug, and nearly spat out my mouthful of beer. Gazing down at me in the close confines of the Haggard Sheep Inn in the Bazaar on Deva were three Pervish females wearing trim, two-piece business suits and clutching briefcases tightly to their chests. My first impulse was to sidle away rapidly, keeping my back against the nearest wall. Next to dragons and Trolls, Pervect women are some of the most dangerous creatures in all the dimensions. I ought to know: I was a Pervect male. Our green, scaly skin covered impressively dense and strong muscles, and inside the skull between our batwing-shaped ears lay devious brains capable of following complex lines of analysis, always geared to our own advantage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The females stared at me, yellow eyes watchful. I had long ago scoped out the exits in every public building within five miles' radius of our headquarters. The back door was fifteen steps behind me behind a curtain. Could I make it before they drew weapons or cast spells?</div>
<div class="paragraph">Guido, a Klahd and former associate with whom I was having a friendly drink, froze, then his hand inched toward the front of his suit coat where he concealed a miniature crossbow. His pinkish-tan skin paled to a buff color. He obviously shared my discomfort, but he wasn't going to let a business partner face a formidable foe alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who wants to know?" I growled at the three.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the Pervish females weren't wearing expressions I associated with assassins or bill collectors. In fact, I realized that their suits were in fashionable pastels with short skirts and</div>
<div class="paragraph">their satchels were color-coordinated to go with the outfits. At first I thought they must be lawyers. Then I realized how young they were. They weren't professionals. They were school girls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As if to confirm my analysis, one of them giggled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You must be Aahz. You look just like your picture."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others tittered. I eyed them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where did you see my picture?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your mother showed it to us," the tallest one replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My mother?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your mother?" Guido asked curiously, leaning closer. I waved him back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you want?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, Aahz...mandius?" the tall one began in a tentative manner.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just Aahz," I interrupted tersely. I was aware that all the patrons within five tables, mostly red-skinned Deveels, the natives of this dimension, had stopped drinking and had leaned as close as they could, the better to hear our exchange.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz, then. We need—This is kind of embarrassing—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then sit down and lower your voices," I advised, beginning to lose patience. I glared at the eavesdroppers, who suddenly remembered they had better things to do.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gestured at the bench on the other side of the table. With uneasy and distasteful glances, as if they had just picked up on their surroundings, the three females slid onto it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah?" I urged them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They dithered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You ask him, Jinetta," said the smallest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, it was Pologne's idea," the tallest said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was not!" the middle one exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My species is not easily embarrassed, so whatever was eating these three had to be pretty bad. From birth we Pervects are raised to know we're a superior race throughout the dimensions. Few types are capable of supporting both magik and technology, and Perv has both. We're stronger, faster and smarter than most other dimension</div>
<div class="paragraph">travelers, or demons for short, so if that self-knowledge makes us a little arrogant, so be it. Of all the beings in the Bazaar, these three Pervects had come to consult one of their own.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was becoming bored with the byplay. Cleared my throat meaningfully. The three stopped their bickering and turned to face me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, Aahz," the tall one began in a perky voice, interlacing her fingers on the table. "I just want you to know from the start that we're not beginners. We're all graduates of MIP."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised an eyebrow. The Magikal Institute of Perv was one of our finest seats of higher learning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nice credentials, but so what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well—" the spokespervect glanced at her companions, "during our education, we took a lot of lab courses and had a couple of remote study opportunities, but really, none of our classes had much of a grounding in the real world."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stands to reason," I mused. "Professional academics, the kind who spend their whole lives in universities, don't have a lot of grounding in the real world. And they figure you're going to get plenty of practical experience once you get out. What's this got to do with me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We need practical education," the most petite of the Pervects said. "Right away."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We're looking for a course of intensive study," the tallest picked up the talking-stick again. "About six weeks. We consulted many, many people as to who the best possible tutor in any dimension would be to give us instruction, someone who would understand the really important issues of survival in the real world of magik. Only one name kept coming up again and again, including here in the Bazaar on Deva..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I preened. I didn't realize that my name was still one to conjure with, so to speak. I eased back in my seat and rolled my mug around between my fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So you three sweet young things want me to teach you the ins and outs of practical magik?" I purred.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" the three chorused. "We need you to help us find the Great Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?" I roared, slamming down my stein.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, you're his partner, aren't you?" the tallest one asked in surprise, flicking the beer stains off her frilly blouse with little offhand magikal repulsion. "That's what the Merchants Association told us. They said that you'd be able to tell us where to find him. They said he's off-dimension, leaving no forwarding address, but as his closest associate, you're sure to know where he went."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"WHAT AM I, CHOPPED LIVER?" I bellowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three regarded me blankly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you're a magician of some skill," the medium-sized one said in placating tones that made my blood pressure blast through the roof.</div>
<div class="paragraph">'Get out of here!" I roared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But my Great Aunt Vergetta said that the Great Skeeve is the one we want," the tall one pleaded. "She said he was the best she ever met, the most effective magician in all the dimensions. Her club agreed with her. Lots of people said they've heard the same."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others nodded earnestly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I made myself calm down. I knew all about Skeeve's run-in with Vergetta and her Pervect Ten, a cabal of Pervish females with interlocking talents. I wasn't surprised Skeeve's reputation had gone so far. I had gone through a lot of blood, sweat, tears and expense to help spread that reputation around the dimensions. I also knew the true extent of his talents behind that reputation. Most of what Skeeve knew he had learned from me or the late magician Garkin, or picked up on the fly during one of our missions. He'd gotten by on native smarts, dumb luck, his own magikal ability and a little help from his friends. I wondered privately whether as a Klahd he could live long enough to really master the Arts Magikal. I wasn't going to subject him to humiliation from these three. Advanced degrees from MIP meant these three had gone</div>
<div class="paragraph">through six years of the toughest professors and the best training in any dimension. Once they found out they were that far ahead of him, they'd tear him apart.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Forget it." I hoisted my mug and drained it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Please!" the shortest one begged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I slammed the empty stein on the table and planted my palms firmly on either side of it. "Can't you take 'no' for an answer? Get out of here before I rip your heads off!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects weren't put off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The medium-sized one leaned forward imploringly. "Please, just tell us where we can find him?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's on sabbatical, and I'm not going to let you interrupt him on some whim. Go enroll in summer school."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is important!" the smallest one said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So are his studies," I snarled. "Forget it, I said."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But we're willing to pay him," the tallest one said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He doesn't need it." I crossed my arms. I had recently gone to a lot of trouble to make sure Skeeve wasn't going to be disturbed for as long as he wanted to stay out of touch, and there was nothing these three fashion plates could say to change my mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We really need his help," the tallest one pleaded. "We have GOT to learn how to survive—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shh!" the other two shushed her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you'd just let us talk to him," the smallest one said, fluttering her green-scaled eyelids. "Then he'd understand why we need his help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry you wasted your time, ladies," I said. I turned my shoulder on them. The interview was over. I signalled for a refill. The bartender's potboy hustled over with a gallon jug, and slopped a quantity into our glasses. I took a casual swig.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, Guido, you try out that new Djinni restaurant yet?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Mob enforcer kept a weather eye on our visitors, but he gritted out a reply. "Too spicy for me. I like to keep the enamel on my teeth."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects drifted off the bench, but they didn't go far. They stood there in the middle of the grimy old pub like a fresh lick of paint on a garbage wagon, a neon sign to pickpockets and muggers that here were three easy victims. Anyone with half an eye could tell they needed some practical advice, but that wasn't my problem. Not really. But I did give a glare to the unsavory elements hanging around in the room to make sure they knew these females weren't to be picked on, even if they were as clueless as newborn kittens. With my luck they'd get creamed in the next bar fight, and I'd have to deal with locals who thought MAYBE Pervects weren't so tough after all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were still moaning. I didn't care. Skeeve's privacy wasn't going to be interrupted for a trio of coddled fashion plates.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are we going to do?" the tallest one wailed. "We won't be prepared! After my parents put me through MIP at a cost of 5,000 gold pieces a semester, I can't find a lousy tutor when it's a life-and-death matter? My parents would have paid anything to get the Great Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I pointedly hadn't been paying close attention to their conversation, but my keen hearing had picked up the words "thousand gold pieces." They had me from there on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You like Djinni food?" Guido asked me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I held up a finger to put his question on hold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"HOW much did MIP cost?" I asked the tall Pervect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Five thousand" the Pervect repeated, turning toward me. Her eyes were bright gold with unshed tears. "A semester. Plus books and equipment. Plus housing and activity tickets and my allowance—more than fifteen thousand a year!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I couldn't see it, but I knew the little green-for-greed light had just gone off over my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sit down, ladies," I purred. "You know, maybe the Great Skeeve could make a little time to help you. If the price was right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Y'know, Aahz, the Boss said he don't want—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Give the ladies a chance, Guido," I interrupted smoothly, cutting off his protest. I didn't want to blow what suddenly had turned into a potential earner. My inner cash register was playing "We're In The Money" with a brass band and a full chorus. These were trust-fund babies or better. They perched on the bench, looking hopeful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, you know," I began, "the Great Skeeve don't work cheap. He is the best, and he expects fees according to his skills. And status."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The great-niece nodded. "Auntie Vergetta said we could expect that. How much would he want?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, the fees have to support our company's efforts," I said innocently, forestalling a squawk from Guido. "To carry on his efforts for the greater good. How about, say, five hundred a week?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three smiled with relief.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Total?" the tallest one asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Each."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No way!" the middle one protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take it or leave!" I roared. "The Great Skeeve doesn't deal with pikers!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, no!" the smallest one said. "How about three hundred each?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned. Now the dealing was going the way I liked it.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_3" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36218671" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36218673" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Two <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"How would teaching get anyone in trouble?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">SOCRATES</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve, stop it!" Bunny ordered me, exasperation plain on her pretty face. "They're too pink!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you sure?" I asked. I stopped adding color and stood back to get a better look at my illusion spell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, I'm sure! They're Klahds, not Imps!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I peered at the image. It issued from Bunny's Perfectly Darling Assistant, or PDA, Bytina, a palm-sized clam-shell of brushed red metal, and had been blown up by me with a touch of magik to cover the surrounding walls, covering the peeling paint and worn woodwork of the old inn. Striking poses in a copse of fake hazel trees were several beings wearing elegant clothing that seemed out of both time and place. From what I could tell by the old-fashioned phrases they were spouting, the male wearing the cross-gartered hose was pledging eternal devotion to the young female with long braids and a dress so tightly bodiced that every breath drew my—attention. An older male in a long houppelande and a twisty turban, the female's father, was against the union. They were Klahds, members of my own race. Honesty forced me to admit they were more fuchsia than the usual Klahdish varegations of pale beige through dark brown. Reluctantly, I mentally unreeled some of the rainbow I'd fed into the picture. Bunny tapped her foot impatiently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about now?" I inquired.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not yet."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about now?" "No."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No."</div><br class="calibre7"/><div class="paragraph">"Now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No! Yes," Bunny amended suddenly. Her shoulders relaxed. "Good. Now, make their heads smaller."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bunny, they look fine!" I argued. "You can see their expressions better this way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She redoubled the exasperation and aimed it straight at me. I turned back to my handiwork and studied it. I had to admit she was right again. The people did have the aspect of lollipops on sticks. At the time I had thought it was advantageous, since the last time I'd been to a play the actors were so far away from me I could never tell who was emoting about what. Once I reduced the proportions to normal it seemed as though a crowd was standing in the room of the old inn with us. I liked the effect. I noticed that the backdrop they were standing in front of looked more unrealistic than ever.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I could improve the scenery," I offered, raising my hands with my thumbs together to make a square. "Make it seem like a real forest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, thanks," Bunny shot back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on," I wheedled. "It'd be a lot better that way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Bunny said. "What IS it about men, that they can't stop fiddling with controls for a single moment? I went for a ride with my uncle on that flying carpet he bought in the Bazaar, and he practically rebraided the fringe on one short little ride!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I retired to the corner, chagrined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, if you don't need my help any more—" I began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny smiled sweetly at me. "I didn't need it to start with. But thank you for enlarging the picture. It does make it easier to watch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She sashayed back to the cushy armchair in the center of the room, now surrounded by the play, already into its second act. She wasn't so hard to watch herself, being a very curvaceous woman the circumference of whose bosom was</div>
<div class="paragraph">approximately two thirds of her height and with red hair that was clipped short to draw attention to the silky skin of her cheeks and neck. Don't misunderstand me—I wasn't interested in Bunny romantically. I had once underestimated her because of her looks. She had used them as camouflage to conceal a surprising intelligence, something that we in M.Y.T.H., Inc. came to appreciate more than her family and former associates in the Mob had. She was one of my best friends, someone whose judgment I trusted absolutely. It didn't hurt that she was fun to look at.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I'd been living back in the old inn for a few months, since leaving the other members of M.Y.T.H., Inc. behind in the headquarters we shared in the Bazaar on Deva. Bunny, our company accountant, had agreed to come along with me to act as my assistant and companion in my self-imposed exile on Klah. I had quit the company to study magik—really study, instead of faking it and learning a technique only when I needed it, sometimes almost too late to save our necks. Since the murder of my first master Garkin by an Imp assassin, my education had been taken over by Aahz. That period of my life consisted of one adventure after another, punctuated by emergencies, alarums, excursions, danger, lectures, financial crises, near forced marriages, and complicated political situations.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had really enjoyed it. Then I had begun to think about my situation. I had been promoted far above my skill level. The time had not yet come when someone called me on it, but I kept waiting for that knock on the door, the one that would herald the coming of a dark, hooded cosmic being who would point a sepulcheral finger at me and proclaim, "You're a phony!" Then Ogres with moving carts would strip everything out of the offices, and I'd be evicted onto the street with my simple belongings wrapped in a handkerchief, while everyone I had ever met laughed at my humble retreat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All right, maybe I didn't fear exposure, shame and dismissal. I'd been pretty straightforward with my friends and associates about my lack of experience and formal training</div>
<div class="paragraph">and understanding of magik, and they had risen to the occasion, stepping in to help me when I couldn't do the job myself. They all had expertise in very different fields, had lived fascinating lives and handled situations I had never dreamed of facing. The person it bothered more than anyone else was me. I stepped away at the optimum time, to give myself a chance to catch up with my position in life, so that when I came back— if I came back-—I'd be a worthy associate to my friends.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had my mission: to turn myself into the wizard that matched the hype. The old inn that Aahz and I had 'inherited' from the madman Istvaan sat at the crossroads of several force lines which I could draw on for nearly limitless power. I had books and scrolls from numerous scholars on approaches to classical magik and access to practitioners in multiple dimensions. While I appreciated Bunny's sacrifice in sharing my exile, I wasn't a fool. I hoped she might become interested in my research, but she had her own life and interests. She was used to a lively existence in the midst of her Mob family (she was Don Bruce's niece) and in M.Y.T.H., Inc. I anticipated that she might become bored having to lie low in what was believed to be a derelict and maybe haunted building in the middle of nowhere in the middle of the woods of Klahd a place that would not attract attention to us. I made sure she knew I would transport her back to Deva or anywhere else whenever she wanted to go. I encouraged her to find entertainment, such as watching the magik pictures that Bytina brought in from the aether. Nor did I rule out visitors, though more for her sake than mine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As if on cue, a knock came at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Quick, Skeeve," Bunny whispered, gesturing at Bytina.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I whisked a hand toward the tiny device. The crowd of declaiming actors vanished, and the room fell silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mostly silent. My pet dragon, Gleep, had heard the rapping, and came hurtling into the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" he exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shh!" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I listened carefully. I could hear youthful-sounding female voices just outside the big main door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Girls," Bunny said. "I'll take care of it." She gestured at herself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See what you think of this illusion," I said. "I saw an illustration in a scroll, and I came up with a really scary variation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Closing my eyes I superimposed the craggy, blue-tinged face of an ancient hag over Bunny's lovely features. She glanced in the mirror as she passed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yuck."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned, satisfied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my pet protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You, too," I whispered. With another moment of concentration, Gleep became a terrible giant bug, a cross between a cockroach and a firefly. My pet gallumphed happily toward the door. I hope he wouldn't scare them too much. I would hate to be responsible for causing nightmares, when all I wanted was my privacy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Then, the door swung open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last thing I had to worry about was that the three girls on the doorstep might be afraid of blue-skinned crones or flying cockroaches. They were Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They regarded Bunny with the disdain that natives of Perv had for most other races, completely unconcerned that live spiders swung from her lank tresses, or that her skin appeared to be peeling before their eyes. Aahz had once said that most Klahds looked alike to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The smallest one pointed a thumb over her shoulder. "They said in that little hovel down the road that the Great Skeeve lives here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who wants to know?" Bunny shrilled in a voice like an elderly woman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We do," the tallest one replied. "This is Freezia and Pologne. I'm Jinetta. He knows my great-aunt, Vergetta. Can we see him?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">My ears perked up at the name of one of my recent acquaintances. I hurried to the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi," I greeted them, holding out a hand to each one. "I'm Skeeve. What can I do for you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne glared at me. "You're Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's me," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My admission seemed to spark the expressions of horror that my illusion spells had not.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This?" Freezia demanded of Jinetta. "This is the Great Skeeve your aunt was so impressed by? This skinny little Klahd? We've been had!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, no, I really am Skeeve," I protested. I glanced past them to see if any of the locals were in sight. "Come on in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I got the door closed behind them just in time to keep the argument from scaring every woodland creature for miles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've got to be kidding!" Freezie shrieked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I told you he was a Klahd!" Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but he's a baby!" Pologne said. "We came all this way, wasting more time which we do NOT have, and what do we get? A kid! Barely out of swaddling clothes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A baby!" Freezia agreed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er," I said, seeing the glee on Bunny's face. "I'm not a baby."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but you don't look like the guru of magik, either," Jinetta explained, sheepishly. "No offense."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"None taken," I replied. I blinked. "Guru of what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Magik," Freezia snapped out. "We need a magik tutor. Now. Today."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"ME???!!!???"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta nodded. "My aunt assured me that you were the slickest operator she'd ever met, someone who can get a job done with no wasted effort. And your business manager gave us a big buildup, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"His what?" Bunny demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Business manager. Aahz. He said you were hot stuff. Just what we were hoping for."</div><br class="calibre7"/><div class="paragraph">"Aahz did?" I asked, now thoroughly puzzled. I knew Aahz's opinion of my skills. He'd told me enough times that if, magik were wind, I couldn't produce an audible poof.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And Aahz told you I was the one you wanted?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here," Jinetta said impatiently. She opened her buttermilk-yellow briefcase and rooted around with it. She came up with two rolls of parchment, one a long screed in ornate and difficult script asking me for a little favor, to help out her niece and her friends, signed by Vergetta. The other was a note scrawled by Aahz on the back of an old shopping list:</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nice girls. They need some polishing up. Thought you could handle it. Aahz.."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," I breathed. I felt honored that my ex-partner had so much faith in me. Bunny had been trying to read the notes over my shoulder. I passed them to her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," I asked the three, clapping my hands together, "what do you need to learn? I, er, could get you started on some basic magik."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologna snorted and threw up her hands. "I told you he was strictly amateur hour!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We don't need basics" Jinetta said. "We're all graduates of MIP. Summa cum laude. We can give you credentials, if you need them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh." I felt very young and inept next to such well-educated Pervects. "Then what exactly do you need from me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'd like to intern with you for a few weeks, get a handle on practical uses of the arts. Your business manager said you'd welcome the chance to mentor a few worthy pupils. We all took degr—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How much?" Bunny interrupted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We all looked at her in surprise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How much did you pay Aahz?" Bunny asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why?" Freezia countered, suddenly suspicious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we need to know if you've signed up for basic instruction, or something more advanced. Let me see your receipts." Bunny held out an imperious hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's the bursar," I added when the three hesitated. I thought about it, and realized her wits were more in tune than mine. We both knew Aahz must have found a financial angle. It wasn't just altruism and belief in my skills that had prompted him to send me three apprentices. He'd dumped me into the drink a few times in the past with his passion for gold. Bunny was almost certainly right. There had to be some serious money involved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects handed her small slips of parchment covered with Aahz's inimitable scrawl. Her face turned white, then red. She passed the slips to me. I gawked at the sum.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh. Well, that's definitely the advanced course," I managed to choke out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny grabbed my arm and dragged me into the next room. "Give me the D-hopper," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What for?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I am going to march into that tent and give him a piece of my mind, since he seems to have lost his! What was he thinking? He knows you can't handle these girls!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I don't know," I mused. "Aahz must think I can do it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the money talking. Look at me, Skeeve." I raised my eyes to hers. "This is just Aahz being greedy. What are you doing here? I mean, here, in this place." "Well—studying."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because?" she prompted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I know, Bunny. I'm not the wizard everyone thinks I am, but Aahz must think I'm ready to tutor university students. Besides, he has put me under an obligation. I have to fulfill it. Those Pervects are counting on me. How bad could it be? We've got plenty of space for them to stay. They can each pick out a room. You'll enjoy the company—-"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're talking yourself into it, aren't you?" Bunny could read a lot of my thoughts, and I always found it unnerving. "Skeeve, snap out of it! Aahz is flattering your ego. You don't know anything about teaching."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have to do it, don't I?" I countered. "Aahz made a contract in my name. I've got to live up to that. Otherwise, what happens to my reputation?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She put her hands on her hips. "Will you put your sense of honor to the side just for the moment? It's not your reputation that's at stake here. Aahz made the deal without ever asking you if you would do it. You could say no. He knows what you're doing here. He'll just have to give those Pervects refunds."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We both stopped for a moment to reflect upon the mental image of Aahz forced to dig into his pockets and give money back. I almost laughed. It would almost be easier for me to learn advanced techniques and teach them to these young Pervects. It would sure take less time. No matter what Bunny said, I was stung by the challenge. I wondered if I could do it. If I couldn't, I'd soon find out. If I found I was in over my head, I could find a way to refund part of their tuition, and possibly find them a substitute teacher.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a gesture of surrender, I returned to my new charges, who were waiting anxiously in the main room. Bunny stayed at my shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Practical magik, huh?" I inquired.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," the girls said. "As soon as possible."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's the hurry?" Bunny wanted to know.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta hesitated. "Well, er, you know, no one wants to hire recent graduates who have no practical experience, right? I don't want to start out frying mimgrou ribs and asking 'do you want oil-soaked tubers with that?' I want a high-paying executive job. I want to get a jump on getting ahead of our fellow students."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too," put in Pologne. Freezia nodded eagerly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too. And the key to big money is a reputation. And the key to that reputation is f—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Experience," Jinetta interrupted. "Unpaid experience. That's why we're looking for internships intstead of, er, entry level positions. So you don't pay us. Just teach us. Quickly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">That sounded reasonable to me. Having been on Perv once, I guessed it would be tough to jump into a good employment situation. Unlike Klah, everything seemed to move fast there.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay," I said. "I'll do it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you!" Pologne cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a deal, then," Jinetta said, sticking out a hand. I hesitated for a moment, remembering Aahz's dislike for shaking hands with apprentices. But I was going to create my own style of teaching. I clasped her scaly fingers. The others grasped my hand in turn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now what?" Freezia asked.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_4" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36219172" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36219174" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Three <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Nice effects." S. SPIELBERG</div>
<div class="paragraph">What, indeed?</div>
<div class="paragraph">With three skeptical Pervish faces gazing at me, my mind went blank.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er," I began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why don't the three of you pick out rooms to stay in?" Bunny said, distracting them from me for the moment. "This was once a coaching inn. You can each have a room of your own. The bathroom is a little on the primitive side, but there's always lots of hot water, and the insulation is good. Just remember to keep the curtains drawn. The locals think the place is haunted."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three Pervects bustled upstairs eagerly, chattering nervously among themselves. I heard doors open and slam, accompanied by gales of wild giggles. Bunny caught my expression, and gave me an amused little smile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you going to do with them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think I'll take them to Massha," I replied. "She ought to have some ideas about how I can teach them, since she was my first and only apprentice. I might even see if she can take them off my hands."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny shook her head doubtfully. "She's got a lot of responsibilities as Court Magician."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All the better if she has three assistants to help her," I said brightly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">By the time they came jogging down again, I had my thoughts in place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everything all right up there?" Bunny asked them. "We haven't really done anything to the place except clean it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't apologize," Freezia said, giving me a heart-stopping grin of brilliantly white four-inch fangs. "After our dormitories</div>
<div class="paragraph">at MIP, these accommodations are almost palatial. They don't give students and apprentices a lot of consideration. I was jammed in the same size room with five other students. I had no idea it was going to be this nice. I can tell we're going to like it here with you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, thanks. Okay," I said, feeling a little guilty. "We're going to take a short trip to visit a friend of mine. It'll be a chance for you to get a good look at this dimension on the way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We've seen a good part of it," Pologne pointed out. "It's a dump. But, whatever you say."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I couldn't disagree with her about that. I'd always been fairly bored by my home dimension. My idea was to take these three into the kingdom of Possiltum, getting a little better idea of what they needed while we were on our journey. Massha had been no mere apprentice who started by sweeping my study and learning to light candles by concentrating on them. She had been an independent magician, working in the dimension of Jahk, who quit to come join me and my associates. I firmly believed I had learned more from her than she could possibly have gotten out of me. She'd specialized in practical magik.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I eyed the three females, mentally measuring the potential reaction of them on not only the local wildlife but my fellow Klahds. "You'll spook the neighbors if you go out like that. Can you ladies do a disguise spell?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">They beamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, sure!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room seemed to fill with flying sparks as the Pervects before me vanished. In their place, a gigantic green dragon curled around the walls of the room, cupping in its coils a sharp-toothed, gold-eyed mermaid with long flowing seaweed-colored locks and a tail full of green and blue scales, and a huge tree with sinisterly glowing green eyes. Gleep hissed. I frowned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you like these?" the dragon asked in Jinetta's voice. "Not showy enough? How about these?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The room swirled wildly again. I found myself facing three Trollish guards with white wherhide trews bound over their</div>
<div class="paragraph">thick purple-furred legs, wearing brass helmets with horns sticking out each side and carrying giant double-bitted axes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" I cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No?" Freezia asked. "Okay. We'll try again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gargoyles, with fearsome smiles and stone tutus. I gawked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How's this?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A volcano, a rainbow and a twinkling blue fairy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And this?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Before I could stop them, the Pervects became unicorns, Deveels, Ogres, towering robots with sparks sputtering from the electrical contacts in their necks, winged Sphinxes, animate stone towers, undulating sea serpents, enormous spiny red hedgehogs and, finally, a trio of pink elephants with floating ostrich plumes bound to their foreheads.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" I shouted, waving my hands. "I mean, can you use a disguise to pass unnoticed?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The elephants lowered their trunks and stared at me out of little wizened eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why?" they asked, sounding hurt. "Aren't these good illusions?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think I'm beginning to see their problem," Bunny observed, with an eyebrow lifted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're terrific illusions," I assured them "but they're inappropriate. We want to get to the palace without anyone following us. We don't want to attract attention."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked at each other as if the notion had never before passed through their minds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, then, let's just go as ourselves," Freezia said. She made a pass with one huge round foot, and the three became scaly green Pervects again. "Just like this. Come on." She made for the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No way," I said firmly, striding ahead of them to block it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why not? We're not ashamed of our bodies," Pologne said, planting her hands on her hips as she confronted me. "Is it our clothes? Are these fashions too extreme for Klah? Two piece suits? A classic is a classic."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's got nothing to do with you or your clothes," I said. "It's you. There's only ever been one Pervect to visit Klah, and he already frightens most Klahds out of their socks. Three would send whole villages running. Can you disguise yourselves as ordinary Klahds, like the people you saw on your way here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three exchanged startled glances. "Of course we can," Jinetta said. "If you insist."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I insist," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They closed their eyes. When they opened them, I beheld the transformation. Before me were a hefty, slack-jawed man carrying a yoke of buckets who was the local village idiot, a sallow-faced man with a long nose I recognized as a tax collector, and a cow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Um, almost," I said. I perched a hip on the edge of the table and gestured to them to sit down. "Let's try again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Using pictures conjured up by Bunny on her PDA, Bytina, I managed to point out images of Klahds who were not too limited, not too unpopular, and a bit more sentient than their first choices. Jinetta, Pologne and Freezia squabbled over who would wear what appearance, jumping from one image to another. They couldn't seem to make up their minds. I held my impatience for a few minutes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look, you be that milkmaid," Freezia said. "She's taller than I am."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey," I tried to interrupt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, I'd rather be that burgher," Pologne said. "You be the milkmaid."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, she's so boring! Look at those wooden clogs!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Make up your minds, and let's go," I put in. They ignored me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That male in the tights showed some fashion," Jinetta said thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I pushed my way in between them and loomed over them. I pointed at each of my 'apprentices' in turn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fine. Jinetta, you get to be the male in tights. Pologne, you're the burgher. Freezia, you get to be the lady in the blue</div>
<div class="paragraph">veil. Chop, chop! Last one into her disguise is a rotten egg!" I clapped my hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Donning my own disguise, that of a cadaverous-faced master magician that served me better than my own fresh-faced boyish appearance, I swept toward the exit. I listened behind me as they fell into line. I expected some grumbling, but there was none. They accepted my authority without question. I didn't know whether to feel confident about that trust, or worried. Bunny held onto Gleep's collar as she waved me a cynical farewell from the doorway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As we strode out onto the narrow, overhung path that served as a road through the thick of the forest, I dropped to the rear of the file and observed my new charges. I expected that there might be some kinks to work out as a cluster of inexperienced Pervects negotiated a new dimension, but I didn't quite anticipate the difficulties they would have in pretending to be something they weren't.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Jinetta, stop swinging your hips like that," I ordered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Like what?" the tallest Pervect inquired, turning in a graceful circle to face me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waved a hand. "And don't swoop like that. The guy whose face you are wearing is going to find himself the object of a lot of jokes if we run into anyone who knows him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne tittered at her classmate's dressing down. I turned on her. "And as for you, never giggle like that again, not until we are inside Massha's house. You're supposed to be an old man. Grumble. Mutter to yourself."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She gawked at me. "What? As if I'm senile, or something?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned. "Yes, as if you're senile or something. You're an elderly man, with a lot of business interests and a son-in-law who's trying to cut him out of deals. Your wife has a bad temper, and your in-laws live with you. Mutter. Complain under your breath. A lot."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne was appalled. "That bites. Let me be a girl, like Freezia."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said, folding my arms imperiously. "You're going to learn something out of this: how to make the best use of a</div>
<div class="paragraph">disguise spell. I bet you never used your talents for anything more complicated than a Halloween costume. Right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well—yes." The medium-sized Pervect had the grace to hang her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The third Pervect, Freezia, minced along, feeling superior because she didn't have to do any acting to get along in her disguise. I was under no illusion (pun unintended) that I wouldn't have to find fault with her some time over the next six weeks, but it was all right with me if she got by this time. I had to admit she had captured the essence of the pretty girl in the blue gown fairly well. Anyone watching us make our way down the road might be a little surprised that the rich and spoiled Lady Melgarie Trumpmeier walking—make that striding—instead of riding her white pony or being conveyed in one of her father's expensive carriages, but the anomaly would give the locals something to talk about.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A party of five horsemen trotted into view. The path was too narrow for our parties to pass abreast. It would be less trouble to let them by, but with "Lady Melgarie" and me, a famous but mysterious magician, we couldn't give ground. The girls glanced back at me. I gestured to them to keep walking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One side!" the lead horseman demanded. A burly, black-bearded man on a gigantic destrier, he towered twice as tall as me, but I held myself upright.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who speaks so to Skeeve the Magnificent?" I replied, in sepulchural tones. Two of the horseman behind the leader cringed slightly at my name.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who dares to confront Lord Peshtigo of Sulameghorn?" the leader countered, drawing the sword that hung on his right hip. He might have heard of me, but he obviously had a reputation to protect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I crossed my arms. "You impede our progress, my lord," I replied solemnly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You block our horses!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Surely mere animals do not take precedence over persons of quality," I admonished him as if he was a small child. "Turn aside, my lord. Give us room."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We do not turn aside for anyone," Lord Peshtigo growled. "Move, or we run you down."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think you want to do that," I said, shaking my head. "The consequences may be more than you anticipate. Save yourselves the trouble."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are in our way! Move, or die!" Peshtigo bellowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You want us to tear his head off?" Freezia asked, showing her teeth. She had completely forgotten about her disguise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The horsemen gasped at her, then all of them drew their swords.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nay." Wearing my most bored expression, I made a pass with one hand. The sword flew out of Lord Peshtigo's hand. I kept the momentum going, so the gleaming blade twirled point over hilt, ending up with its length buried halfway into the mud at the edge of the road. It stuck there, quivering. His lordship's face turned scarlet then white.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When he spoke, his voice had gone up a few registers. "Lord—lord magician, I fear you have the advantage of me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I hope so," I said, allowing my hollowed cheekbones to lift in a wintry smile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I had no idea of your pow—I give you good day, gentlefolk," he said quickly, gesturing his fellows to make way for us. Not daring to demur, they all pulled their steeds off onto the muddy verge, where the horses' hooves promptly sank past their fetlocks. I nodded slightly and tilted my head toward the disguised Pervects to follow me. We made our way single-file past the snorting, white-eyed stallions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As we passed, I threw up a hand. The sword flew up out of the mud and arrowed, point first, for Lord Peshtigo's scabbard. It clashed into place. The other men hastily sheathed their own weapons, just in case I was thinking of doing it for them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good day, gentlemen," I said, in lugubrious tones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"G-good day, Lord Magician!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The moment we were past, they whipped up their horses</div>
<div class="paragraph">and thudded off down the road.</div>
<div class="paragraph">%</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was awesome!" Free2ia exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waited until I was certain that the horsemen had really gone, then I turned to her, holding an air of nonchalance like a shield. "That seemed awesome to you, did it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned wondering eyes at me. "Oh, yes! I mean, you just used a little levitation spell, but wow! It really impressed them!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did it ever occur to you," I began dangerously, "that I could have gotten us past them without using any magik?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Could you?" she asked. "Why didn't you, then?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because," I said, "while I was beginning the negotiation of who held the higher rank they heard a lady of quality snarl and shriek out, You want us to tear his head off?' That changed the equation from a conversational volley to an open threat. Not only that, they're likely to tell that story in the towns up the road. Chances are now very good that Lady Melgarie's father is going to send an armed party out in search of the magician who kidnapped his daughter and threw a madness spell on her. We could have horsemen on our tails in an hour."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, couldn't you deal with them, too?" Pologne asked. "You took care of these."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's because we had the element of surprise," I said, trying to keep my temper. "We won't have that next time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We could take off our disguises," Jinetta said. "That'd surprise them. And we can knock most of them out using magik. We play demon-volleyball. I can hit an opponent at over a hundred paces with a fireball."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sighed. "And that would just increase the size of the mob after us. Look, you want practical instruction? Most Klahds are afraid of magik, power and anyone who doesn't look like them. The force lines around here are fairly weak, except for places like the inn, where several of them cross. You don't want to have to expend any magik on them if you can help it. Store up all the power you can when we get close to good lines of force, and be stingy with it in between. Use your head instead of your magik. Got that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Skeeve," they chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As I stumped down the road, I wondered why they didn't already know about being stingy, with magik or anything else. They were Pervects, after all.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_5" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36315885" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36315887" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Four <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Would you do a favor for an old friend?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">D. CORLEONE</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha flew forward to envelop me in a hug. When Massha hugs you, you know it. If I was to describe her as large, you'd know I was understating the situation by a factor of six or seven. Massha wasn't ashamed of being a well-rounded woman; far from it. She wore gaudy clothes and tons of jewelery which could not help but draw the eye to her shape. She also tended to dye her hair a vivid orange, and favored lipstick to match. Since becoming Lady Magician to the Court of Possiltum, Queen Hemlock presiding, and marrying the ex-general of its army, Massha had actually toned down the shock value, but the package was still an impressive one. She was one of my best and most trusted friends, so it didn't take her long to guess that I had something on my mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, what brings you out of your self-imposed exile, Hot Stuff?" she asked, directing me and my party to cushiony divans that took up most of the spare living space in her and Hugh Badaxe's cosy love nest. The cottage, occupying a corner of the courtyard in the center of the castle environs, actually had fewer square feet than the Court Magician's apartments itself, but with no shared walls to the rest of the castle it had the benefit of privacy. She pointed a finger at a drinks tray on a small table in the corner. The tray lifted itself into the air and settled on the fussily-carved wooden table at the center of the room. The stopper rose from the neck of the handsomely cut crystal bottle, which upended and poured amber liquid into five crystal glasses. Massha only let magik take it so far; she went over to pass the drinks around herself. "Bunny's okay?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I accepted a glass. "She's fine. She wanted me to ask you when you were getting on the Crystal Ball Network."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha waved a hand. "I don't have time for remote entertainment, honey. We've got an invitational tournament coming up next month, and Hemlock wants me to put on a big show. You know," she added, waving a hand. Six miniature golden dragonets flew out of her fingertips carrying banners reading "Massha's Big Show!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I chuckled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But aren't you going to introduce me to your friends?" She fluttered her lashes madly at the handsome young Klahd in gartered tights who struggled to keep his tunic from rising up to his waist in the thick velvet cushions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Save it, toots," Jinetta snapped, momentarily distracted from her hemline. "You're not my type."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha goggled then rose into the air, her face red with embarrassment. "I don't know where you came from, buddy, but around here you call me Lady Magician or ma'am!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's not what you think," I said hastily, leaping up. "Girls, drop the disguises."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Girls?" Massha echoed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a couple of whisks, the illusions faded, leaving three business-suited Pervects glaring at Massha.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No wonder!" Massha said. Instantly, she went to a pair of cupboard doors in the wall and took out three huge steins and a gallon jug of liquor. "Let me offer you something more to your capacity, ladies. Here." She exchanged the delicate little crystal tumblers for more substantial servings of liquor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," Freezia said, raising the big glass to her lips. "Down the hatch!" She gulped her drink and held out the stein for more.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, what are you three doing in Possiltum?" Massha asked as she poured. The three Pervects glanced at one another uneasily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, Massha," I said, "Can I see you alone for a moment?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure!" she said brightly, pulling me into her small kitchen. She beamed at the Pervects. "Excuse us a moment." She waved</div>
<div class="paragraph">a gadget I recognized as her 'cone of silence.' My three students could no longer hear us. They shot me worried glances, so I just smiled reassuringly at them. Massha watched the exchange curiously. "So, what's up, Big Guy? Who are they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're temporary apprentices." I explained how Aahz had sent them to me. "They said they need some specialized training. I, er, brought them here hoping you could help me out. I'm pretty deep in my studies right now. I thought you could give them a couple weeks' instruction in what you're doing here. Practical stuff. They could help you with the festival," I concluded hopefully. "By then I'll have figured out what I can do to help them. I really haven't got a clue how to train them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha shook her head. "Gee, that's too bad. I wish I could help, but I can't. In fact, I was going to visit you in the next couple of days. I have a pupil I wanted you to train."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me?" I squeaked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes!" Massha said, pleased. "And now that you have other students, he'll have the benefit of working with others to help him with his lessons. He's a nice kid. You'll like him. Bee! C'mere, honey!" she shouted out the cottage's back door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Beside the well in the courtyard, a stick with ears rose to its feet. I realized at once it was a skinny young man, maybe my age or a year or two older. He had a friendly freckled face with big ears and a pop-jawed grin. When he saw me, the grin widened but his eyes dropped shyly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve the Magnificent, this is Corporal Bee, late of Her Majesty's army. He mustered out last week and came to see me," Massha explained. "He wants to study magik." The young man hesitated. I put out my hand and he shook it with a powerful grip that his slender frame belied. "All he needs to know is how to get along in the big bad world. The army's been good for Bee. He's had orienteering skills and survival skills hammered into him, and he has spatial relationships down pat, but he's not great at self-direction and personal organization. He'd get taken advantage of in a sophisticated scuffle."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So could I," I muttered. But I got the point. I could help with that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Glad to meet you, sir," Bee stammered. "I heard a lot about you. Sergeant Swatter, I mean, Guido told me—you don't look the way he described you—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh." I laughed. "Is this more like it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I dropped my disguise spell. The boy let out a whistle of relief.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir! I mean, you were okay the other way, sir! I mean—" His face flushed scarlet, leaving the freckles in sharp relief.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's okay, honey," Massha said. "He won't bite you, whatever face he's got on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't say the same about my apprentices, though," I said thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've got other apprentices?" Bee asked enthusiastically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, I mean, yes, wait a minute," I burst out. "Let's start over, from the beginning. How do you know Guido? I assume we're talking about the same Guido?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I guess so, sir," Bee replied. "The one I know's a very big man. Talked very tough. Knows everything about how to handle a crossbow, and about everything else, too. Swatter and his cousin Nunzio were great guys. We went through basic training together. He ended up as our sergeant."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That sounds like our Guido," I said. "So, why do you want to study with me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha shoved him forward like a mother urging her little boy into the middle of the stage to make his speech on School Prize Day. Bee dithered a moment. I'd been there, done that, and bought the commemorative tunic, so I had a lot of sympathy for a youngster trying to ask for a favor. He seemed impressed to be in the presence of the Great Skeeve, no matter how embarrassed I felt about that, and nervous to have the Court Magician of Possiltum as a sponsor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, honey, tell him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I was an apprentice magician at home, before I enlisted," Bee said. "Sergeant Guido promised me that, when I got out,</div>
<div class="paragraph">he promised me he'd make sure Skeeve the Great would help me get trained up as a proper magician. Then I can go home and set up a practice in my town, sir. I don't need to be a great wizard, just good enough to help the folks out. Swatter was a great guy, sir, and he had a lot of respect for you. When I got out, I went to my CO to see if he knew where to find the sergeant, sir. He sent me to General Badaxe, who put me together with the Lady Magician, here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha nodded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee went on earnestly. "If I can study with you, sir, it would be an honor and a privilege. I won't be any trouble. I'm good at organization. I ran the whole supply depot under the sergeant, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I heard about that, corporal," I said. At the time, Guido had been giving me a full debriefing about his stint in the Possiltum army. The name Bee swam up out of a swarm of insect names. The fact that Guido had come to be called Swatter hadn't surprised me then, nor did the respect he had engendered among his troops.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to Massha. "And you're not keeping him as your apprentice because—?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Two reasons, Big Shot," she said. "One, he asked for you. Guido made a promise to him. Two, I don't think I'd put him through the paces the way you would."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But I've got so much studying of my own to do," I almost wailed. "You have a lot more experience of this type than I do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't agree. The fact that you're studying is the reason you're exactly the right person to help him. You learn the most about a subject when you're teaching it. That's what Hugh always says. But I won't leave you in the lurch. Friends don't do that to friends. I will help you with your trio if you take Bee on as a pupil. I'll come down and give a few lessons in gadget magik. I know I'm good at that. What do you say?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee watched us eagerly. I gave in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Deal," I sighed. "All right, Bee, come and meet your new classmates. Massha, I'm going to hold you to your promise."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm good for it, Hot Shot," she said. "You know that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stalked back to the old inn, wrapped in my own thoughts, almost cringing at the notion of what Bunny would say when she saw I had four apprentices in tow instead of three—or none at all. From the look in Jinetta's eye, the Pervects weren't too happy about another student joining what they assumed would be an exclusive teaching arrangement, and neither was I. We were all careful to keep our feelings from Corporal Bee, who was nattering along happily, unaware of the simmering thoughts just below the surface.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny didn't meet me at the door, but Gleep did, galloping into the room and mowing me down so he could slurp my face with his long, pink tongue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" he burbled happily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop that, Gleep," I said, pushing his face away from mine. His breath smelled like a week-dead skunk, and the stink clung almost as well as the odor from the Bazaar's famous Genuine Fake Doggie Doodle with Genuine Odor That Really Sticks to Your Hands. I scrambled to my feet. He surveyed the Pervects, having already tasted them, and leaped on Corporal Bee. To give the youth credit, he didn't blanch as my dragon pinned him against the wall and gave him a good sliming.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Apparently my dragon, whom I considered a very good judge of character, had decided my new pupil was all right with him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just push him down," I advised Bee, who looked nervous, or nauseous. Gleep's breath could kill flies at ten paces. "Come on, Gleep! He's not used to dragons. Bunny?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In here, Skeeve!" she called. "Look who's here!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I followed her voice into the main room, where Bunny was sitting in a cosy tete-a-tete with a being about seventeen times her bulk. The purple fur and odd-sized moon-shaped eyes were unmistakeable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Chumley!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Troll rose awkwardly to his feet and put out a hand. I ignored it and gave him a hearty hug. It had been months since I'd seen him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I say!" he muttered shyly. "Me mean, Crunch glad see you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced back over my shoulder and saw that Bee and the Pervects had followed me into the room. Chumley, like most Trolls from the dimension of Trollia, tended to conceal his intelligence, lest the whole package overwhelm denizens of more insecure dimensions. He supplied hired muscle on a freelance basis under the nom de guerre of Big Crunch. Crunch, unlike Chumley, who was extremely well educated and possessed an erudite manner of speaking, expressed himself mainly in monosyllables. Around strangers, he maintained the subterfuge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let me introduce you to my new apprentices," I said. "From left to right, that's Jinetta, Pologne, Freezia, and Bee."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny looked startled for a moment then smiled. "See, Chumley, there's no problem. I told you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good!" Chumley exclaimed, clapping his big hands together heartily. "See? Tolk!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">From the inglenook at the side of the big fireplace, an irregular brown-and-white shape unwound itself and trotted to Chumley's side. It rose to its hind feet and regarded me with large, chocolate-colored eyes. Tolk looked rather like a big hound with a slightly flattened face, jowls hanging down on either side of big black nose and long mouth. His paws had thick black nails, but fingers instead of pads. Chumley pointed at me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"New teacher!" he boomed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, wait a minute, Chumley," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He regarded me with a question in his big moonlike eyes. "Four, why not five?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't have a good answer for him. Tolk didn't wait for my approval. He trotted over to the Pervects and panted happily at them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm Tolk!" he yipped. "I'm from Canida! Nice to meet you, eh!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Jinetta," the tallest Pervect said, fending off a slurp from the newcomer's long pink tongue. "Give paw?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, I'm better trained than that," Tolk barked. He grinned, showing teeth halfway as sharp as the Pervects', and shook hands all around. "Where you folks from?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Chumley?" I asked, as the five young people introduced themselves. "Who is he, and what's he doing here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry to descend on you without notice, old chap," Chumley murmured abashedly, keeping his voice down. "No time to explain, what? Tolk was in just such a hurry to find some decent training. I thought of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why? You have a lot more experience than I do." Trolls and their sister Trollops tended to have a lot of magikal talent, much more than Klahds possessed overall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I don't practice much, as you know, preferring to depend upon sheer muscle. I consider it more reliable, what? I tend to leave the hocus-pocus to Little Sister. I wanted Tolk taught by someone who is in the field, so to speak."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I eyed him. "Then why didn't you go to Tananda? She's most definitely in the field, more than I am, lately. In fact, she might even be a better instructor for the Pervects."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I wouldn't say this to anyone but a very close friend," Chumley confided, with a glance over my shoulder at the group, "but Tananda isn't much of a teacher. She is not at all interested in taking on a pupil. I might add that she is engaged upon a job, and does not want to confuse Tolk with moral issues."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see," I said. I did. Tananda, besides being a pretty good magician and a very dear friend, was also occasionally an assassin for hire. It was a facet of her talents I didn't want to know more about, and she had never forced me to examine the matter more closely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley continued, "I must add, Tananda feels that you are a better all around magician than she is, with the potential for greatness."</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was going too far. I scoffed. "She never said that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley favored me with an earnest expression. "I assure you, she did. I also feel that it is true. Tolk could not be in better hands."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Forget it," I said, feeling foolish. "Find another tutor for him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The big purple head wagged slowly from side to side. "I'm afraid I am committed. Tolk has invoked a debt I owe his family. I need to forward his education, and swiftly. He has a good deal of untrained talent, and it would be worthwhile to guide him forward."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "You can do it, Chumley. I can't. No."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley fixed his big, irregular eyes full of hope on me. "Skeeve, have I ever asked anything of you before?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The question stopped me cold. I gave it my best shot, searching back through my memory. Chumley had always been there for me and the rest of the M.Y.T.H., Inc. crew, but had never put us to the test on his own behalf.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, you haven't," I said. "Not a thing that I can recall. On balance, we owe you. I owe you plenty."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I wouldn't put it that way," Chumley said modestly. "I know I'm imposing, and I would be terribly grateful to have the matter taken care of. It's temporary, old chap. Five or six weeks, what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I sighed, hearing an echo in my head of my capitulation to Massha. "He's in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley slapped me on the back. The blow nearly flattened me. "Thank you, old shirt."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Would you consider an application from someone to whom you don't owe a favor?"</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_6" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36316342" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36316344" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Five <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"This is getting out of control."</div>
<div class="paragraph">NOAH</div>
<div class="paragraph">The familiar high-pitched voice behind me practically shot me into the air. I think I turned all the way around before I landed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Markie!" I exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was. My one-time ward and would-be character assassin stood a couple of paces away. She still looked as cute and helpless as ever, with her adorable big blue eyes, her mop of golden hair, her tiny frame, all concealing a mind that could strike like a cobra's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Get out of here!" Bunny stormed. My assistant pointed to the door with a magenta fingernail. I recalled that she had borne the brunt of a good deal of Markie's Macchiavellian machinations. Markie didn't, as she once would have, let her pink rosebud of a lower lip tremble fetchingly. Instead, the genuine pathos on her face surprised me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Please hear me out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute, Bunny," I said. "What are you doing here, Markie?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"As I said, Skeeve," she said ruefully, "I've come to ask a favor."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Forget it. Skeeve doesn't do favors for people like you," Bunny said, her eyes flashing. "He did you the only favor you deserve in not blowing your cover."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects, Bee and Tolk stared at the tiny child before them, but I wasn't about to enlighten them as to Markie's actions and subsequent unmasking.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought you'd feel that way," Markie said, nodding in resignation. "I'm so sorry about my behavior when we last met, but it was a job I'd been hired for. You don't like what I do, but it's my profession, like being a Mob moll."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny's face turned purple, and she started toward Markie with her nails out. I leaped to grab Bunny around the upper arms and hold her back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was a low blow, Markie," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie looked genuinely distressed. "I didn't mean it as one, Skeeve. I apologize again, Bunny. It's just a statement of fact, isn't it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not any more." I thought it best to intervene before Bunny took matters into her own claws—I mean, hands. Any moment my assistant could break loose from my grip. She worked out daily with weights, and was probably stronger than I was. "This is about you, not her. Why have you come?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's not for me," Markie said, beckoning over her shoulder. "Come in here, Melvine."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A boy wandered into the room and favored us with a four-toothed grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This big lug is my nephew, Melvine." Markie shoved him forward. He stood about one and a half times her size, but with his soft features, round tummy and nearly hairless head he looked like a big baby. For the first time I could really tell that Markie had to be much older than the five or six Klahdish years she looked. "You can see what he did to himself, and now he can't undo it. No Cupy ought to be that big. Even I am above average height for a doll in our dimension."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's not my fault," Melvine grumbled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes?" his aunt asked, curling her tiny fists on her hips. "Whose fault, then? Name me another guy anywhere in Cupid who is anywhere close to your height. Name one. I'm waiting." Melvine remained silent. Markie appealed to me again. "You see? He needs help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why me?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The corner of Markie's mouth quirked up in a tiny grin. "It's your own fault, really. You taught me about good character and honest evaluation. While I was here I saw how your reputation came to be based on those traits. My big fool of a nephew doesn't know how to do anything small. He has no</div>
<div class="paragraph">control. As you could probably figure, that makes him even more unpopular than an Elemental School graduate usually is. Melvine has been through about eight tutors, and he's intimidated most of them into approving of everything he does just to keep from having to deal with the aftermath. He's too bright and too powerful for his own good. I know he's screwing up." My other apprentices gawked to hear such words falling from the childish lips. "You kept one of the tightest ships running I have ever seen. Your friends were loyal to you no matter what happened. I admired your integrity. You told people the truth even when it hurt you, but you never tried to hurt anyone's feelings deliberately. My problem comes from my profession: sometimes I don't know when to stop. Melvine needs someone with your fundamental honesty, not to praise him or to clobber him too much. He only needs a steady hand for a few weeks. He ought to get a handle by then."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right," the pupil said, turning big blue eyes just like his aunt's up to mine. "After that, I'm on my own, I swear."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I could feel Bunny's eyes burning a message into my brain—over her dead body would she let any relative of Markie's share the roof over her head—but the foolish, ashamed grin on the boy's face touched me. I'd been there myself. If it hadn't been for Aahz and Chumley, and even Bunny, I'd probably have gotten myself into some really stupid situations with no way out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This has nothing to do with our common history," I told Markie. Her eyes shone, and she practically climbed up me to hug me and give me a hearty peck on the cheek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are one in a million," she said happily. She caught Bunny's fierce expression and jumped down from my chest. "All right. I'm out of here. Melvine can make his own way home at the end of the session. Can he stay here, or does he need to commute from Cupid?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, there's plenty of room," I assured her absently. Bunny paused for a moment then nodded her head in resignation. "But this doesn't come free."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I figured," Markie said, nodding knowingly. "I've got plenty. How much would you like?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not money," I said. "I don't need your money, and I don't want to take it, knowing how you earned it. No offense."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"None taken," Markie sighed. "That's why I'm here. So, what do you want?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gestured at the other students. "I want you to come back as a guest lecturer one week. You, too, Chumley."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not good," Chumley said, pulling his big shaggy brow down towards his eyes. "Crunch better fighter than teacher."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised an eyebrow. "I'm sure you'll think of something to challenge them. They want practical instruction. Isn't that right, ladies?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Jinetta said cautiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good!" I clapped my palms together and rubbed them. "Then it's settled."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks again, Skeeve," Markie said, turning large, blond-fringed eyes up to me. "I owe you. I owe you, too, Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I will collect," Bunny assured her. "My Family never forgets a favor."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I expect it," Markie said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She waved a hand, and the BAMF of displaced air momentarily deafened all of us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Crunch go, too," Chumley announced, looking pointedly at me. "Go home to Trollia. Bye."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't want to be seen doing magik in front of the students. I drew power out of the force lines that crossed above and beneath the inn, and sent the big Troll away with another loud bang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I decided to grab the male bovine by the horns. I drew a breath and turned to my circle of apprentices.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ladies, Tolk and Bee, this is Melvine," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I realized it wasn't the bull I had to worry about, it was the cows. The Pervects looked furious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Was this some sort of scam to jack up the price your business partner was charging, telling us how reclusive you</div>
<div class="paragraph">are?" Free2ia demanded. "It looks like you're taking in foundlings right and left, without asking for a dime!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, just a minute," Tolk began, a little defensively. "Who are you calling a foundling?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You don't like us?" Melvine whined, his lower lip pouted out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You really expect us to associate with remedial students like these?" Pologne asked me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's a dime?" Bee asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My aunt must have been out of her mind," Jinetta said, throwing her hands up in disgust. "You're overcommitting yourself, and we need intensive tutoring. I'm beginning to wonder if you're equal to it. We haven't got much time, and you're making other arrangements—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"HOLD IT!" I bellowed, raising my hands. That was it. I might have to come to terms with my conscience over whether or not it was a good idea to do Markie a favor, but it was MY conscience. "Quiet, all of you. ONE: I'm in charge here. I decide who I will teach. Not you. If you don't want to continue as part of a group, then feel free to go back and ask my pa—partner for a refund. TWO: you weren't ever going to have one-on-one tutoring. There were three of you to start with! THREE: you'll be able to help each other out. I can use your assistance, too. As college graduates you will be handy to have as teaching aides. You probably already did some of that at MIP. I'm guessing that the guys won't have had as extensive a formal education as you. You can help them over the bumps, in exchange for advanced tutoring. They might even have something that they can teach YOU."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Pologne began, dubiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The situation is not negotiable," I said flatly. "I don't plan to go easy on you in my lessons, so maybe you ought to make friends with your classmates. Otherwise, you're all out of here. Get it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects all rocked back on their heels. Melvine stood in the middle of the room, sniveling quietly to himself. Tolk</div>
<div class="paragraph">dropped to all fours and trotted over to stand by him, a friendly and sympathetic look on his long face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee broke the ice. He ambled over and offered a hand to each of the others in turn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve's right," the skinny soldier said. "I just got out of the army, and one of the most important things I learned is that you can't get by just on your own in a tough situation. How about it? Friends?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Temporarily," Freezia said, taking the hand gingerly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good," I said, beaming. "Everybody go choose a room. Keep the curtains closed. Dinner's at sunset. Breakfast's at sunrise, local time, and we start classes first thing after that. Got it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">All six pupils stopped arguing and gawked at me. Behind them, Gleep tipped me one huge, blue-eyed wink.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_7" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36316635" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36316637" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Six <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"'Roughing it' is staying at a hotel that doesn't have</div>
<div class="paragraph">room service." K. CARSON</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">".. .There yet? Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we there yet?" Tolk yelped, over and over.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shut UP!" Freezia snarled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But are we there yet?" the doglike creature asked. He turned his big brown eyes to me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yup," I said. "We're there." I clutched the D-hopper close to my chest so none of them could read the settings, and stuffed it into my belt pouch.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The students looked around curiously. The landscape was nothing to write home about. I had always thought of Klah as the bleakest place in the universe, but since I'd started magik lessons, first with Garkin, then with Aahz, I'd come to realize I had been born in a fairly decent place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not like this.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We stood high on a hilltop overlooking a landscape consisting mainly of stone and clay. The hot wind whipped around us, flicking dust into our eyes and nostrils. Scrubby plants hugged the hillside in between rivers of pebbles. Clusters of depressed-looking moss-colored bushes studded with finger-long thorns huddled here and there, not brightening fields of windblown grass. A shallow stream ran downhill, the gurgle of peat-colored water doing nothing to lift the ambience. The sun hovered near the horizon, flinging pale orange rays upward in hopes of raising some cheer on the landscape. It didn't succeed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Welcome to Sear," I announced. "This is where we're going to have our first lesson."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What a dump," Pologne said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wanted to offer some kind of sour rejoinder. I had hardly gotten any sleep the night before, getting everything set up. Her attitude dimmed a little of my excitement over this teaching assignment. My former pupil Massha had always been grateful for the time we had spent together, and I had come to appreciate how much she valued my instruction—when I hadn't ducked out on the responsibility. I took a moment to wonder why I had been so reluctant to teach her, and why I had jumped so readily at this job, with not one, but six students, all of different temperaments.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are we doing here?" Melvine asked in a whiny voice. The big baby was bundled neck to heels in a pale-gray garment that only looked like a romper. The bottoms of the feet had very solid, ridged soles, and I realized there were multiple openings for pockets. He wore a cute little cap on his nearly bald head. "I hate sleeping outside. Can't we go back to the inn?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said. "I wanted to get out in the field. It'll be more of a challenge this way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I'd told my students to get ready for camping outdoors, but gave no other details. The Pervects had dressed for the occasion in form-fitting t-shirt and short sets: Freezia in melon, Pologne in pale green, and Jinetta in what my fashion expert Bunny had defined for me as lemon sorbet.' Their talons, both finger and toe, had been freshly pedicured, and their polish matched their outfits. They also carried color-coordinated backpacks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee, dressed in his Possiltum army uniform, leather skirt and breastplate over a long tunic, puffed up the hill behind us, hauling a huge pack that must have weighed about the same as he did.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's that?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, sir," Bee began, stopping to gulp for breath, "the army always taught us to be prepared. Sgt. Swatter also impressed it on me pretty persuasively. I don't want to end up</div>
<div class="paragraph">without something I'm gonna need to fulfill any task you set me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is intended to test your magikal solutions," Jinetta said with a sneer.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"With respect, ma'am, my magik is a lot more basic than I'd like it to be," Bee replied, his freckled cheeks red from exertion or embarrassment, or both. "I've got to find a physical answer sometimes. I just thought you oughtta know that, since you may end up counting on me one day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," the tallest Pervect said coldly, "but I doubt it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's your first wrong answer of the day," I stated calmly. Jinetta looked shocked. "You're all going to work together. None of you succeed unless all of you do. That's one of the most practical things I ever learned, working with M.Y.T.H., Inc., and I'd be remiss if I didn't pass it along to you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">By contrast, Tolk had his possessions in a paper bag that had a rip down one side. The Pervects regarded him with the same distaste they would have given a stain on their immaculate outfits. Tolk took no notice as he gazed at his surroundings.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where are the trees?" he asked forlornly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I think there are some out there someplace," I said nonchalantly. "We'll find plenty of firewood for our camp tonight. If not, we can always burn dried animal dung."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And smell up my outfit?" Freezia asked. "Not a chance. This is haute couture? "If it's not hot haute" I said, "you might welcome the warmth when the sun goes down. You're here for lessons in practical survival, right? It doesn't get much more basic than Sear. Nothing fancy, but you can find what you need."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But what are we doing here?" Melvine asked in his perpetual whine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Today's lesson is finding simple solutions to problems," I informed them. "You're going on a scavenger hunt. I came here last night and hid a bunch of items on the landscape. By the end of tomorrow I want all of the items assembled at land's</div>
<div class="paragraph">end." I pointed downhill toward the silver sparkle of the distant sea that hugged this continent. "You'll find all the objects on this little shopping list. Oops!" I let go of the parchment, which I had conveniently torn into six pieces before we left Klah. The students leaped after them, jumping in front of one another, nearly racing up one another's backs to get at the swirling squares of paper. I groaned. They weren't thinking. They had all responded out of instinct, not intelligence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold it!" I said. The students all stopped and turned back to stare at me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?" Pologne demanded. "They're going to get lost!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not if you're smart. One of you, get all those pieces. Now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk, quick as a wyvern, leaped into the air and snatched one with his mouth as the wind carried the fragment by. He jumped for another. The first one fluttered out of his mouth. Tolk snapped at the first one and lost the second. He turned this way and that, trying to decide which one to go for. One fluttered close. He leaped for it, but Freezia reached for it at the same time. They collided. Freezia jumped back with a shriek. Tolk landed on his back, and scrambled up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gosh, I'm sorry!" he yelped. "Sorry sorry sorry!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop it!" she said, brushing hairs off her outfit. "I'm all right. Gack, you smell like dog!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's good, right?" Tolk asked, puzzled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The slip of parchment whirled up and away, untouched.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll get 'em," Bee said, dumping his pack. A section of the list had settled for a moment in one of the thornbushes about a dozen yards from us. Bee pelted down the hill, just in time for a wisp of wind to flick it out of reach. He stretched out a hand, and the paper edged toward him. The next gust took it away. I realized he didn't have much of a command of basic magik. That'd have to be handled over the coming weeks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ignoring him, the three Pervects went into a poised huddle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you think, Jinetta?" Pologne asked, her finger to her lips. "Should we try Morton's Retrieval Spell?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is too small a volume of matter for that," Freezia said severely. "The fragments might be crushed out of existence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think Obadiah's Reassembly Spell is the best way," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on! Obadiah's is soo-oooo last week!" Pologne scoffed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you think that's what Professor Maguffin would have suggested?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The name seemed to stop the other two, and they adopted a respectful air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know," Freezia said thoughtfully. "I never heard him say that Obadiah's was for outdoor use."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But he didn't say it wasn't—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne raised her finger. "We could use Petronius's Beard Charm—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'd get a backlash. Think of the third law of Sorcerodynamics!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not the third law, the second!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That wouldn't address the ambient power sources," Freezia chided her friends.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Obadiah's it is, then." Jinetta took out a small alembic and a bright red stick from her backpack. Pologne uncorked a small bottle and poured a few drops of thick liquid into the container. Jinetta stirred it with the stick, and the volume increased to fill the alembic. Scarlet steam started to pour out of the narrow spout. A thread of it shot upward, tilted and began to turn in a circle as if looking around, then headed off toward the nearest shred. A gust of wind caught the red smoke and wound it upward in a spiral. It tried to break loose from the wind, darting almost desperately at the invisible sides of the eddy, until it simply dissipated. The Pervects stared in dismay.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It didn't work!" Pologne said. "What went wrong?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, forget it!" Melvine grumbled impatiently, pushing them all aside. "I'll do it!" He clapped his hands and held them out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The light whirlwind reconstituted and grew from a cute little dust-devil into an inverted cone thirty feet high. The wind</div>
<div class="paragraph">picked up mightily, screaming around us like a hurricane. A gale picked up my hair and started to twist it into a tight spiral on top of my head. Markie had warned me about Melvine's success in Elemental School, and it appeared it had been well earned. I braced myself. The three Pervects clutched one another, hanging onto their bags and each other.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As the cyclone grew, it picked up every loose object on the ground. The closer to the source, the more powerful it was. Yelping, Tolk flew into the air and tumbled helplessly to Melvine's feet. Even Bee and his immense pack were dragged up the hillside, along with loose stones, dust, dry plants and a few small animals. Melvine flattened his hands, and the wind died away. The debris formed a raised ring about three feet high around us. A leg, a foot and an ear were all that showed where Tolk and Bee were half-buried by the dust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Triumphantly, Melvine picked up the pieces of parchment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There!" he said, waving them at me in his pudgy little hand. "That wasn't so hard! What's next, Teach?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was like drowning someone who only wanted a glass of water!" Jinetta snarled. She and the others dusted themselves off resentfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sour grapes," Melvine sneered back. "You don't know how to do anything with style."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But it's exactly what I was going to say," I put in. "Melvine, look around you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk scratched his way out of the pile of dirt and shook himself vigorously. Bee stood up and brushed himself off. Both of them glared at Melvine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy regarded me with a hurt stare. "What about it? Didn't I do what you asked?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And you ignored what I said about keeping it simple. How many lines of force do you see?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He peered around. I knew what he was seeing, or rather not seeing. It was one of the reasons I had chosen Sear as a testing ground. The only other place I'd ever been that was almost as magik-bereft was Blut, but I had had a quick chat</div>
<div class="paragraph">with Vilhelm, the vampire Dispatcher of Nightmares. He had suggested it would frighten the locals too much if I brought my off-dimension students there for a test. Since Blut didn't get many visitors, they might cause a riot. I agreed that it wasn't worth risking a lynching just for academic experimentation. On the other hand, the Sear natives were very friendly. I could feel them watching us now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine stared up at the sky then down at the ground, his pudgy face growing more and more distressed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take a good long look," I said.        At last he gave up. "I don't see any."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tech-no-nothing," Pologne snorted. From her tastefully appointed backpack she produced a palm-sized orb that glowed the same green as her ensemble. "There's only one to speak of. It's over there, a long way, about fifteen miles."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Right," I said. "Good call. I'm sure you've all had plenty of experience in storing magikal energy so you don't have to go looking for a line of force when you want to do magik. Right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, no," Jinetta said at last.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Didn't think so," I said. "It's why your spell didn't work. Why not?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, there have always been plenty of lines of force when we need them! Perv is full of them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's full of something," Melvine said nastily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll do the sarcasm here," I said, glaring down at the Cupy. "That was a pretty comprehensive spell. I'll bet you're mostly tapped out now, too. Where are you going to get more magikal energy?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"From that force line," Melvine said with a sigh as if I was too dumb to live. He stared in the direction of the line Pologne had detected, and concentrated. In a moment, his face contorted. He had discovered something else, I had done the first time I'd visited Sear: something in the natural landscape absorbed magikal energy. Unless you were in line of sight to the lines of force, you couldn't tap into them. "I can hop back to Klah, or Cupid, and stoke up "</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No way," I said, firmly. "Anyone who bounces out for a single moment is off the course for good. You have to play this one out right here according to the rules, and Rule One is 'KISS.' It stands for 'keep it simple, stupid.' If you had just concentrated on the fragments of paper, you could have collected them with an easy attraction spell, or caused them to reconstruct into their original form, which would have been heavy enough to fall to the ground. Since you used up all your stored magik, we're going to have to go to the nearest source to get more. For those of you who aren't used to carrying your own around, it's a good practice to get into. I know that my best teacher," and here I was thinking of Aahz, "told me the smartest thing I could do for myself was to be prepared for an emergency. It's like taking a breath before you jump into a lake. Once you're under water, it's too late to think about air."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Store energy inside ourselves?" Pologne asked. "You don't use a peripheral device?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shrugged. "I hate to rely on anything that can be taken away from me. I'm a rotten swordsman, so anything I wield could end up in the hands of an opponent. I feel the same way about magikal gadgets. That's just my opinion, but you're paying for it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects looked anxious and hugged their backpacks. I grinned. Perv was one of the dimensions that made use of magik and technology almost equally. I'd seen for myself how the mix of available power sources made relying on nonmagikal means almost irresistible. In my view it left the users vulnerable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not fair," Melvine whined. "It's a long way to that line."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then stay here and get through the rest of this test without magik," I said pleasantly. "Anyone else up for a walk?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wow, he sounds so serious!" Freezia whispered as I stumped down the hill at the head of the file.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, Jinetta, it looks like your aunt was right about him!" Pologne added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not bad," Jinetta said. "It doesn't sound as if he adheres to academic methods, but he seems to have a good grasp of how to present his subject matter."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I kept my chin up and tried to look as if I wasn't listening. I was glad I looked impressive, but inside I knew I was faking it. I hoped they wouldn't find that out before I figured out what I was doing. I didn't want to let them or Aahz down. Though I'd hate to admit it, I had taken the idea from one of the views Bunny liked to watch in her PDA, a dramatic contest called "Sink or Swim," in which the green-skinned master of ceremonies made his contestants go through difficult ordeals in order to get basics they would need to complete other tasks. Usually I tried to ignore the entertainments she viewed while I was working on my magikal research. I couldn't get excited over a game I wasn't watching in the flesh. Once in a while, though, I found myself listening to the absurd and often ridiculously dangerous things the announcer had his contestants attempt. The differences were that I was using this challenge to make a point, and that nobody would get hurt if they used even a little sense. In my opinion, the techniques I wanted them to learn were vital whether they became high-powered executives or the local wizards of ten-house hamlets.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rising sun did nothing to add to the beauty of the countryside. What dew had condensed overnight evaporated swiftly. The temperature ascended with the white-hot orb, until Tolk was panting out every breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Water water water water water!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you didn't carry on talking, you wouldn't be getting dried out!" Pologne snarled. The Pervect seemed to have less patience with Tolk than either of her companions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take it easy on him, ma'am," Bee said. "If you offered him a drink, he wouldn't keep sayin' it, would he? Here, fella." He offered the doglike being a bulging water skin. Tolk beamed at him. He squeezed the skin so a spray of water leaped up, and lapped at it with his long, pink tongue. His enthusiastic</div>
<div class="paragraph">method of drinking sprayed us all with drops, which felt good in the increasing heat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks thanks thanks," Tolk said. "That was great!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee slung the skin over his shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey!" he cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The water container seemed to throw itself onto the ground. Bee bent to retrieve it, but it scooted away from his grasp. He hustled after it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, come back here!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I smiled quietly to myself. The fun was beginning.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The lanky soldier opened up his stride to follow the fleeing bag, but it kept just out of his reach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, I've heard of running water, but this is ridiculous!" Melvine chortled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Offer to share!" I shouted after Bee. The young man spun and snapped to attention.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What, sir?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I said—oh, never mind." Behind him, the water skin seemed to melt into the ground. Bee turned around and searched. The skin, and the hole into which it had fallen, had both disappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee turned back to me, his earnest face puzzled. "Where'd it go, sir?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid you were just hit by one of the local hazards, Bee," I said apologetically. "The locals really know how to make merchandise move. You can probably tell that water's pretty scarce here. Your water bottle represented a good deal of wealth to someone who lives on Sear. They prize shade and water above anything else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What locals?" Jinetta asked. "I don't see any signs of habitation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They live beneath the surface," I said, tapping the ground with my foot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They could be dangerous!" Freezia exclaimed. "They could overpower us! They could," she lowered her voice, looking around in fear, "kill us and eat us."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think so," I said reassuringly. "They're only about an inch high."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?" she shrieked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See," Melvine hooted. "You wet your pants for nothing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shut up, you carnival prize!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I marched onward. The students followed me, still sniping at one another. How was I going to get through six weeks of this?</div>
<div class="paragraph">I swatted at the back of my neck. A fly had been circling me for some time, evidently deciding where it would be best to plunge in its stinger. Gingerly I prodded the welt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everybody with sensitive skin might use a little of their magik for pest repellent," I suggested. "This hurts a lot."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can fix it, Skeeve," Tolk said eagerly. He bounded over and touched the sore spot. The pain died away instantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's great, Tolk," I said. "I appreciate it. But don't forget to protect yourself."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He frowned and cocked his head to one side. "Not sure how how how."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Picture a suit made of magikal force that fits your body closely but doesn't cut off your air supply," I said. "Don't use too much power."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think I can do that," Bee admitted. "I never tried anything like that before."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you know how to do?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I only know a few spells," he admitted. "I'm not up there like these ladies," he indicated the Pervects, "who've had the benefit of advanced education."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects turned their noses up at him. Bee looked downtrodden.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we can build on what you have learned," I said encouragingly. "What are they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I can do Dispell," Bee began. A dust-devil spun in our direction. I recognized it as one of the Sear natives. It whisked up Pologne's leg, heading for her color-coordinated backpack.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aaagh!" she cried, batting at her tiny assailant. "Get it off me!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bee, use it now!" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee pointed at the miniature whirlwind. "Dispell!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The gray cone died away, leaving a bright red node about the size of my thumbnail. The little creature dropped off Pologne's leg and promptly dug itself into the sand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ugh!" she said, stomping on the place where the Sear disappeared. "Disgusting!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's very useful," I told Bee. "It's a good defense as well as being able to undo mistakes you make. What's next?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well. Datspell."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine chortled. "Why am I not surprised? And what's that do? Put the spell you just took off back on?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nossir," Bee said, hurt. "Well, it means I can disguise myself pretty good. Like this!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, the skinny frame of the former corporal was replaced by a familiar image. A male Klahd with a big, hulking frame, wide shoulders that tapered down to a surprisingly small waist, big hands that almost concealed the miniature crossbow in his hand. I felt a smile spread slowly on my face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's Guido."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The image vanished, and Bee's narrow earnest face reappeared. "Yessir. Sergeant Swatter, we called him. I really admired him, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop calling me sir," I said. "Just Skeeve. Datspell's pretty good, too. What else can you do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Bee said, "just a few little things. But I practice them all the time. Spoo!" he exclaimed suddenly as we began the descent down a steep hill. He seemed to levitate over a rock in his path.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's pretty good," I said. "You know how to fly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, no, s—I mean, Skeeve. That's just Cantrip. I learned that in the army. It helps a lot when you're on maneuvers over rough ground. A lot of the guys came in with sprained ankles</div>
<div class="paragraph">and broken legs. Cantrip keeps me from falling over. 'Cept I gotta say 'spoo' to invoke it. It's 'oops' spelled backwards."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How hokey!" Freezia exclaimed. Bee looked offended. I didn't blame him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you use mnemonics in your magik?" I asked her innocently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure I do," she said. "But spoof She broke into giggles. "That's so silly!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If it works, then it's not silly. You'll see. Bee's going to teach us how to do it when we're back at the inn."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Learn from a Klahd? Never!" Pologne declared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I let the statement stand, and walked on in silence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">About four paces later, she spoke in a much smaller voice. "Of course, when I say Klahd, I don't mean you, Skeeve."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_8" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36317313" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36317315" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Seven <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"7s it too late to try beads?" G. A. CUSTER</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took almost two hours to walk over the rough dry terrain to where we could draw from the force line. The hike back was worse. The sun had risen higher in the sky, and the glare was blinding. I was hot, and my feet felt like they had been pounded between two large flat rocks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">By the time we were back in my target area everyone was in a bad mood, including me. Everything Melvine said came out as a whine. The three Pervects sniped at one another verbally, but united to belittle the others. Tolk growled if any of us got too close to him. Bee still spoke politely, but clipped his words off sharply.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's hot, and I'm tired," Melvine complained. "Let's go back to Klahd and do this tomorrow. I promise to be more economical. C'mon, Skeeve, what do you say?"    "Nope," I said. "This'll be fun. You'll see."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fun? This dimension is a drag!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, you should go work for my cousin," Tolk sneered. "He's got the sullen-on-a-stick franchise for Lower Rangooza." "Meanie!" Melvine sniveled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Grow up!" Pologne said. "I'm sick of both of you. It's like traveling with my little brothers."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said, coming to a halt under the largest tree on the hill. "You've got a list of twelve things. Find them all, and get them down there," I pointed to the spit of land poking out into the glittering sea. "Go for it." I sat down against the tree trunk with my hands behind my head. I had a great view of the whole test area.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The challenge was a simple one. All of the items were brightly colored and in plain sight. The Sear natives had</div>
<div class="paragraph">promised to keep from moving them until one of my students came within a couple of paces, and then they had to give a sporting chance, not dragging the item underground right away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other thing I had not told my class was that the natives had a very high body temperature. Freezia learned it the hard way when she spotted the first item, a bright blue cylinder. She and Bee noticed it at the same time. In spite of the Cantrip, Bee wasn't as fast on his feet as the graduate student. She dove for the cylinder, only to have it scoot from under her fingertips. Quickly, she brought the other hand smashing down, capturing the object. She plucked the tiny red Sear off the bottom of it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ow!" she cried, dropping it. "They're hot!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little being, deprived of its shade, grabbed for the next nearest thing, Freezia's backpack. It started pulling at the strap with surprising strength. Freezia pulled back. Bee laughed at the sight of a full-grown Pervect having a tug-of-war with a creature a mere fraction of her size.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you laughing at, you dolt?" she asked. "No, don't do that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Sear, unable to take the backpack, crawled along the strap and wriggled inside. Freezia threw open the flap and began to excavate its contents, trying to find the intruder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As her things began to hit the ground, more red dots came swarming up. They latched onto each item and began to drag them away. The Pervect suddenly looked up and saw her possessions disappearing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My compact!" Freezia shrieked, crawling after the nearest Sear. It was carrying a gold disk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Time!" I shouted. You don't have time! You already spent twenty minutes finding the first part!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want it back! It's a Goochy San Channel!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You can get it later!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She ignored me. The Sear vanished into a crack in the ground. She started picking away at the edge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, my manicure!" she wailed as a chip of orange polish went flying. Furious, she pointed a broken fingernail at the earth. "Cavata!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Stones and dirt began to scatter upward. She uncovered the gold disk, only to see it slip into another fissure. "No! You little thief!" The dirt flew faster. She disappeared behind the spray.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the confusion, she had forgotten all about the cylinder. Bee picked it up and put it in his belt pouch, and went in search of the next item on the list.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a full complement of magik under his belt, Melvine took to the air. With a pleased grin, he descended toward the spot where I had planted a folded yellow sheet. The look of alarm that crossed his face told me that the natives had appeared. They were going to beat him to it. Melvine whipped up a curlicue of wind and made it whisk around the circumference of the sheet to drive them back. I was glad to see him conserving energy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk found a bundle of bright green sticks. When he stooped to pick them up in his teeth, a native attached itself to his collar. When Tolk trotted away, his collar fell off. It started to bury itself in sand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thass mine!" he exclaimed around his mouthful. He stood transfixed, staring at the swiftly disappearing neckwear. He opened his mouth to let go of the struts, then clapped his jaw shut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh-huh, you're no' go'a cash me gha' way," he said. He started digging furiously with his front paws, tossing hot sand in every direction. The collar surfaced briefly. Tolk tossed his head, and the neckpiece levitated.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But the natives had magik of their own, and they outnumbered him. He couldn't keep it in the air. He plunged forward to capture it in his paws, but it disappeared into the dirt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Da'!" he swore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He trotted down to the headland and deposited his mouthful beside the cylinder Bee had already placed there. He saw me watching him, and shook his head furiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My mother gave me that collar!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I threw him a regretful shrug.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Give that back!" I heard Melvine yell. I sprang up. The Cupy was halfway down the hill beyond a dry gully. He pointed a finger at a clump of dirt. The clump exploded upward. "No! Give it to me. Give it back!" Boom! He tracked his minute opponents to another clump, and blew that one up, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine! Don't waste energy!" I yelled. "You haven't got four hours to hike back to the force line!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They stole my blankie!" Melvine howled, his baby face screwing up in a knot. "I want it back!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trade them for it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't want to! I want my blankie!" He sat down heavily on the ground. "This isn't fun any more!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">By evening, only Jinetta of the three Pervects still had her backpack. The contents of Bee's field pack had been depleted considerably by the natives. Melvine kept patting his pockets to make sure none of his other possessions had gone missing. Every time we heard a rustle in the grass, all six of my students jumped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When I called time, they staggered up the hill to where I was waiting. They looked tired and dejected.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's get the camp set up for the night," I said. "I've got three tents here. The big one is for you ladies. The men and I will share the other two. When they're up, we'll make dinner."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stay in a tent?" Jinetta asked disdainfully. "Why not go back to the inn?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because," I explained patiently, yet once again, "this is a test of your practical skills. You may never sleep outside again, but you're going to try it for one night."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But it's inconvenient," Freezia said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, it is," I said cheerfully. "Well, the tents won't put themselves up!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure they will," Melvine said. He aimed a thumb at the nearest bundle of canvas and string. The stiff arrangement of sheets</div>
<div class="paragraph">animated, billowing out to the correct shape. Pleased with himself, Melvine relaxed his spell. The tent promptly collapsed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll help you," Corporal Bee said, starting toward the puzzled Cupy. "You forgot to put up the tent poles—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I put a hand in his chest and pushed him back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let him solve the problem," I said. "You can help me get the campfire going."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir, I mean, Skeeve."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know how to do it," Pologne said. "I reached the rank of Tracker in the Perv Scouts." She marched over to the next folded tent and started to take it apart. Melvine pretended not to care, but I could see him shooting furtive glances in her direction to see how she did it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do we do about...?" Jinetta whispered in her friend's ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne turned to me. "I don't suppose you have a shovel, do you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta immediately added two and two together.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're kidding," she exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nope," I said. "No chamber pots out here. No flush toilets. Just the basics: you and a hole in the ground."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia wore a meditative expression. "I suppose we could blink the you-know-what away."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't waste power," I said firmly. "It won't kill you to use primitive means for one night."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Pologne said. "I have done it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too," Bee put in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who cares about you?" Jinetta said, rolling her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In spite of the Pervects' disdain, Bee generously lent the camping equipment in his gigantic field pack for the others to use. Jinetta and Freezia disappeared over the ridge of the hill, and returned looking relieved but chagrined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was disgusting" Jinetta was saying. "This had better help us a lot."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fortunately, Jinetta's pack contained enough camp rations for all three Pervects. I had to grin at the expressions on the</div>
<div class="paragraph">faces of the other three students as she ripped open a packet and dumped purple and brown lumps into a big dish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are they dead?" Pologne asked, prodding the lumps disdainfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, just stunned," Jinetta assured her. As she spoke, the mess began to stir.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's alive!" Tolk barked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course it's alive, you silly canid," Freezia said. "Pervects don't eat dead food. Did you bring anything to put on them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Jinetta sighed. "They were out of sweet and sour sauce at the camping store."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, Crom," Pologne said. "We have to eat them with no sauce?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">They divided up the dish and began to pick at their shares without enthusiasm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee produced hard bacon and biscuit from the depths of his pack and set them simmering over the fire. I had a crock of stew that Bunny had cooked for us. I took the preservative spell off it and set it to heat up. Tolk tried bites of each. I thought it smelled pretty good, but he was unimpressed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No flavor," he said. "I mean, maybe it's nourishing, but bland!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine wouldn't eat anything at all. "I can't believe you didn't bring any mush for me," he said. "That's all right! First you try to drown me, and now you starve me! What's that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A fly the size of my fingertip zipped past the campfire. A few more circled around, and zoomed out of the light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bugs!" he wailed. "I hate bugs!" He pointed a finger at them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine, no!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why," I asked again, as we sheltered underneath a rocky overhang with a huge dung fire going at the entrance to our makeshift cave, clutching our food to us in the tight quarters, "why didn't you just use a repelling spell? Why did you try to blow them up?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You have to admit, he succeeded," Tolk said, with a touch of humor. "He blew them up, all right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Beyond the fire we could see and hear the giant stinging wasps bu2zing furiously as they tried to get in at us. I strengthened the repellent spell I had placed on the cave mouth. I had conserved most of my power, knowing I would need it for many minor emergencies. Like this one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And our dinner burned because we had to get away from the killer bugs he created," Bee added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're eating it anyway. The smell is making us sick," Pologne said. Again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. I knew that Pervects could eat anything, but these three had never been exposed to other kinds of food. They were very young.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's cold," Jinetta said. "How is it that it was so hot all day, and now it is freezing?" She huddled as near the fire as she dared, shivering in her thin clothes. I cast a light warming spell in the cave. Everyone relaxed visibly and finished their dinner without too many more complaints.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look," I said, after Bee had shown the rest of the group how to scrub the dishes out with sand in lieu of a handy water supply. "You didn't do too well today. You only managed to secure three items off the list. You forgot everything I told you, and you let your tempers get in the way of being effective in the field. It is not that hard to deal with the natives. I told you what is important to them. None of you exploited those traits at all. You've already found out that brute force doesn't get you anywhere. When you found yourself with two courses of action you could take, you usually fell back on the one that related to you personally, not to the mission at hand. I wanted you to operate in a practical and simple fashion, and all of you got fancy. You didn't have to."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What has chasing red dots around the landscape got to do with anything practical and simple?" Pologne asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, what do you think I meant you to learn in today's exercise?" I countered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not to waste power?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's one of the lessons I hope you absorbed," I said. "What else?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How to get ripped off by little monsters who sneak up when you're not looking?" Free2ia asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's to teach you to make quick decisions," I said. "The right decisions. When you're faced with a dangerous situation, the last thing you can do is waste time, or I guarantee it will be. the last thing you do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'll be working in offices in six months," Jinetta said. "Making a slow and carefully considered decision is hardly going to prove fatal."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You'll be at the top of your game if you can assess a situation coolly and take action before anyone else does," I countered. "Believe me, I've spent plenty of time in my office, talking to potential clients. The best solution is usually the one I hit on first. Let me tell you how well that's worked out for me: I don't need your tuition to get by. It's a lot of money, but it's bupkis" I used a term I'd heard Aahz use once— I assumed it was Pervish, "to what I saved from my share of M.Y.T.H., Inc.'s take, and I had a LOT of partners. I'm on hiatus for as long as I want to be, and if I felt like doing my research in the middle of the biggest city in the busiest dimension you could think of with room service, gold-plated doorknobs and hot-and-cold running entertainment, I could afford to do it. Sorry," I said to the others. "I don't like to brag about wealth, but if that's the only thing you understand, then I've got to do it. I want you to understand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Looking thoughtful, they huddled together to go to sleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, what was it Skeeve said about the natives?" Tolk asked, in his friendly way, while the students were clearing up from breakfast. The flies had gone. Melvine looked relieved. As a means of atonement I made him take down all three tents. He was much better at striking them than erecting them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too bad you weren't paying attention," Pologne said, holding up her research globe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine brightened. "You took notes!" He stuck out a hand, and the globe went flying to him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Give that back!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How does it work?" Melvine asked. He invoked the orb, and high-pitched babbling issued from it. "There."</div>
<div class="paragraph">My voice rang out tinnily. ".. .They prize shade and water above anything else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trying to keep information for yourself?" Tolk asked suspiciously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne looked sulky. "I'm the only one who went to the trouble of taking notes. Why should you get the benefit of my work?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Teamwork," I said. "You'll get this done much faster if you work together."</div>
<div class="paragraph">None of them paid attention. They went off in six different directions, each with his or her eyes on the ground.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Got one!" Tolk yelped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He had spotted a long purple pole. Red spots began to bubble up out of the earth, preparing to drag it under. Tolk turned and lifted a leg over a piece of dry ground. The dots converged upon the area he had watered and began to burrow into it with a pleased noise. Happily, Tolk picked up the pole in his teeth and trotted down the hill toward the headland.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did you see what he just did?" Pologne asked Jinetta in horror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I'm certainly not going to—you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Pologne said thoughtfully. "But we have a canteen."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I leaned back against my tree and smiled.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_9" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36317812" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36317814" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eight <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Where's the instruction manual?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">T. EDISON</div>
<div class="paragraph">By midmorning, all twelve of the objects lay on the spit of land overlooking the sea. The students looked at me expectantly. I gave them a smile of approval.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Congratulations," I said. "You finished with over an hour to spare. Now, all you have to do is assemble this gizmo. It's pretty straightforward. The pieces slot together. Be careful. It opens outward under its own power."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's it do?" Melvine asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You'll find out when you're done."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," Jinetta said, tapping her hands together delicately. "Shall we try Obadiah's Assembly Spell?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's," Pologne agreed. The three Pervects put their hands together. A few of the parts twirled in place and began to slide toward one another, then drooped to a halt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I told you that was an indoor spell!" Freezia said. "There's too much interference out here. We have to find the right process. An outdoor process."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," Pologne said. She took out her small globe. "Let's see, there are enchantments for puzzle pieces, broken pieces, crazy paving—which one shall we use?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned. "You don't have to use a fixed process. Improvise. There are six of you. Come up with something new."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But Professor Maguffin said—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Raspberries to Professor Maguffin," Melvine sneered. "I don't want to be here all day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can do this without magik," Bee said. He started arranging things on the ground. "See, there's a triangular slot, and here's a peg that's the same shape."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, we can do it with magik," Jinetta insisted. "All we need to do is find the right spell. Freezia, what do you think?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't recall anything from Spellcrafting 501 that covered a situation like this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe there wasn't one," Tolk said. "Look look look, let's just put the pieces together by hand."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you insist," Jinetta said, clearly distressed at having to think outside the box or, rather, classroom. "It still feels wrong?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I found a flat tab and a flat slot," Melvine exclaimed. "Yeah!" He pushed them together, and they clicked satisfyingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But what about this thing?" Pologne asked Bee, flapping the sheet. "It hasn't got pegs."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, but it's got symbols printed on it. See here? There's an arrow, and there's a circle. Look for parts marked the same way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I began to understand why Guido had prized this shy country boy. He was a born organizer. With the Pervects balking all the way, he began to get the class working in the same direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It wasn't going to be easy or a one-man operation. I had scoured the Bazaar for a device that had to be levitated while it was being assembled. Until all the pieces were in place it couldn't be balanced on the single pole that supported it, and it could not be put together upside down. Once Bee figured that out he suggested politely that the more adept magicians use the last vestiges of power they were carrying to help support the incomplete device.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think this goes here," Melvine said, pushing the narrow blue fork into a slot. "It's a tight fit, but I can get it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop that," Jinetta ordered Melvine. "You're going to break that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, I'm not!" Melvine insisted. He pushed harder. The fork snapped. He glared at the Pervect. "See what you made me do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What I made you do?" Jinetta echoed. "You did it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, I didn't," Melvine said. "Didn't you see, Skeeve? She distracted me, and the piece broke!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You know who he reminds me of?" Pologne said to Freezia. "Carmellanga."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia grinned. "Yes, I see. Here, Melvine, you can put this piece in for me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She handed him a huge white spring. It packed substantial magikal power because it had to fling open the large yellow canvas. Melvine took it from her and ducked underneath the edge.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you see a double-slot under here anywhere? Ugh! It's a tight fit. Umph—" he grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Delicately, Freezia flicked her fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The spring rebounded, sending the small Cupy hurtling end over end off the edge of the cliff. He landed in the sea about ten feet below us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aagh! Salt water!" Melvine levitated out of the water and headed for the Pervects with blood in his eye. "Why did you do that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Us?" Jinetta asked innocently, regarding the dripping Cupy. "Why do you think we did anything?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You," he turned angrily to me. "How come you didn't tell me this thing was dangerous?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne raised her recorder ball and invoked it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My voice rattled out, "Be careful. It opens outward under its own power."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine gave me a fierce look and flew about a hundred feet away from us to dry out and sulk. The Pervects shared a sly look among themselves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, who is Carmellanga?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, she was a girl in our sorority," Jinetta said casually. "Always blaming other people for the things she did herself. She was just careless, and she never liked to take responsibility."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lazy," Freezia added. "I never had patience with her. One day we just let her hoist herself on her own petard. The housemother caught her cheating on her thesis, and she had no one to blame but herself. Like you said, though, we don't have time to let nature take its course."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's it for me," Jinetta said apologetically as the large yellow sail sagged down onto her head. "I'm out of power."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've got a little more," Bee said. "Tell me what to do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Push the magik up under here," the tallest Pervect said, poking at the canvas from underneath. "Hurry! It's falling over. No, up. Up!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where does this thing go?" Freezia demanded, holding a green box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Up under there," Tolk said, pointing with his nose to a spot inside the top of the sail. Both of his forepaws were occupied keeping the struts from collapsing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see. I can't reach it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can," Melvine said. The box rose from Freezia's fingers, and just slotted into place before Melvine's hands dropped. "I'm tapped."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the last piece," Pologne said with satisfaction. They all stepped back to admire their handiwork. "But what's it do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a shade-caster," I said. "I told you that the natives are desperate for ways to get out of the sun. It's for them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why should we give it to them when they stole all of our things?" Freezia asked with a toss of her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you want your stuff back?" I asked. "Then trade this to them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked skeptical until the red dots began surging up out of the ground under the shadow of the yellow sail. I invoked the activator, and the shadow spread out twice as far in every direction. More and more Sear natives popped up, cooing audibly as they enjoyed the opacity that shielded them from the pounding sunlight. Then I deactivated it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Sears let out a surprised squeak, retreating into the center, chasing the shrinking shadow. The yellow canvas umbrella collapsed until it was nothing but a palm-sized dot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The red spots sank into the sandy soil. Soon, things began to pop up like bizarre mushrooms. Pologne's backpack was the first to reappear. Tolk's collar came up next,</div>
<div class="paragraph">followed by an upheaval that revealed a heap of standard army issue items.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, there's my axe and fire-starter kit," Bee exclaimed. He thought about it for a moment. "I was kind of fine without them, I guess."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia's and Jinetta's packs returned very close to the supporting member, as if the Sears were hinting they would like the umbrella opened again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not until I see MY stuff," Melvine said, folding his arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A flask, a yo-yo, a couple of books with lurid covers, a travel pillow, a box of candy popped up, as did a silky fragment of cloth. Melvine grabbed for them and began to stuff them in the concealed pockets of his overall. A pair of purple panties emerged next.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oops, that's mine, too," Melvine said, diving for it. His face scarlet, he put them away. I raised my eyebrows, but Melvine wouldn't meet my gaze. I made a mental note of it. Those panties looked suspiciously like one of Bunny's that I had frequently seen drying on our clothesline.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mission accomplished," I said. "Let's go home."</div>
<div class="paragraph">As soon as we returned to the inn, I took Melvine aside by the ear.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ow! Hey, what's your problem!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"About those panties," I said in a low voice. "If those ARE yours, fine. But if they do belong to someone else, they had better be back where they belong in one second flat."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're accusing me of stealing?" Melvine whined defensively.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not accusing you of anything. I'm putting a hypothetical situation to you. And hypothetically, the next time anything belonging to anyone goes missing, you're out the door whether it's your fault or not."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not fair! I'm telling my auntie on you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So what?" I said. "I'll tell your auntie on YOU."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rosy cheeks paled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fine," he snarled, and vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a nice normal lunch and a relaxing bath, I set up some exercises in the courtyard for the students to practice basic levitation and traction spells. I had dropped back to Sear and brought one of the tiny red creatures with me to Klah. In exchange for a large supply of fresh water, the little creature agreed to run around the stableyard and dodge spells for the afternoon. I was monitoring the situation closely so it didn't get hurt by the clumsy maneuvers of my students, but I didn't have to worry. Most of them couldn't or wouldn't hit him. Only Tolk had made a successful attempt so far, clapping the Sear into an invisible cup of force. I had made the mistake of praising the simplicity of his spell. His smug scorn of the others had finally prompted me to send him out to take a walk on his own until he regained proportion. After Bee he was the weakest magikally.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wondered how it was, watching Melvine and Jinetta having yet another argument about how much power to use for a simple levitation spell, that Aahz had never wanted to rip my head off for being an obstreperous pain. On the other hand, perhaps sometimes Aahz DID want to rip my head off He had never done it. In retrospect, I admired his restraint. Melvine reminded me a lot of myself in the early days, when Gar-kin was trying to hammer the basics of candle-lighting and feather-levitation into me. I whined a lot, too, preferring to complain instead of putting in the grunt work. To complicate things, Melvine had tons more magikal potential than I ever did. He had already proved he was capable of misusing it. I was afraid he would get the others hurt or killed if he got careless at the wrong moment. I had to counteract his cockiness somehow. It didn't help that the Pervects put him on the defensive. They had their own insecurities.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't overthink it," I cautioned Jinetta for about the millionth time, as we went over a practice exercise in the yard at the inn. "Just use a whisker of power. The process doesn't have to have a fancy name. Just do it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little Sear dashed up and back in front of Jinetta like a duck in a shooting gallery. The tall Pervect dithered until I thought I was going to go insane from frustration.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her friends offered endless advice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about a Haley's Capture Spell?" said Pologne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No! That's for non-physical images. Just work up a Sticky-Floor Charm," Freezia suggested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I keep telling you, that's an indoor spell."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Quiet," I said. "You're confusing her. Let her work it out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But I can't," Jinetta said. "What if I get it wrong? What if when I throw it he runs out of reach?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned. "Just throw something at him. He won't even leave the yard. Your intent is to capture him. Improvise. Don't overdo it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But our professor said there's one ideal spell for every situation," Jinetta complained, also for about the millionth time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right," Freezia said. "He hammered it into us: 'one problem, one perfect solution."'</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was starting to dislike their professor, and I'd never met him. "And what happens if the problem gets worse while you're trying to figure out what that perfect solution is?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then I need to choose a different spell," Jinetta said. "Magik's not for wimps, you know. I can do it. I just haven't figured out the right one yet."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There isn't just one right answer to any problem," I said. Inspiration dawned, and I could hardly keep myself from grinning. I threw up a hand, and the Sear stopped running back and forth. "I'll prove it. Class dismissed. See you at dinner."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_10" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36318212" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36318214" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Nine <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"One man's feast is another man's toxic dump."</div>
<div class="paragraph">IRON CHEF</div>
<div class="paragraph">I rearranged seating at the broad, rough-hewn wooden rectangular dinner table, setting a seemingly random pattern of boy-girl-boy-girl all the way around along the big wooden benches. I wanted plenty of elbow room in between the students in case things got messy. With the Pervects' help, Bunny served dinner. As before, the Pervects supplied all the food, though they prepared only their own courses. Bunny made the rest. Normally we shared cooking duties. She and I had agreed that for the duration I wouldn't have to cook, in order to maintain my high status as Lord High Professor, a position above such 'menial' tasks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What I could only describe as 'mixed' aromas came from the kitchen as Bee and Tolk served the food: three bowls of noisome wriggling goo for the Pervects; Klahdish food for three of us; a bowl of pale gray, faintly moldy-smelling cereal for Melvine; and raw green meat for Tolk. Even after years of living with Aahz, it was hard to look at or smell Pervish food, but the others' preferred choices didn't look that much better to me. I'd tapped one of the massive kegs in the cellar, since beer was one of the few things we could all agree on, and floated two huge foaming pitchers to the table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Terrific!" I said cheerfully as I invited everyone to sit down. "Everything looks good. Thanks, Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A pleasure, Skeeve," Bunny smiled. She shimmied onto the bench at the head of the table next to me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Smells terrific, ma'am," Bee said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you!" The beam Bunny bestowed upon the skinny corporal made him blush out to his prominent ears. Hastily, he took his place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And now," I began as everyone picked up his or her cutlery, "before you eat, I want everyone to pick up his or her bowl, and hand it to the person on your left."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What????" they demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just do it," I said. "As your tutor in practical magik, I want you to take Tolk's food, and hand yours to Melvine." Trying not to grin wickedly, I politely handed my plate to Bunny, who passed her steaming bowl of broccabbage and brined meat to Tolk. I accepted a bowl of writhing purple goo. "Everyone got some? Now, eat up!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No way!" Melvine whined, pushing the struggling entree as far away from him as he could. "I want my mush!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not tonight," I said. "What you get tonight is in that bowl, and only in that bowl."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" he howled, beginning to pound on the table with his fists. "I want my mush! I want my mush!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine," I said ominously, "do you want me to go get your aunt?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked up at me, his lower lip stuck out, tantrum forgotten. "No-ooo."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then try it," I said. "You might like it. You never know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He wrinkled up his little pug nose. "It's icky!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Privately, I agreed with him. I would rather eat my bowl than what was in it, but I had a plan for getting around the 'ugh' factor. I was happy to offer clues to the students to achieve the same end for themselves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you can't stand it in that form, change it in some way. You know plenty of magik. Something in what you learned in Elemental School ought to work. Give it a try."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well—" The big baby poked at the creepy-crawlies with a spoon. "But they stink."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"True," I agreed. "Try deodorizing them. Or change the smell. Pour gravy on them. Freeze them. Cover them in cheese dip. I don't care. Just as long as, by the end of the meal, the contents of that dish are in your stomach."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ewwwwwwwww." Melvine might protest, but he was intelligent enough to know I meant business. He couldn't</div>
<div class="paragraph">outstubborn me as long as I held the ultimate trump card: Markie. He crouched down at eye level to the purple creatures to study them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're not eating," I observed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gimme a minute!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced at the Pervects. They didn't look any happier than Melvine. I knew Pervects could eat anything that didn't eat them first, but I guessed that the girls had lived such sheltered lives that they had never tried off-dimension food. The prospect was clearly bringing them to the extreme edge of nausea. I had to enjoy the look on Pologne's face as she picked unhappily at the bowl of mush.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's dead," she wailed. "It disintegrated!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the way it's supposed to look," I said. "Melvine doesn't have very many teeth, so he needs soft food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne took a spoonful, and promptly spewed it across the table. "Gack! It's like sand!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And this?" Jinetta asked, presenting what had been Bee's plate. "There's no smell at all! It might be made of plastic. That's not real food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure it is. Klahds eat it every day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta looked horrified. "You guys are sick."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk looked as though he agreed with her. His nose was almost flat against the table, as he stalked at the food he had received from Bunny. When he decided it wasn't looking, he lunged towards it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Grrrrrrr," he snarled at the chunk of meat. It didn't move. I was tempted to make it wiggle, just to make the contest more interesting. He shoved his sensitive black nose close. Sniff sniff sniff sniff.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey!" he yelped, retreating. "It bit me!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It didn't bite you," I said. "It's just a sharp smell. It's cooked in vinegar."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's disgusting!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine paddled his food with his spoon. "No, THIS is disgusting!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mine's worse," Freezia said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, mine's worse!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Try it," I said, leveling a fork at them. "We're not leaving this table until you all eat your dinners. One way or another."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're not eating," Pologne said to me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All the other students turned to stare.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gulp. I knew that this acid test would come sooner or later. I was prepared for it—I hoped. I took a deep breath. With everyone's eyes on me, I swept my hands over the bowl in my best stage-magician style, and created an illusion of blinding light. Concealed by the glare, I sent one piece of the reeking, writhing Pervish food into a covered container in the kitchen and exchanged it for what the container held, which was cooked squirrel-rat meat dyed purple to look like Pervish food. Before the others' eyes could recover from the light, I stabbed the chunk with my fork and stuffed it into my mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See," I said, as I chewed. "Nothing to it." I swallowed hastily. "So, how was your day, Bunny?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, fine, Skeeve. Did you see anything interesting on Sear?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not much," I admitted, 'enchanting' another piece of meat. "You've seen one arid desert landscape, you've seen them all."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny pursed her lips in a little smile. "I only like sandy terrain when it's close to the ocean. Don't you, Tolk?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She distracted the Terrier from his stalking of the corned beef. He was winning the contest, but just barely. "Grrrrr— Uh, yeah! I like to run in the waves. Good smells! Good smells! Yip!" He bit into a cluster of broccabbage, and it squirted butter all over his face. "It sprayed me! I must spray it back." He clambered up onto the bench, and prepared to raise his leg.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" I burst out, levitating out of my chair and pulling him down. "It's good. Really. Just calm down. Look, you almost spilled the beer. Just sit down." I patted him on the head. The vegetable lay inert where he had dropped it. "See? It didn't mean any harm. Go on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The canine shot several looks of distrust at the vegetables, but he returned to his seat. "Okay. You're the boss."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects snickered to themselves and shot meaningful glances at one another. Their expressions changed as they returned their attention to the food. Pologne looked like she might faint. Jinetta wore a skeptical expression. Freezia seemed so hopeless I thought she was going to give up and leave the table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee had taken my instructions literally. After watching in astonishment that turned inevitably into horrified disgust at the attempted escape of his entree, he thwacked each bite of Pervish food firmly with the heavy end of his spoon. Then, with his eyes squeezed firmly shut, he gulped down the mouthful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How are you doing, Bee?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay, sir," he gasped out, cracking one eye. "Sometimes we got food as bad as this in mess, sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Carry on, then."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I saw a prediction of bad weather in the crystal ball today," Bunny said, taking a delicate forkful of food. "It's supposed to hail tomorrow in the middle of the afternoon over most of western Klah."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'll work inside, then," I said. "Did you see anything else interesting?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk gulped the rest of his meal down in five bites, then gazed over his empty bowl at everyone in turn with big, sad, puppy-dog eyes. I didn't know if he was hoping for leftovers, or he had a bellyache from eating the strange food. No question about Melvine; he was in a full-scale sulk, peering down at the squirming objects in his bowl. He had only eaten one of them. I could tell that he was trying to figure out a way to persuade me not to make him eat the others. I calmly beamed another 'bite' from the kitchen and went on with my meal. Bunny and I went on with our conversation, doing our best to include our visitors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes, I did see something fun, Skeeve! The semi-final of Sink or Swim: Imper was on the Crystal Ball Network last night," Bunny said gleefully. "Five full-grown Imps knocked on their fannies by one itty bitty female Gremlin. They were</div>
<div class="paragraph">all disqualified at once. They should never underestimate girl power. Right, Freezia?" she asked, turning to the Pervect on my right.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The medium-sized student didn't reply.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd have said, don't underestimate Gremlins," I chuckled, picking up the verbal ball and running with it. "I'm surprised she was visible for the crystal ball. Gremlins are hard to spot." I knew; I'd met a few in my time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny broke off a crust of bread. "Oh, well, they have magicians with several crystals focused on the site at the same time," she explained. "And a master magician coordinating the images to transmit to all of us viewers. She couldn't possibly keep out of sight of all of them at once. She goes on to the final contest with two or three others. The Deveel, the Gargoyle, and I think one other. It's so exciting! I wonder how they think of all the contests they have to go through!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">With the inevitable before them, the other students were finally letting themselves experiment. Freezia was trying out a sense-deadening spell so she didn't taste anything. She had to be careful not to bite her tongue or eat her own fingers. She bit the bowls off two spoons before she finally got the hang of eating, and was making steady if unhappy progress.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne went the other way in terms of sensory input. She did a reanimation spell on the green meat. It jumped and writhed just like a genuine Pervish meal. She seemed to get some satisfaction out of chasing down and stabbing the chunks of meat, even if they were the wrong color and wrong texture. Jinetta threw an illusion on her food so it looked like and even smelled like the real thing. Pologne was still keeping her eye on me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think Sink or Swim is kind of silly," I said. "I know crystal ball viewing is becoming more popular throughout the dimensions. I prefer seeing events in person."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we can't all get to where things are happening, Skeeve," Bunny said. "And if we did, there's no guarantee you</div>
<div class="paragraph">would get a view as good as the magicians give us. Did you ever gaze while you were at college?" Bunny asked Jinetta.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tallest Pervect froze. To cover her sudden discomfort, she speared some of her food. "Not much," she said shortly. She popped the wriggling mass into her mouth. "I did at home."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, what did you like?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, nothing much." She stopped to spear a gooey pink organism that was probably a piece of corned beef in disguise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about you, Tolk?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not allowed on the couch," the doglike male said in some embarrassment. "I like to chew on the cushions, and Mama just didn't put up with it. I'm hoping to break the habit. I'm down to one throw pillow a day, but it's hard."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's tough," Bee said sympathetically. "I used to bite my nails as a kid. Papa cured it by painting iodine on 'em."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why would that help?" Jinetta asked. "Iodine's delicious. I like it on ice cream."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Finished!" Melvine announced, pushing his empty bowl away. "How about that, Teach?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised my eyebrows. The food was gone. I probed the dish with a mere thread of magikal energy, but it was really empty.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, wow, terrific, Melvine!" Tolk cheered, always ready to offer encouragement. "Way to go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Impressive, Cupy," Pologne said grudgingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mmm," Freezia murmured, keeping her attention fastened on what she was doing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well done, Melvine," I said, enchanting a new piece of food and impaling it on my fork. I even made it wiggle for effect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Teach," the big baby said, leaning back with his hands interlaced behind his head. "Say, that was weird. But, you know, I'm still hungry. I could go for a big bowl of mush. How about it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe you oughtta eat the rest of your dinner first, Mel," Bee said unexpectedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy sat up suddenly. "Huh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I noticed something go whizzing by my nose a minute ago, and I'll swear it smelled like this," Bee said, holding out a stunned glob of goo. "In fact, a while before that, one of 'em landed flat in my plate."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you say something, Bee?" I asked, even though I could have quoted his answer almost word for word.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The sincere brown eyes met mine. "Soldiers in a unit don't rat on each other, sir. But one of these days Miss Bunny's probably gonna find pieces of rotting food stuck around this room. Not that they could smell much worse than they do fresh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Watch it, pal," Pologne said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, ma'am," Bee said, his cheeks reddening under their freckles. "You don't like my kind of food any more than I like yours, but a task's a task. I learned that on the farm before I learned it in the army."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, you sanctimonious little prat," Melvine said, nastily. "I ate my whole meal all up. See?" He brandished the empty dish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not by yourself, you didn't," Bee said. "I ate at least one bite of it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tattletale!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can you back up your accusation?" I asked Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rangy youth looked uneasy. "Yessir, I think so." He concentrated hard then pointed a finger upward. Unlike his previous weak attempts to channel magikal energy, this spell, or rather Dispell, packed some punch. Suddenly, we were caught in a rain of sticky globs as wriggling pieces of Pervish food fell out of the chandelier, off the ceiling, out of the gallery that ran around the upper level of the room. I brushed off a few of the crawlers, and bent the most disapproving eye I could on Melvine. The big baby cringed back into his chair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You said to use our imaginations," he offered feebly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I said to use your imagination to EAT the food, not hide it," I said. Using a wave of magik, I gathered up all the stray pieces and plopped them down in front of him. Melvine grimaced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aw, come on, how can anyone eat this crap?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aaggh!" Freezia cried, spitting out her mouthful of vegetables. "I tasted it! I tasted it! You—you idiot!" she shrieked at Bee, belaboring him with her spoon. "Your stupid spell took mine off, too! Ugh!" She reached for the pitcher of beer and downed it in three big gulps. She threw out her chin in defiance. "I'm done with this experiment, Skeeve. Fail me. I just can't stand it any more."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You didn't fail at all, Freezia," I said. "You found a good solution to the problem I set. You don't have to finish the rest. See, Melvine, you can do it without cheating."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I put the forkful of food in my mouth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, that was it?" Jinetta asked, her eyebrows rising as enlightenment dawned. "This is what you meant by finding more than one solution to the same problem?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gah," I replied.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervect frowned. "What? Forgive me, did I miss something?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gaaa-aah," I repeated, with more conviction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was my own fault. I had been so intent on my lecture that it never occurred to me that Bee's Dispell not only got rid of Melvine's enchantment, and Freezia's, and Jinetta's, but mine, too. The swap spell had been interrupted, leaving me with a genuine piece of Pervect food on my fork. Which was now in my mouth, on its way to my stomach. It tasted worse than I had ever dreamed possible, a ragout of rotting hedgehog simmered lightly in skunk urine with a soupcon of Gleep's breath. To top it off, the creature felt as if it was growing as it went down my throat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gaaa-uuuuh," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny gave me a funny look. "Skeeve, are you all right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Igggaaaah," I stated a little more clearly, feeling my stomach rebel against the intruder, which seemed to have extended a pseudopod to explore my intestines. My abdomen contracted, pushing everything upward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hoogh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">If I was lucky I might be able to run to the garbage heap outside the kitchen door before the morsel made its reappearance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sguusme."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sprang to my feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next thing I knew, I was lying on my back, with the flickering flames of the dangling chandelier shooting around my vision like fireworks. The pain in my stomach was terrible. I thought my innards were ready to explode. I was about to die of Pervish cooking. I shut my eyes. Not like this, I prayed. Not like this.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Clear!" Tolk's voice came. I opened my eyes in time to see the Canidian falling towards me, paws first. I goggled, and tried to roll away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't move!" Bunny commanded, grabbing my head. "You got a taste of your own medicine. Tolk's fixing it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The canine landed on my belly with his weight on all four paws. I bent in the middle. The purple thing went flying out of my mouth. Pologne caught it neatly in one hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A perfectly good smushlik, ruined," she said mournfully. "My mother would be heartbroken."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you feel all right now?" Tolk asked, helping me to sit up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The truth was, I did feel better. I should have been bruised from having him leap on me, but I felt a sensation of well-being radiating from my stomach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What did you do?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dogtor magik," Tolk said modestly. "I'm a healer. That's my talent."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's great," I said as the others helped me to my feet. "Thank you. That food, er, just went down the wrong way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He peered at me. "You shouldn't eat anything else this evening. You've had enough solids," he advised. "Tea, maybe."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll make him some." Bunny bustled away to fill the kettle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others were gathered around me, most of them looking worried. "Are you sure you're all right, sir?" Bee asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah," Freezia added. "I hope you're not going to drop dead. I don't look forward to trying to negotiate a refund out of your business manager."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks for your concern," I said dryly. "I'm fine. Tolk was right. I just—overate."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"More than the rest of us did," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was to make a point. Did I get it across?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We don't have to be led from A to B," Pologne said. "Yes, we get it. There's no one single solution to a problem."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right. You all handled it in different ways," I said. "Isn't it best to choose the most expedient and practical way of getting a job done?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold on," Freezia said, flinging up her hands. "Maybe you were right once. I'm still not going to concede Professor Maguffin's method is wrong."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nor am I," Jinetta added. Pologne nodded her agreement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay," I sighed. "I'm not here to shoot him down. I'm just telling you what has worked for me in the real world. That's why you came here, isn't it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, yes," Jinetta admitted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's fine," I said. "For now, we'll agree to disagree."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Say, I'm hungry," Pologne announced suddenly. "Anyone up for a snack? I know where I can get the best iodine sundaes on Perv."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_11" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36318846" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36318848" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Ten <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"It's gonna cost you." ANY SURGEON, TECH REP OR AUTO MECHANIC</div>
<div class="paragraph">A vein popped out on Bee's forehead as he strained to concentrate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lift the feather," I ordered. "Levitation is not that hard. If I could learn to do it, anyone can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next day I had decided to do something about the wide gap in expertise between the students. Melvine and the Pervects had had basic training before they finished cutting their teeth—well, before Melvine had, anyhow. I believed that the Pervects were born with all their teeth. Bee's instruction had come from his village hedge-wizard and whatever the Possiltum Army's library of scrolls had stashed in between nudie pinups and manuals on how to strip down and repair crossbows, plus what he'd picked up from Massha. I could tell, that except for his handful of homegrown spells, all his progress in magik could be attributed to the latter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good try," Bunny said encouragingly. She sat polishing her nails on a down-stuffed cushion beneath a pavilion, and offering the occasional compliment to my apprentices. Gleep and Buttercup chased one another around the inn, offering a noisy distraction that I warned them all to ignore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Huh," Melvine grunted. He hovered in the trees, picking leaves off and tearing them to pieces without touching them. "What good is trying? Magik is about succeeding."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glared at him. "Don't show off, Melvine. Couldn't you try to help?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fine," he said. "Look, Klahd, just lift the feather. There's enough magik floating around here to raise the Titanic. Use some of it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But I don't know when I'm putting enough magik into it," Bee said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right, let's add a wrinkle. We'll give you resistance to work against. It'll be good practical experience for both of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's not practical experience," Jinetta insisted. "These are just exercises. We used to do them all the time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everything's practical. Bee, you push up on the feather. Jinetta, you push down."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's nothing to that," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aha," I said, "but here's the catch: you can't push any harder than he does. He'll levitate it up to here," I held out a hand, "then you top it with your magik. Don't let him push it any farther. You can't let it go lower than the original level. If he lets it drop, that's his problem, but you can't push it down. See how much control you have."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta tittered. "That ought to be easy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">But it wasn't, as I had reason to know. With endless power flowing into them, the girls were no more subtle than Melvine. They channeled whatever was in them. What they needed to learn was how to tighten the valve. The first time Jinetta pushed, the feather ended up embedded in a flagstone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oops," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See what I mean?" I said. "Freezia, Pologne, I have an exercise for the two of you to work on while Jinetta helps Bee. I want you to work on storing up energy then releasing it—slowly!— until you get used to how much you can hold normally."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne clicked her tongue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, when this place is full of lines of force? This is like Grand Perv Station!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I eyed her sternly. "Assume that at any moment they could disappear, and then what?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then Bee here wouldn't be able to lift his feather. Which he can't anyhow!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold on, someone's coming," Freezia announced. We all paused to listen. I couldn't hear anything, which wasn't</div>
<div class="paragraph">surprising. Pervect hearing was a dozen times keener than Klahdish.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How far away are they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne consulted a gold pendulum. "About a mile," she said. "You Klahds make more noise than a dragon in heat."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" protested my pet. Buttercup added a nicker in defense of his friend.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry," the Pervect said, holding out her hand to Gleep. "You would almost think that they could understand me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was unwilling to reveal Gleep's secret to anyone who hadn't saved my life at least ten times. "Well, at least he knows the word 'dragon.' Drop what you're doing, people. Put on a Klahdish disguise. Something believable," I said, halting Freezia, who had promptly transformed herself into a cow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ugh!" Freezia exclaimed. "You soft-skinned are uglier than ten miles of bad road. At least that creature has an attractive pattern!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fashion later," I said. "Security now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk came galloping back along the road. "A Klahd is coming this way!" he panted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A mile might have been a long way for a Klahd to cover, but I wanted plenty of time to finish my arguments with my class before whoever was racing towards us emerged from the bushes. Tolk was having trouble focusing his disguise spell, so I transformed him into a large dog—no stretch of the imagination there—and Gleep into a goat. My pet caught a glimpse of himself in the trough and gave me a look of reproach. I shrugged. If we had been in the house I might have gotten away with making him a dog, too, but he had a tendency to forget what he was doing and eat anything that appealed to him. I could get away with explaining a goat eating a cartwheel or gnawing on an anvil. Buttercup's horn was easily erased, leaving him a robustly handsome horse, not an unusual beast to find on a Klahdish homestead.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In an instant, Bunny's red-headed beauty was swallowed up by the semblance of a toothless crone sheltered from the</div>
<div class="paragraph">sun by a tattered gray cloth strung on a clothesline. The Pervects had assumed new disguises, having been coached by me and Bunny as to what represented beauty in our dimension. They appeared as three dainty lasses in the dress style worn by prosperous merchants—still in pastel shades, of course. Bee assumed Guido's hulking form. At first I was going to tell him to change back, then I realized he was thinking more clearly than I was. We had no idea whether the approaching being was hostile or not.</div>
<div class="paragraph">To diguise myself, I assumed my disgusting old man image, which was usually enough to remind casual visitors they needed to be elsewhere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A Klahd came panting into the yard. My illusion made his red face go somewhat pale, but whatever was troubling him was enough to make him risk catching whatever disease or vermin I might be carrying. He fell almost at my feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Great Skeeve," he gasped. "Where is the Great Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who wishes to see my master?" I asked, in a creaky voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He is summoned by Flink, the headman of Humulus," the man said after fetching several deep breaths. Bee came over to help the man to his feet. Tolk trotted over, took the man's wrist in his mouth shortly, then dropped it, giving me a nod. The man's pulse must have been all right. The other apprentices clustered around to listen. "I have been running for two days! There is a terrible monster destroying our village! It's attacking people, terrifying the livestock! The Great Skeeve must help us!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked so distressed I felt sorry for him. Before I could open my mouth to offer my help, Bunny was beside me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How terrible?" she asked. "Is it really a monster, or are you exaggerating? What's your name, honey?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Norb," the man replied. "Time is of the essence, crone. I have to see the Great Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In a moment," Bunny said silkily. "What is the threat, exactly? Are we talking about chewing furniture or tearing</div>
<div class="paragraph">down buildings? The Great Skeeve doesn't deal with smalltime vermin, you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Norb regarded her with distaste. "Woman, we are talking about burning buildings! It has a tail with a great spike! It roars fearsomely! The monster spits lightning bolts! Well, it doesn't spit them, exactly. It sort of sh—, er, well, it emits lightning!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She and I exchanged a glance. "Well?" she demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Over to you," I said resignedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny took Norb's arm and led him toward her pavilion. "Tell me, good sir, what kind of town is Humulus? Was it a thriving village before the monster invaded?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee whispered to me. "What is she doing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Business," I said shortly. "She's negotiating a fee for my services."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's what?" Bee demanded. He waved his arms, making him look even more like a scarecrow caught in a windstorm. "How come we aren't heading off to Humulus right now? Why aren't you dealing with the monster first? Aren't people more important than money?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Tolk asked, tilting his shaggy head. "What's going on? Why the delay?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked around uneasily at my class. "This is not about money per se. This part has always been tough for me, too. This is another lesson that my mentors have been trying to hammer into my head for years. You all are going to have to learn that your time and trouble are worth something. Quite a lot, in fact when you're talking about magikal ability. Lots of people will take advantage of you if you don't set a value on your services. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. 'The Great Skeeve' has a big reputation in these parts. I used to be the court magician in Possiltum, so my magik commands high fees, unless I do the work first. Long experience has taught me that it's almost impossible to get paid once you've already solved the problem. There is nothing as parsimonious as people who feel safe. If you're going to do this as a business, you've got to learn perspective. Think ahead, and remember you have</div>
<div class="paragraph">to eat, too. Otherwise you end up doing everything for free, and people will waste your time because they don't have a high value that they associate with your services. The fact is, I'm not as good at negotiating as Bunny is, and I probably never will be. That's why she stopped me. I can't just offer my help for free."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects were nodding, but Bee looked mortified.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sir, permission to disagree, sir! I'll help anyone who ever needs me, whether I can ever do the big stuff or not! Sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. He'd learn the hard way, just as I had.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's your talent, Bee. I can't stop you doing what you want to do. But experience helps you prioritize. Money's one way of figuring out how important a matter is to someone else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When I'm a wizard I'll help everyone I can," Bee insisted. I sighed. Bee and I couldn't be more than a couple of years apart— in fact, I was younger than he was—but I suddenly felt old.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine rolled his eyes. "I intend to make all the money I can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was upset with him, too. Money wasn't everything. It was nice to have—I wouldn't lie about that—but it would have surprised the young Skeeve who had started out life as an inept thief and even more inept magik-user that the most important thing in the world was one's friends and loved ones. He didn't seem to have compassion for anyone, not even himself. I lifted an eyebrow at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I hope, Melvine, that you'll figure out one day that following that kind of philosophy too far at the other end of the spectrum will backfire on you, too. Let's look at it from the practical standpoint: if you're too greedy, you're going to miss out on jobs because clients will be afraid that you're more interested in the profit margin than in helping them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Huh," the Cupy said. I could tell I hadn't impressed him, but Bee looked a little more forgiving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny returned with the villager in tow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We've come to a suitable arrangement, lackey," she said. "It is time for you to summon the Great Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now was the time for a fantastic effect, all the better for Norb to report back to his headman. I'd picked up a little showmanship from Aah2 and Massha over the years, and it worked really well in cases like this.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stand back!" I exclaimed, pushing back my sleeves. The fanfare of a brass band blared around us, making everyone but Bunny jump. The villager was wide-eyed with awe. I shook my hands over my head. "Wugga wugga wugga! Balloo balloo balloo! I call upon the master of magik, the big kahuna himself, commander of demons, conjuror deluxe, king of wizards and wizard to kings—bring us the Great Skeeve!" I dropped to my knees amid a forest of brilliant searchlight beams.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The 'disgusting old man' disappeared in a froth of multicolored foam that bubbled up out of the earth. Angels blowing on trumpets swooped down from the heavens and circled overhead. Cherubs followed, throwing bright blue glitter. I created a final illusion, that of cloud-topped lightning descending from the sky with my alter ego, the fearsome old magician, standing upon it with his arms crossed. As "I" reached the ground, Norb fell at my feet again, this time from awe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Could have used a few more fireworks," Pologne said critically from her vantage point on the sidelines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think it was kinda over the top," Melvine added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With one impressive forefinger, I signalled for my visitor to rise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He finally recovered enough to speak. "Why—why didn't your manservant just go into the house to fetch you?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">All right, maybe I hadn't impressed him as much as I had thought.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I lowered my eyebrows at him. "I was in a distant plane of existence," I boomed, "not occupying a miserable hovel like that. Why have I been disturbed from my studies?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Norb gestured uneasily in the direction of Bunny's pavilion. "Well, you see, I just finished telling that old crone—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I held up a hand. "Never mind! Your mind is an open book to me! The Great Skeeve knows all! I will help your town.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Assistants!" I clapped my hands. "Make ready to depart! And," I called as an afterthought, "pack lightly!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Norb guided us to the main northern road, and set as rapid a pace as he could. Since my new client couldn't give me or my 'apprentices' enough details to identify his 'monster,' I brought Gleep and Buttercup along as extra muscle. My pet dragon was as thrilled as Tolk was to go 'walkies' in the pleasant May weather, and spent many happy hours racing into the bushes beside the road, chasing the local wildlife and finding snacks. Gleep's taste in food was almost as dire as that of the Pervects, so I was happier when I could hear him but not see him slurping and chewing. Norb also seemed grateful that my very smelly 'goat' preferred to travel at a distance from him. He was very uneasy about my entourage. Bunny rode sidesaddle daintily on Buttercup's back. The war unicorn had never really gotten used to carrying civilians, but he adored Bunny. He blew out between his lips as Gleep disappeared again. I could tell he longed to romp with his friend, but his training held good and he remained on the road. I patted him on the nose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you sure you need all of these people, great wizard?" Norb kept asking me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They are my students and my servants," I intoned. "They accompany me to learn at my feet and to do those menial tasks such as preparing food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Norb looked skeptical. "Well, I thought you could do that all by magik."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Such tasks are beneath his attention," Bunny put in hastily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Behind us, the Pervects burst into giggles over some private joke I couldn't overhear. Now clad in the illusion of fine travel gowns, they weren't at all pleased with having to spend days disguised as Klahds. When we stopped for food, which because of their prodigious appetites was often, I had to pretend I was conjuring elementals or summoning demons to aid me and protect us on our path to explain away why we had to brew cauldrons of 'protective potion.' We really didn't have</div>
<div class="paragraph">anything to worry about. First, this was the main north-south trade route for this region, and was well patrolled by guardsmen in the service of the local ruler. Second, we were carrying few valuables to speak of. Third, those of us who weren't heavily armed packed a substantial magikal wallop. Fourth, and most importantly, anyone who got within ten yards of the Pervects' food was not going to cross the remaining distance, even if we had a string of naked dancing girls carrying baskets of diamonds. After one curious sniff, Norb put as much distance between himself and their cooking pot as he felt was safe. He kept pressing us to hurry. I calculated that it would take about two days to cover the distance on foot that he had run, but he had been traveling unencumbered and we, to put it briefly, were not.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In spite of my instructions, Bee had emerged from the inn with his whole field pack on. I had to admit that it didn't look oversized worn over the disguise of Guido's hulking build, but I could tell it was still Bee under there. Since he was more of a company clerk than a commando type, the weight was beginning to wear on him, though I think he would rather have undergone torture than admit it. He did manage to produce from its depths anything that anyone might even remotely need. I admired his preparedness, but it might have done the others some good if they had to improvise even once to make do. I couldn't criticize him again; he was trying so hard to live up to Massha's recommendation and my reputation. I did not feel worthy of such adulation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk carried a new cloth bag to replace the paper sack stolen by the Sear natives. A present from Bunny, it had once held half a bushel of garlic. Tolk loved it, and trotted along taking loving snorts from the stinking burlap. Melvine, resplendent in what Aahz would have called a 'Little Lord Fauntleroy' suit, swaggered onward hauling his belongings in a huge leather satchel that floated behind him like a balloon. Bunny, who ought to have known better, also claimed she was traveling light. For her, I suppose she was: two huge suitcases were slung</div>
<div class="paragraph">over Buttercup's back like panniers. All she carried on her own person seemed to be a ragged sack. My illusion overlay what was an incredibly expensive designer silk bag Aahz and I had given her for her last birthday. Inside it was Bytina, her palm-sized Perfectly Darling Assistant, cosmetics, gum, a small amount of gold for our travel expenses, and the most powerful pocket calculator on Klah. Not that she needed it. What Bunny lacked in magikal ability was more than made up for by her facility with numbers. When she wasn't chatting with one or another of the apprentices, she was catching up via Bytina with one or another of her many correspondents in other dimensions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I strode on in thoughtful silence, occasionally lowering my eyebrows as if deep in thought. In truth, I was. My conscience was barking at me, telling me I shouldn't be putting my innocent apprentices into harm's way. On the other hand, if I left them behind and the task took too long, I would feel I was cheating them out of several days' instruction. On the other hand, observing me in action wouldn't hurt, and they might even be able to help me. On yet another hand, I wondered if having them help might make the job harder than it ought to be. I decided that was enough hands. What would happen would happen, and I could only try to prepare my students to be flexible.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Norb accepted all of the strangeness of my entourage as befitting that of a notorious wizard. The one thing he couldn't tolerate was how slow we were moving.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hurry up!" he begged, not for the first time that day. "The road's good and the weather is fine. You could put a move on, wizard! Er, with respect, of course."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you're so impatient," Bunny said, also not for the first time that day, "why don't you trot ahead and see if there's a decent inn we can put up at for the night? We'll move much faster tomorrow if we get a good night's sleep."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Old cro—-madam, your witches' brew got us pitched out of the last one. I had to pay a substantial amount above</div>
<div class="paragraph">and beyond the inn's fee not to have the tavernkeeper summon the local guards. Even the drunks were afraid of your potion's stench!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Actually, it was our—goat that made the smell," Bunny pointed out. Gleep seemed to have taken a fancy to Freezia's cooking. He had begun licking out their pot. Pervish cooking passing through a dragon's digestive system had unfortunate results, to say the least. Norb picked up on that with alacrity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Since you admit that it was your creature's fault that I was forced to waste the headman's money, then perhaps you shoulder the burden for tonight's lodging."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny looked outraged. "You don't expect the Great Skeeve to pay for his own lodging? Not when he's going to save your town?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Muttering something about "this had better be worth it," Norb trotted ahead into the woods, leaving us alone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The moment he was gone, the Pervects went into elaborate gyrations and gestures. Their disguise spells dissipated, revealing their scaly green faces and four-inch-long fangs. Small animals and birds fled screaming into the trees.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whew!" Jinetta said, admiring herself in a pocket mirror. "My mother warned me if I made ugly faces I would free2e that way someday."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How do you know it didn't?" Pologne asked cattily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta pouted. "You don't have to be mean about it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How are you going to defeat a monster that shoots lightning?" Bee asked when he was sure our guide was out of earshot.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know yet," I said honestly. From my studies I knew of a number that could have fit the description Norb gave us. Furry, big, lightning. There were giant furred spiders in the dimension of Phobia whose webs were crackling nets of lightning. That didn't sound exactly like the creature Norb was talking about—too many legs. There was a huge blue bunny on Vorpal that spat lightning. I shook my head. I knew too much and too little to help. The Pervects had been searching</div>
<div class="paragraph">their information sources for furry lightning-shooting creatures, and had also come up with too many possibilities.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Mostly, I worried that my apprentices could be harmed or killed helping me with this mission. I had no intention of letting them get hurt, but I wanted them to try to rid this town of the menace. It would give them a sense of accomplishment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny was sympathetic. "I have faith in you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe you were right," I moaned. "Maybe I've taken on more than I can handle."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't give up now," Bunny said firmly. "You're just getting good at this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I said glumly, but I appreciated the gesture.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here he comes again," Freezia announced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Put your disguises on again," I instructed the students.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta sighed as she assumed her Klahdish appearance. "I just hate not being me, you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Think of it as a dreary necessity," I said severely. "You have no idea how much trouble we'd get into if they ever saw your normal face."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The trouble with your Klahds is that you don't appreciate genuine beauty," Pologne said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good news, wizard," Norb said, panting up to us. "I found an inn that hasn't gotten the news from the one we tried to stay in last night!"</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_12" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36319421" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36319423" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eleven <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Are these things supposed to act like that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">S.KING</div>
<div class="paragraph">CRASH!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We must be near Humulus," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The monster is still raging!" Norb shouted, pulling me along by the elbow. "Hurry, master wizard!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Either this is a very large town," Bunny murmured to me as we passed through the high wooden gates, "or this is one very slow monster. And the villagers haven't managed to overpower it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I guess not. That's why they sent for a wizard. I don't know why it stayed here. That is the part that strikes me as strange."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The streets that unrolled before us as the portal slammed shut at our backs suggested the former. Humulus was, or had been, a thriving trading town. Nearly all the buildings on the roads I could see had three or four storeys with shops on the ground level, all deserted now, many of them with broken windows or balconies. I could hear more crashing and the shouting of hundreds of people not far away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That way," I pointed toward the loudest sounds of destruction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">FZZZAAAP! A tearing noise ripped through the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What was that?" Melvine asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lightning!" I felt around for force lines. Luckily, there was a medium-sized blue-tinged line arching overhead. I latched onto it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everybody fill up your tanks," I said. I noticed Melvine screwing up his face to protest. "No argument! Do it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I paused for a moment, to give my students time and to make sure my own reservoir of power was topped up as high</div>
<div class="paragraph">as it would go. As soon as all of them had given me the nod, we shouldered our way into the town square.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The cobblestoned common was full of people, most of them flailing around with makeshift weapons: farm implements, brooms, ex-army spears and the like. The most action was coming from the far corner of the square, where a group of people was clearly trying to attack something in their midst, but definitely not wanting to be too close to it. I shouldered closer, followed by my retinue.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At first all we could see was a two-storey red brick building with terra-cotta gargoyles studding the wall just beneath the eaves. The side of the structure had been punched in, as if by a gigantic hand. While I watched, some of the bricks crumbled away, and a huge Klahdlike face, surrounded by a tawny-colored shaggy mane, appeared. The beast, which stood twice as high as a tall man, clawed at another piece of wall with a gigantic paw, dislodging more masonry that crunched down onto the crowd. The townspeople yelled and shifted away from the falling bricks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The creature struggled for a moment then extracted itself from the broken building, pulling the rest of it down as it wrestled free. The shaggy head was followed by an immense, smooth-furred body with muscular haunches. The tail wasn't furry—it looked insectoid. Pale blue, jointed, translucent sections terminated in a stinger longer than my foot. I gulped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is it?" Bunny gasped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a Manticore," I said. "They're native to the dimension Mantico. I've read about them, but never seen one before in the flesh. They're dangerous."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No kidding," Melvine said scornfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I admit it was stating the obvious, as the Manticore bared a mouthful of long, white fangs. He snapped at the outstretched arm of a statue and bit it right off. He spat it at the crowd, who milled away from him, still shouting and brandishing their makeshift weapons. A few brave souls forced their way forward and threw rocks at the beast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He staggered to his hind feet and roared. I had read that Manticores were nonsentient, but my textbook was wrong. This creature was wearing a uniform. Not much of one, admittedly: a polished gold-and-leather breastplate was tied to his mighty furred chest. Strapped around his mid-section was a wide belt from which hung several pouches and a gleaming dagger. Another dagger was strapped to his right ankle. Perched in the thick mane, in between the rounded ears, was a dark blue, flat-topped cap with a brim. And in his right paw was clenched a spherical container bound with leather straps. When another shower of rocks flew at him out of the crowd, he threw a massive arm around the container to protect it. I raised my eyebrows.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did he steal that?" Bunny whispered to me. "Is that what they're trying to get back?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think it belongs to him," I said, in a low voice, heartened by the sight. "If you ask me—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here he is!" Norb grabbed my arm and dragged me toward a huge bearded man standing behind a small army of crossbowmen kneeling to fire. "Master Flink, here's the wizard!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold your fire!" Flink ordered. Norb hurried to whisper in the big man's ear. The headman turned toward me. With a few silver lines at the temples, Master Flink had hair and beard as black as his beady little eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, wizard, what do you think?" he demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think," I intoned, "that you have a problem."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you, now?" he exploded. "Well, you must be a soothsayer as well as a wizard! As if anyone couldn't tell we have a problem, dammit! Well, solve it! We'll pay you what Norb here tells me you want. More! Just get this damned monster out of my town!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I inclined my head slightly, my expression grave. "As you wish, Master Flink. I do not believe that this concern is so serious that it merits more than my personal oversight. My apprentices will handle this matter." I folded my arms into my sleeves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whatever you want," Flink growled. "Just get on with it! It was snoring away up to half an hour ago, but now it's up again, and look what it's done!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I assure you, the monster will be removed with as little additional damage as possible," I told Flink.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your apprentices will WHAT?" Melvine demanded. His shock was mirrored on the other five students' faces. The Pervects' jaws hung open. "You're kidding!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to them and lowered my voice. "No, I'm not kidding. You didn't like my exercises in the courtyard. You said they weren't practical enough. Well, here is a practical field exercise." I waved a hand in the direction of the Manticore. "Get a game plan together. Take him out of town. We'll deal with him there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Right," Jinetta said resolutely, assuming the leadership. The Pervects went into a huddle. She pulled her gazing crystal from her field pack and began to gesture over it. "Manticores, Manticores. Here's the entry in the Encyclopedia Pervetica."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The other girls peered over her shoulder. Bee peered around the square, muttering numbers to himself. "Forty yards by forty-five. Nine direct routes in, not counting air." Tolk just gawked, his long pink tongue lolling in amazement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see," Pologne said, glancing up. "This creature is an adolescent. You can tell because the whiskers are no longer ivory colored, but not yet fully golden."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And one of them is bent," Freezia added, "indicating a defeat by a more powerful opponent, such as a dragon. I recall from one of Professor Simble's lectures that Manticore whiskers are one of the most flexible and tough fibers in all the dimensions."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, not a dragon," Pologne corrected her. "Only a magikal attack could have bent it! Dragons are unlikely to have cast a spell. They prefer to use brute firepower."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course!" Freezia tittered. "I defer to your superior memory, Polly." She pulled out a notebook and made a note in it with an orange plume. "Physical attack. How long ago, do you think?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I couldn't say for certain," Pologne said thoughtfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Master Flink, there he goes again!" one of the bowman shouted. The Manticore had pulled himself to his feet and was staggering across the square.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold your fire!" the headman said. "The wizard's about to do something!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When?" demanded a fat man in a flour-spattered tunic and apron. I deduced at once that he was the town baker. "He's tearing up my granary!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore had pushed aside the canopy that hung over the entrance to the white-plastered building, and appeared to be trying to crawl inside, to the detriment of the door frame.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, wizard? Hurry! He'll destroy my entire shop!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">If you've never felt the eyes of a thousand people fixed on you all at once, let me tell you it's uncomfortable. I kept my face, wearing the guise of the venerable and formidable wizard, from showing any emotion, but underneath I was growing as impatient as the townspeople. Still, I waited. I was fairly certain no one was in any direct danger from this monster at the moment, and I thought my students had an important lesson to learn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At last, one of them took action. Melvine tugged at my sleeve.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, Skeeve, how about we leave?" he suggested, in as suave a voice as he could muster. "This doesn't have to be our fight, does it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure it does!" Tolk said, goggling. "Let's go get him! Let's go get him! Now-wow-wow-wow!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We made a contract, Melvine," Bee added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Strictly speaking, Skeeve made the contract," Melvine said, planting his hands on his chest. "I had no problem with the exercises you had us doing. My aunt exaggerated a lot about me needing to get close with big-time experiences. Look, if you don't mind, I'll just observe from over there. Maybe up that street on the left. Whaddaya say?" The Cupy began to back away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you afraid of?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine halted, mouth open in indignation. "I'm not saying I'm afraid! I mean, this THING, with those big claws, and all those teeth—!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, if he's not fully mature, he won't have all his rows of teeth," Pologne said, still engrossed in her reading matter.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What does that mean?" Bee asked curiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne dragged him closer so he could see into the crystal ball. "See the chart? His emotions mature at a perceptible rate. Depending on his age, he will understand certain abstract notions better than others."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're saying we should appeal to his better sense, eh?" Tolk asked, his tongue lolling. "Good idea!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some of the townsfolk began to remark among themselves about the novelty of a talking dog. I regretted not giving him human semblance before we started out, but that would have given people something else to talk about when he dropped to all fours to run.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine began to edge toward the rear of the square. I grabbed him by the collar and tossed him back into the midst of the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the meantime, the headman ordered the archers to let fly. The bolts peppered the Manticore, who brushed them off with a fearsome roar. Blood seeped out of the golden fur. The Manticore staggered blindly in the direction of the bowmen. The people in his way screamed and ran. The Manticore lurched toward the noises, stinging here and there with his tail, and swiping with one big paw, but was too slow to hit any of them. He was hampered by the fact that he continued to clutch the round container tightly to his chest. Growling in disappointment, he dropped to all threes to crawl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Curse it, reload and prepare to fire!" Flink shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bowmen thrust the stirrups of their bows into the ground and yanked the strings back to the trigger, keeping one eye on the beast as they shoved fresh quarrels into the groove of their weapons. The Manticore snarled and kicked out at a</div>
<div class="paragraph">haycart that unaccountably got in his way. The wagon tumbled end over end and crashed into the side of a building.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Some brave townsfolk mustered to throw more rocks at the monster. When he turned toward them, they fled to hide behind the archers, who were forming a trembling wedge behind me and my apprentices.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore stumbled over the shrubbery that surrounded a memorial garden in the middle of the square. With a huge splash, he fell flat in the pond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The townsfolk broke into nervous laughter. The Manticore seemed to take this amiss. He rose up on three limbs, lashing his pale blue tail until his backside faced us. Then, he hoisted the tail high.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everybody down!" Flink yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My limited knowledge of Manticores made me realize what threat lay in store. I hit the dirt. "Students! Down!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects, distracted from their perusal of the crystal ball, looked at me aghast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In our good clothes?" Jinetta demanded, hands on hips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">By now the others had noticed the threat and thrown themselves to the ground. I reached out with a massive dollop of magik, just in time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore's backside swiveled toward us, and the huge haunch muscles squeezed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">FZZZAPP!</div>
<div class="paragraph">I suddenly understood Norb's description of how the creature 'emitted lightning,' a fact unaccountably left out of the stuffy textbook I had been reading. A blue-white bolt erupted from the beast's nether parts and shot directly toward the young Pervect. I levitated Jinetta straight up into the air. The bolt missed her, blasting into a huge tree on the green. I reached for some more magik from the blue force line I could see overhead, but it was so thin I couldn't get more than a trickle out of it. I was left with less than half what my internal 'tank' could hold.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I hope I'm not going to regret that later," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, thanks a million!" Jinetta said, insulted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not what I meant," I began. "Look out!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aagh!" Melvine shrieked, diving for the cobblestones again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore, once having hoisted his tail, was randomly blasting houses and buildings apart with lightning bolts. He turned once more to look directly at the cluster of people behind me, and a mean smile crossed his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" shouted Flink.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore concentrated deeply, and the biggest lightning bolt yet shot out of his backside and hurtled into a white stone building at the end of the square. The face of it exploded, shooting fragments in every direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The town hall!" Norb yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do something, Master Skeeve!" Flink said in frustration. "Your assistants are no help!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I agree," I said mildly. I turned to the small cluster at my back. "Apprentices!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It looks like maybe it got hurt by those arrows," Tolk pointed out eagerly. "I can fix it. Maybe then it'll like us and stop causing trouble."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's one theory," Jinetta said. "It ought to understand the concept of gratitude."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, listen up!" I said to them in a low but urgent voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I dunno," Bee said. "If, like you say, they're vulnerable between the eyes, I can probably hit it square if one of these fellows will give me his crossbow."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore seemed to revel in the dismayed groans of the assembly at the destruction of their town hall. He rose to his hind feet and staggered toward the building, pausing to take a swallow from the container en route. My apprentices didn't seem to see the action.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I cleared my throat. "Excuse me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">With the townsfolk in pursuit, the Manticore ambled unsteadily over to the smoking ruin and began to pick the statues and ornaments off its eaves one at a time, plinking them into the fountain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can we appeal to its intelligence?" Pologne asked passionately.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine blew a raspberry. "Do YOU speak Manticore?" •       "Well, no."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I lost my patience.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"EXCUSE ME!" They all turned to stare at me. I glared back. "Before you try to appeal to his intelligence or sense of gratitude, hadn't you better stop him from destroying anything else first?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Huh?" they asked, almost in unison.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stood back so they could get a good look at the ongoing destruction. The Manticore heaved a carved stone windowsill into the pond. The water splashed high into the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh!" they exclaimed, as though surprised that he hadn't held still while they identified him as to genus, species and subspecies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Skeeve," Tolk said, lowering his shaggy head. "We just kinda got caught up—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No time," I interrupted him. "Hurry up and get him out of town. Then we can handle him without anyone else getting hurt."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No problem," Melvine said. "I can grab him with a whirlwind." He saw my concerned face and grinned. "It's okay, Teach. I've been refining it. Really."</div>
<div class="paragraph">His small face contorted, and he held out his hands. An eddy in the dust began to turn. It picked up bricks and stones in its wake as it started to trace a path toward the Manticore, who had discovered the curved blue roof tiles. He was picking them off one at a time and eating them as if they were cookies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tornado grew very slowly, seeming to sneak up on the monster, skirting behind trees and buildings whenever he turned his head. I admired Melvine's tactics. They might even work, as long as the creature didn't notice. The tip of the wind touched the beast's toe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Huh?" the Manticore said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">WHOOSH! Before he could move, the tiny windstorm snaked up his body and enveloped him. The bemused face, the last to be absorbed, whipped helplessly around in circles.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeeeaaaah!" Melvine carolled, dancing around. "I'm the Cupy! I'm the Cupy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Move it out of here!" I shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He gave me a sheepish glance. "Oh, yeah."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy tilted his head, and the whirlwind started to weave down the street toward the gate. Respectfully, the townsfolk moved aside. I admired Melvine's control. He had been practicing. Markie was right. All the kid needed was a little direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd followed, chanting and brandishing its homemade weapons.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yay! Death to the monster! Death to the monster! Death to the monster!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore wasn't going without a fight. Little jets of lightning zipped out of the maelstrom, leaving tiny black burns where they hit. The Klahds jumped back, some of them yelping in pain.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine," I said as the tornado started to drift off true. "Melvine, watch it. You're getting too close to that—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">CRASH!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"—lamp post."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked down. Beads of moisture dotted the Cupy's brow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't hold him! I'm losing power!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why is your spell failing?" Jinetta asked critically. "Didn't you invoke all the correct parameters?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There are no correct parameters, sister," Melvine snarled. "YOU try holding onto it! My magik is fading! This worked fine in my practice sessions with rats!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rats!" Freezia sneered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Obviously there's something you missed," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not me! It's not my fault!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There is something!" Pologne exclaimed, lifting her eyes from the crystal ball. "Manticore lightning drains force lines!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned. My text really had missed out on all the important facts about Manticores.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine blew a raspberry. "No wonder! See! I didn't blow it! How come YOU didn't tell me that, with all your research?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta shrieked in outrage. "Me? How much do you think I can read in five minutes?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I rolled my eyes. "Stop arguing! Bee, Tolk, help Melvine."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"With respect, Master Skeeve, I don't know how to make a tornado," Bee said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me neither," Tolk barked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You don't have to," I said, watching desperately as the wind stuttered. Pretty soon it was going to fade to a summer breeze, and we'd be back to where we started. "Picture a big pair of hands. Each of you make one and put it on one side of the tornado. Steady it, and help Melvine push it out of town. That's all you need to do. Ladies, stand by. If all we have to work on is what power we're packing, then we have to use it where it counts. Remember Sear! And don't let your disguise spells drop!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Master Skeeve," they chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee and Tolk put up one hand apiece, and concentrated. The spell was rough and unsteady, but they started to move the sputtering whirlwind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Two of them managed to get the Manticore partway out of the gate before the whirlwind collapsed. The Manticore dropped to the ground, his fur in knots. He shook himself mightily, then checked to see that his container was all right. It was. The Manticore roared angrily. With a look that presaged revenge, he started to crawl back into the center of town.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The people of Humulus scattered widely as soon as the tornado had faded. I was relieved to have them out of my way. If he was angry before, the Manticore was out of his mind with fury now. He plunged his free hand through the nearest shop window and came out with an entire table, which he used to beat down the rest of the street lamps within reach. Without the whirlwind, Bee and Tolk strained to push the</div>
<div class="paragraph">Manticore towards the gate. They were losing the contest. I had to get the rest of the apprentices engaged on the task.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I reached for a force line, any force line. Unfortunately, Jinetta had been right: the local lines were depleted by the Manticore's lightning spell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ladies, I'm going to need your help right now" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But we haven't finished studying the Manticore yet!" Jinetta complained.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You haven't really studied this one at all," I pointed out. "You're only reading books about the species. Put the crystal ball away. What can you see about this one that will help us get it out of town? Use those analytical minds Pervects are so proud of."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uhhh" The three girls fixed their gaze on the beast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's very angry," Freezia said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not interfering with his effectiveness," I said. "Believe me. But, stop and think about it: why do you think he's been here five days?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's lost?" Jinetta suggested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look at the jar in his arm," I said. "He's doing everything he can to keep us from hitting it. When he runs into an obstruction, his first concern is for its safety."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a baby!" Freezia squealed. "He's saving his baby!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, no," I said as the Manticore raised the container over his head and squeezed a long stream of green fluid into his maw. "I'd say that it's liquor. He's drunk."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's awful!" Pologne said. "Abusing alcohol to the point of incoherence! I've never heard of such a thing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And how does that help?" Melvine asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Use your imagination," I snapped. I had wanted them to save the town by themselves, but they really didn't have a clue. Like it or not, I had to lead again. "He'll go where his jug does. Jinetta and Pologne, take over for Bee and Tolk. Bee, you're the best at orienteering. We passed a gum-gorse tree a few miles outside of town. Go and locate it for me. When you find it, stay on the road as close to it as you can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir!" The ex-corporal took off running. I turned to the Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Freezia, have you got a good retrieval spell?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It depends on what you want to use it for," the petite Pervect said, matching my businesslike tone. "Is the object animal, vegetable or mineral? Is it bigger than a breadbox, or small enough for angels to dance on its head?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's that bottle!" I said, out of patience. "Get it out of his grasp and fly it out of here." The Manticore shot another bolt of lightning out of his bottom. "Now would be a good time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, hurry, Freezy," Jinetta gasped. "That blast weakened my spell!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I'll try!" Freezia said. "My goodness, he has a tight grip! I—I can't do both spells at once!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Neither can I!" Pologne wailed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Shades of green were beginning to show through my apprentices' peaches-and-cream complexions. In a minute, the townsfolk were going to have three Pervects in their midst. Having been involved in riots with Aahz on Klah once before, I wanted to avoid the possibility. I threw what little power I had left into the disguise spells.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're under wraps," I said. "Keep trying to get that bottle!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll distract him! C'mon, Gleep! Hey, critter!" Tolk and my dragon galloped straight for the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Surprised by the two creatures advancing on him, the Manticore stopped spraying the surrounding buildings with lightning. Tolk, looking very small beside the beast, started worrying at one of his big, shaggy feet. Gleep burned the other foot with his tiny spear of flame. The Manticore roared in surprise. His tail lanced down over his head. Yelping, Tolk dodged the spike. Gleep saw the whole thing as a game, and started jumping around, yodelling every time the raging Manticore missed him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep! Gleep! Gleep!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now!" I bellowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia jerked at nothing with both hands. The round container lunged out of the Manticore's grip.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She pushed, and it sped out of the gate into the woods.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey!" the beast roared. He dropped to all fours and began running after the jug.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Buttercup, stay with Bunny!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">We started running after the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Within a few hundred yards the mob had fallen behind. I was relieved. My magik was just about depleted. I let the disguise spells fall away. What power I had left might serve to light a candle, no more.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia kept the bottle just out of the Manticore's grip, teasing him one way or another, but not letting him run faster than we could keep up. The beast never noticed us, being completely focused on getting the booze back. The young Pervect played him like a fish on a line, reeling in the jug then yanking it back out again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This road is so rough," Freezia gasped. "I'm afraid of losing control. Oh, I hate having no magik!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can put the Cantrip on you," Tolk said. "I think I learned it well enough from Bee."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Klahd magik!" Pologne snorted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think that's a good idea," I said. "I'd take him up on it, if I were you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, just as long as she doesn't start wearing tasteless clothes," the Pervect said, rolling her eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took a lot of concentration to cast an unfamiliar enchantment on the run, but Tolk did manage to bespell Bee's spell.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rrrrrrr!CANTRIP!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">We all felt the results. The Pervects may have been scornful of the magik and the magician, but it seemed that we were running on air, all the stones and ruts cleared out of our way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm proud of you, Tolk," I panted. "Good work!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Skeeve!" Tolk barked, racing around us in a circle. "I did good. I did good. I did good."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's much better," Pologne said, reluctantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've got a flight coupon," Jinetta said, digging in her backpack as we ran. "I can zip ahead and see where Bee is."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, good idea!" Freezia praised her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you!" she beamed. From her bag she fished out a slip of blue paper and blinked at it. "Nothing is happening! I know this ticket isn't outdated!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's the strain on the force line," Pologne said. "It's nothing more than a thread! Those tickets need a lot of magik to work!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I hate this!" Jinetta said. "I feel so helpless!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're not helpless," I said. "Not as long as you can think."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fine words, I chided myself, as we chased a drunken Manticore five times our size down the road. I wondered if my students thought I sounded as supercilious as I felt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A slight figure in the distance stepped out of the bushes and waved its hands over its head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's Bee," I said. "Everybody get ready. Freezia, send the bottle after him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waved back to Bee, pointing into the woods. He beckoned to us and stepped off the road to the right.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The gum-gorse was one of the nastiest pieces of nature that it had ever been my misfortune to run into. Its fragrant, blue-green bark was said to be good to eat, but it was defended from predators by a thick layer of viscous goo and studded with long, red spines that not only hurt going into one's skin, but worse coming out because of their minute, backward-facing barbs. When I'd been an inept junior thief, I once tried to get away from someone I had robbed by climbing up into one. My victim had laughed at seeing me stuck there among the thorns, and left me, saying it was a harsher punishment than he had planned to give me. I had only been freed by a kindly passerby who knew the tree's secret.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This specimen almost waved its branches as if to say, "Come and get me, sucker."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I ran up beside the tree and clapped my hands together. "Throw it here, Freezia!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The young Pervect flicked her fingers, and the bottle came hurtling towards me. It smacked into my arms. It was bigger than I thought, about the size of a medicine ball.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oof! Hey, big guy!" I shouted, waving it at the Manticore. "Do you want this?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Roooooaaarr!" the beast gargled. He lumbered in my direction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bee! Go long!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ex-soldier dashed out a little way and held out his hands. Using a touch of magik to offset the weight, I heaved the container to him. Bee turned around and threw it to Freezia, who nearly let it drop in surprise. The Manticore peered from one to the other, trying to follow the flight path of the beloved jug. He started to gallumph toward Freezia. She saw him coming, and called out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Catch, Jinetta!" The tall Pervect leaped into the air, intercepting the ball like a pro.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh! Oh! To me!" Tolk yelped. Jinetta slung it to him underhand. It rolled past him, and he galloped after it, his tongue flying. Gleep beat him to it, and the two of them fought over it, each tugging the strap in opposite directions. Gleep won the tug-of-war, and dashed around through the trees with the Manticore in pursuit. As he passed me for the second time, I reached under his chin and yanked the bottle away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my pet protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry, but you're not helping!" I said. I tossed the container in a high lob toward Bee. The ex-corporal dove for it, snagging it out from under the beast's nose, and tossing it to Pologne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore roared in frustration. The bottle bounded around him too fast for his addled wits. He staggered toward one of us, then another, then another. His legs seemed to be getting tangled up underneath him. The insectlike tail lashed, stabbing over his head. We ducked under cover of branches and into bushes to avoid the deadly sting. With the container</div>
<div class="paragraph">in my arms, I dodged towards a heartwood tree just ahead of the Manticore. The sting missed me. The tree took a direct hit. It let out a low moaning sound, and red sap dribbled down the trunk. The Manticore edged around the tree, his claws reaching avidly for the bottle. Hastily, I heaved it all the way across the circle. The Manticore turned to follow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I felt for the force line. It was refilling; the Manticore hadn't thrown a lightning bolt in several minutes. Pologne reached out to snag the bottle and cocked her arm back to toss it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't throw it!" I called. "Can you levitate?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think so!" she called back, her Klahd-disguised face wrinkled pensively. "Where?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Over the gum-gorse—right NOW!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The middle-sized Pervect looked doubtful, but she crouched and sprang, just ahead of the Manticore's leap to retrieve his property. Pologne hovered above the tree.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do I do now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Taunt him!" I yelled. "Pretend he's your little brother!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The look of doubt became even more pronounced, but she reached inside herself for her inner big sister. "Hey, Manticore!" she said. "I've got your whateveritis! You can't have it back! Nyah nyah nyah!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't touch the thorns!" I warned her. "Everyone else, spread out! Don't let him past you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How?" Tolk asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't have to worry. The Manticore cared for nothing but getting his jug back. His tail slashing, he stalked around the gum-gorse tree, measuring his chances of leaping up at Pologne. As I had assumed, the branches were too thick. The beast started to climb up the trunk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeowch! Yeowch! Yeeee—uhhh?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Within two steps, the accretion of viscous sap was enough to cement the Manticore's limbs to the trunk. With total bemusement on his Klahdlike face, the Manticore tried to pull a forepaw loose. It wouldn't come. Neither would the other. He yanked at one back leg then the other. No luck. With a</div>
<div class="paragraph">fearsome snarl, he swung his tail around for a killing stab. The stinger plunged deep into the bark—and held fast. The growl died away to a puzzled whine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It worked!" Melvine exclaimed. "Wow. You got that right, Teach."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I said drily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervect continued to float around the treetop, spewing her version of invective. "You're ugly! And Mother doesn't love you! And I don't like it when you blink my cosmetics out just when I'm about to put them on—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Pologne!" I called. "You can stop now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh," she said, clearly disappointed. "I was just hitting my stride. Are you sure I should not abuse it a while longer?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said. "Come down. I want to talk to it."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_13" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36320443" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36320445" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twelve <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I think we've forgotten something." ALAMO COMMEMORATION COMMITTEE</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore heaved wildly, trying to pull each limb loose. He was not going anywhere. The sticky gum had merged with his fur, creating a thick felt that could have been used for roofing. He couldn't launch lightning bolts at us now, even if he wanted. The scorpionlike tail had been wound halfway around the bole of the tree. Truthfully, the Manticore looked pretty pathetic. Dribbles of blood oozed out of the long fur from where the thorns had pierced the skin. His eyes rolled with fear as we converged upon him. Gleep flattened himself on his belly, and snarled. The Manticore cringed back even farther.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, we kill it?" Melvine asked, advancing on the creature with a bloodthirsty gleam in his eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nope," I said, stiffarming the Cupy several feet from our captive. "We just talk to him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What? What fun is that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to the Pervects. "Can any of you speak Manticore?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Freezia said, raising a forefinger. "I did a course in comparative languages. But he hasn't said anything yet for me to compare it to!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's see if we can get him to say something."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had not spent several years in the Bazaar at Deva for nothing. Most of the Deveel vendors there knew several languages, the better to cheat—I mean, deal—with buyers from numerous dimensions, and none of them would ever let a sale slip by for ANY reason. The usual means of communicating with newcomers was a spell or an amulet of translation. I felt the force line. It was plumping up nicely. I scoured my memory</div>
<div class="paragraph">for the spell that I had learned from a friendly merchant named Bellma—for a price, of course. Nothing was free in the Bazaar, but it was often worth the cost.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The magikal force had resurged sufficiently for me to include all of my apprentices within the range of the spell. It didn't have a physical manifestation, but I felt as though we were now linked by tubes that led from our mouths to everyone else's ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who are you?" I asked the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The beast jerked back—as far as he could, covered with glue—and gazed at me. "You speak my language!" "Uh, sort of. I'm Skeeve. These are my students."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I am Evad, ensign of the Royal Manticorean Navy. You must be a powerful general to have captured me," the Manticore said. "I bow to you." He couldn't do that much, either, but I appreciated the effort.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Actually, I'm a magician," I said. "What were you doing tearing up that town? You wrecked most of the place."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore showed his fangs. "They were not intelligent. I asked them where I was, and no one could tell me! I tried to insist that they send for a translator, and they kept hitting me with things. That was rude! I got impatient."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised an eyebrow. "So you got drunk and smashed the place up? What's your commanding officer going to think of that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">For the first time the creature actually looked ashamed of himself. His big, shaggy head drooped. "Not much. I have only five days left on my leave, and I'm wasting it in this stupid backwater! No offense."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"None taken," I replied with a smile. "It's nothing I haven't thought myself from time to time. This dimension is called Klah, though not by the people who live here. They've got pretty particular ideas about keeping your hands off other people's houses, by the way. You'll have to make up for the damage you did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore moaned. "My head hurts!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to Tolk. "Can you do something for him?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure-sure-sure!" the Canidian said. "Happy to try. Never had a Manticorean for a patient before, eh? Hold still."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are being very kind to a stranger, especially one who tried to kill you," the Manticorean said as Tolk leaped up on his back and climbed up to perch on his shoulder. Tolk laid his paws on the other's shaggy mane.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Would you rather we killed you?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Evad thought about it. "I might save face that way," he said. "I will go back now in disgrace. An officer in the Royal Manticorean Navy, getting lost in the wrong dimension like a first-year student! Ah, that is better. But, alas, I am sober now! Thank you, brown-and-white being."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tolk's the name," the Canidian said cheerfully, leaping down. "You're good as new."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"More likely I will die attached to this fierce plant!" the Manticore said dramatically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not really," I said. "The sap runs when it gets warm. All we have to do is heat it, and you'll slide right off. No problem, apart from the thorns."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I will bear the pain," Evad said bravely. "I do it for the honor of our Queen."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Gleep." I put out a hand, and my pet ran to me. "Can you warm the sap just a little bit? Not enough to set it on fire."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my dragon replied happily. He dashed to the side of the tree and exhaled. A flame tickled out from his throat, and the brown goo began to bubble. The Manticore writhed and tried to pull his feet up out of reach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you doing, O wizard?" Evad wailed. "Would you burn me at the stake?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep?" my pet turned large, puzzled blue eyes up toward the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta put up a timid hand. "May we try? That is one spell we use frequently, to heat bathwater in our dorms. It would be nice to put it to use in a real-world setting."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go right ahead." I took the time to ponder Evad's pride problem.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects gathered around the tree and concentrated. The gluey resin changed from opaque to translucent and began to swell slightly. I had an idea even before the Manticore slid to the ground with a bang.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too bad," Melvine said. "A Manticore head would have looked pretty impressive over my mantlepiece."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are a fierce opponent, Klahd," the Manticore said as the rest of the goo dripped off him in sheets.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, but I'm not a Klahd. I'm a Cupy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore made a courtly bow. "I am corrected. I am afraid you all look alike to me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, you better remember in the future," Melvine said, his baby face fierce. "We're tougher than we look."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop threatening him, Melvine," I said. "Hitting a fellow when he's down is small-minded."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not what my aunt does," Melvine interrupted me. "She—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And Markie put your education in my hands," I interrupted back, as the Pervects moved in, ears pricked with curiosity. "Does that tell you anything?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, do what she says, not what she does?" Melvine ventured.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's start there." I turned to the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What can I do, O Skeeve," Evad asked miserably. "I am an honorable male, but on an ensign's pay I don't have the funds to make up for the trouble I caused, nor do I have the time to work off the amount. I have no valuables except my insigne."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Bee suggested, "you wouldn't be the first ensign to have to hock his uniform to pay his way out of trouble. It happened a fair amount in the Possiltum army. You can redeem it later."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I couldn't," Evad said, horrified. "It belongs to the Queen!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have an idea," I said. "That venom of yours: does it kill or wound?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It depends upon what I mean it to do," Evad said, his big face puzzled. "Most of the time it will only make the flesh swell up and become painful. Those people I struck will recover, unless I pierced them in a vital area. I will apologize to them. I am ashamed to have used brute force on civilians."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, that's not what I mean," I said. "I'm more interested in the venom itself. So, you can produce it in different strengths, or are they different fluids?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore looked as though he was getting another headache. "I do not know, O Skeeve. I have never really thought about it. Why?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm doing comprehensive magikal studies," I explained. "Could you, er, give me a sample of each kind? I would like to study them. I'd like to do some experiments to see if there is any difference, and if either is good for other magikal purposes. I'd pay you for them. A fair price."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Evad looked suspicious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I could do that," he said. "But such a small amount will not discharge my debt to the people of that village."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I think it will," I said airily. "Here's my offer: I'd be willing to pay you the going rate for Manticore venom on Klah."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There is no Manticore venom on Klah, so far as I know," Bee said. "I would have heard about a weapon like that when I was in the army."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That would make it pretty valuable, wouldn't it?" I asked innocently. Evad perked up as he began to catch my drift.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"O Skeeve, if you would do that, I would be your servant for life!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's not go that far," I said hastily. "What about the deal?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes! I agree! Shall we drink on it?" Evad asked congenially. "Where is my bottle?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe we should just shake hands," I suggested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We hiked back into Humulus, Evad walking among us with his shaggy head bowed to show contrition.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't get it," Melvine kept saying. "I mean, that thing is as big as a house, and you make friends with it? You had it where you wanted it, and you let it go? What if he suddenly goes crazy on us?" He glanced over his shoulder at the huge Manticore shuffling along in our wake.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think," Jinetta said tentatively, "that it is very impressive that Skeeve turned an enemy into an ally."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, by paying him off!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, by meeting mutual needs!" Tolk said, his pink tongue flapping happily as he ran beside us on all fours. "Wow, that's so cool! Skeeve, you're brilliant!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How did you think of doing that?" Pologne asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's something we did a lot when I was with M.Y.T.H., Inc.," I explained. "A win-win deal leaves everyone happy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why bother with a win-win? You had a savage killer at your mercy. He was helpless! You could have gotten much more out of him than you did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look," I explained. "I don't need more than a couple of vials' worth of venom right now. If I do, I know where to find him. I don't want a slave. He needs the money. Everyone gets what they want, right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not exactly," Freezia said, looking ahead. I peered into the distance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Neither my sight nor my hearing was as keen as the Pervects', but within a few steps I could make out the citizens of Humulus huddled together just inside their village gate. They were chanting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kill the monster! Kill the monster! Kill the monster!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">We hiked closer, and I could see the villagers' faces change from anger to astonishment, and slide right over into fear. They hoisted their weapons still further, and their voices became more shrill.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Kill the monsters! Kill the monsters! Kill the monsters!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Master Skeeve," Bee said, "I think we forgot one little thing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We did," I groaned. "No one remembered to put their disguise spells back on, did they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A quick glance around revealed the awful truth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, sir," Bee confirmed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nor I," said Jinetta.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Or us," the other two Pervects chimed in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about we run away, right now?" Melvine asked as the villagers began to move towards us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bowmen!" Flink's voice rose above the others. "Prepare to fire!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Bunny shrieked. She thrust aside a couple of big men and sent them staggering. Her disguise had dropped, revealing the beauty beneath the hag. Two larger men jumped in and grabbed her arms. It cost a dozen or more of them bites, gouges and bruises to subdue Buttercup, but they captured him, too. "Skeeve! Run for it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't think we're going to get the chance," I said hastily. "Let's take it on the offensive. Everyone remember their levitation spells? Grab arrows first. Next, whatever other weapons they point at you. After that, we may have to raise a few people's consciousnesses. Let's go."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I squared my shoulders and marched forward. It took the others a moment to catch on, but Bee double-timed it to parade at my shoulder. Tolk trotted up, showing his teeth ferociously. Gleep led the way, lashing his tail and spewing out a stream of fire nearly two feet long, not bad for a baby dragon. The Pervects minced along behind, their dainty steps out of context—to my fellow Klahds—with the green scaly faces and long teeth. I meant to play on that disparity. But first, I had to disarm our employers before they killed someone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fire!" shrieked Flink.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The first flight of arrows came winging at us. I waved an imperious hand, not so impressive since I was now ordinary Skeeve, all blond hair, blue eyes and lanky build, but with a full tank of magik to draw upon it was no trouble to send the bolts flying on over our heads. They thudded into the road behind us, raising a cloud of dust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is that all you've got?" I shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A few brave souls hoisted homemade spears and prepared to throw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ladies?" I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, let me!" Pologne piped up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, you got to taunt the Manticore," Jinetta said. "It's my turn!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Someone do it," I gritted as the villagers let fly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta sashayed out from our ranks and held out her hands. The makeshift spears halted in mid-air and began to whirl, describing complicated patterns.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I was in marching band in secondary school," she explained to me cheerfully over her shoulder. The spears fell into her outstretched palms, and she sent them flying again. "I was the best baton twirler in Sangafroid! I still remember the fight song! 'Fight on for dear Sangafroid! Kill the other team! Rip their heads off/ For dear old Sangafroid!'" she warbled. She caught the spears deftly in each hand and did a back flip, landing on one knee. "Ta-daaaa!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Brava!" I called, breaking into applause. My apprentices and Evad joined in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The villagers didn't. They broke into a run, heading back towards the gate. Jinetta looked disappointed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Freezia, you were very good at the retrieval spell," I said. "Can you find the catch that holds up that portcullis and release it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes, Master Skeeve!" the petite Pervect exclaimed. She went through a series of complicated gestures then pulled one hand back as if yanking a lever.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The big gate came crashing down, just as the villagers reached it. The first ones there slammed into it, and the following waves of people piled into them. I strolled up to Flink, who was at the back of the group with his archers. I leaned forward and smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He jumped about three feet backwards, stumbling into the beleaguered bowmen. Then, recovering his dignity, he</div>
<div class="paragraph">pulled down his tunic and thrust out his chin. "You have us trapped, wizard, but we will fight for our lives against your cohort of monsters."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Monsters?" I asked innocently. "Do you see any monsters?" I glanced back at my students and let out a deep laugh. "Are you fooled by my illusion? I cast these semblances upon my apprentices to strike terror into the Manticore and force him to surrender! Behold!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I whisked my hand, and all of the students assumed their disguises. I became the imperious Skeeve the Great once again and Gleep turned back into a goat. The villagers relaxed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Flink swallowed. "You must admit their appearance was very convincing, er, wizard."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course they are," I said calmly. "I am the best."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You mean, this gorgeous girl is really a hideous hag?" asked one of the men holding Bunny. He thrust her away. "Eeeyuch!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're no prize yourself," Bunny said, tossing her hair in annoyance. "Master Skeeve, is everything okie-dokie?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It certainly is," I said. "Behold! We have captured the Manticore!" I waved him forward. "Evad!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Manticore shuffled up to us, his cap in his hands. "Me sorry," he said, in the Klahdish I'd taught him on the way up the road. Close, but no Norelco shaver.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Captured?" Flink roared. "Why didn't you kill it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Behind him, the townsfolk began to chant again. "Kill the monster! Kill the monster!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Evad looked alarmed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was not in our contract," I said coldly. "Norb brought us here to rid your town of the intruder. He didn't say anything about killing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I would have thought that was implied, wizard!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Magik is a very specific study, Master Flink. I do not deal in inference. If I was that unclear in my spells, I'd have had my guts ripped out by demons a long time ago."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then, kill it!" Flink ordered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I crossed my arms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That would require a renegotiation of our agreement, Master Flink," I said, "involving substantially higher fees regarding magikal wear and tear, disposal of the body, that kind of thing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Flink looked dismayed. I pressed my advantage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wouldn't you be happier if I said that this Manticore here was prepared to make amends for the destruction he caused?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Evad came forward, his big paws clasped together contritely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why—" Flink thought about it. "I suppose so."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He stabbed my husband!" a woman cried out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And my nephew!" boomed a stout man, bringing forward a boy wearing bloodstained coveralls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He hurt a lot of people, not just buildings," Flink pointed out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we can fix that, too, at no extra charge," I said agreeably. "Tolk!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yessir!" the Canidian said, trotting forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I pointed to the wounded townsfolk. "Heal!"</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_14" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36321022" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36321024" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Thirteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"We're not in this for the money."</div>
<div class="paragraph">W. GATES</div>
<div class="paragraph">In spite of having to maintain our disguises the walk home was much more relaxed than the outward journey. My students laughed and congratulated one another, recapping the whole mission to Humulus and their own successes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You were brilliant, Jinetta!" Pologne exclaimed. "I have never heard the fight song rendered with more spirit!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta preened with pleasure. "I wish Coach could have been here to see it. But you, Pologne! Your hovering was picture perfect. We could have been back in the lab!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was some pretty flying," Bee said wistfully. "I wish I could do that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, you will," Jinetta assured him. "It just takes practice. I'll spot you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We all will," Freezia promised. "That was amazing! To think all the magik we learned in school actually has a use in the real world! I thought all the 'power-in, power-out' nonsense was just academic. And, oh, I was never so grateful to see a force line in my life!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too," Melvine grunted. "You don't really appreciate them when they're gone. On Sear it didn't seem like such a big deal, but here—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You were fabulous," Jinetta told him enthusiastically. "I'm sure none of us could have held on to that big lummox for so long with a diminishing power ratio! And with all those people yelling, too—it was so distracting!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't forget Bee's calculations," Tolk said. "Wow-wow-wow! We rebuilt that whole town hall in an hour!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was nothing," Bee said modestly. "I read in an old scroll that items that had been bonded for any time had a</div>
<div class="paragraph">sympathetic cohesion that could be rejoined by magik. I wouldn't have believed you could have put it together again like a jigsaw puzzle, until Melvine here showed us."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy waved a hand. "Easy! With all of you and Evad there to steady the stone blocks, I had no problem raising the walls. Nice redecoration, there, by the way, Freezia. When you were done I couldn't see a single crack in the plaster, and the frescoes looked like new."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you," the petite Pervect said, beaming. "A Magikal Arts major doesn't seem to have turned out to be the useless piece of parchment my parents were afraid it would."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And how about Pologne's illusion when Skeeve sent the Manticore home?" Bee asked. "Those flames were so real I could almost smell them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, it was just a little of this, and a little of that," Pologne said, blushing green.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We are the best," Tolk exclaimed. "Hey, you know, we oughta have a name! Like—Skeeve's Students! Then we could have matching tunics, and school colors, and everything!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ehhh," Jinetta said. "I don't know about the rest, but I like the idea of a name. Skeeve's Students is a little too pedestrian, and it sounds sort of grade-schoolish. We're here for advanced studies. No offense, Tolk."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"None taken! I'm not very good at names. I bet you are! What do you think?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know. Someone throw out some ideas."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Bee began. The others turned toward him eagerly. "You know Master Skeeve and my sergeant, Swatter, were partners in M.Y.T.H., Inc. What if we called ourselves something related to that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oooh," Pologne squealed. "My parents would be so impressed. I know they've heard of M.Y.T.H., Inc."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're famous for magik," Tolk said. "But you Pervects have a lot of amazing machines. So, we're both magikal and technological. Can we do something with that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's a great idea, Tolk," Freezia exclaimed. "How about it, Jinny?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tallest Pervect knitted her scaly brows together. "I know! How about Myth-ka-Technic University? That combines both disciplines along with ancient spirituality!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, that's good," Pologne said. "It sounds—advanced."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Terrific, Miss Jinetta," Bee said. "I like it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not bad," Melvine agreed. "You're good with words."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, thank you!" Jinetta beamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, about those tunics," Tolk said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I listened, letting them jabber on happily, heaping praise on one another and accepting compliments. I was pleased with the way things had turned out. Mostly. I had taken Bunny aside while Tolk was repairing jabbed thighs and gouged shoulders to ask her for our bag of gold. Facing her was almost worse than facing a drunken Manticore. Even after the two extra days we spent in Humulus offering our assistance repairing the town hall as a gesture of good will, she was still angry about it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I cannot believe that you paid out our entire travel budget on two tubes of poison!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Manticore venom," I corrected her, but my ears were burning. Bunny was the only one who wasn't ecstatically happy about the outcome of our adventure. Gleep trotted alongside her, laying his long neck against her knee, and rolling big blue eyes up at her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She ignored him, stalking along with crossed arms. "I don't care. You gave away a whole bag of gold because you felt sorry for that sting-tailed oaf! He's the one who got drunk. You didn't put that bottle into his paws. You're not responsible for his problem."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said with a sigh. She was right. I was being soft. Part of me knew it was counterproductive, but part of me was glad. Evad had been so grateful for my 'deal' that I didn't even think ahead to the fearsome task of having to explain to Bunny why I needed our entire traveling budget so the Manticore could</div>
<div class="paragraph">pay off his debts. The reward we had been paid by the headman did cover the amount I had given Evad, plus a little left over. Bunny was not appeased. Still, I thought it had been a great learning experience for my pupils.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look, Bunny," I said persuasively, "think of it as an investment. What if you had a potion that changed its effect when you wanted it to? Studying this phenomenon could get us a big profit one day. Think of the applications for non-magicians!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">In spite of herself, she let the corner of her mouth quirk up in a half-smile. "You're just trying to dance your way out of trouble. Skeeve, it's your money. I wouldn't be a very good accountant if I didn't tell you when you were wasting it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're the best," I said sincerely. "Who knows? This really could be the beginning of an important magikal breakthrough. An exclusive!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Right up until the time that the Deveels figure out what you did and undercut your deal with the people on Mantico," she pointed out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned back. "So it's a limited exclusive. But we made a profit, didn't we?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My uncle wouldn't consider it a very good return, and neither would Aahz."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If I'd continued on in magik the way I started out, only caring what I could make from it, you wouldn't still be here, would you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny shook her head. "I wouldn't give you the time of day. All right, Skeeve, it's your money."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's ours," I declared. "We all earned it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my pet crowed, happy that we had made up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You were terrific, too," I told him. He jumped up to slime me with his long tongue. "Ugh, Gleep!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep," he declared, and trotted off into the woods to find something to eat. Bunny and I grinned as he disappeared into the undergrowth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"...It's decided, then," Jinetta was saying as we dropped back into the group. "Tomorrow we'll work on Cantrip. Once</div>
<div class="paragraph">we're good at that, I wouldn't mind learning Tolk's anti-headache remedy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's easy! It's easy!" the Canidian promised enthusiastically.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Even the old inn seemed to wear a halo of contentment. I wasn't even bothered by the wave of stale air that blew out in my face when I unspelled the main door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come with me," I invited the students. "I have a surprise for you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Murmuring with curiosity, they followed. I gestured for them to gather around the scarred and stained dining table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I assigned you a hard task. You not only rose to the occasion, but you threw in your own flourishes that made it more than a success. You worked together, and you played off each other's strengths. I'm proud of your progress, and I'm proud of you. So, let me add to the festivities a little." I produced the bag of money that Bunny had collected from Headman Flink. "Here's our reward. We get half, since I'm teaching you and Bunny is my support staff. But the rest should rightly be divided between all of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I dumped the shining stream of silver out onto the table top. The coins bounced and jingled and rolled around the wooden table top. When the last one vibrated to a ringing halt, I could have heard a fly cough in the big room. I looked up at my students. To my amazement, all of them were staring at me with expressions ranging from dismay to horror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's the matter?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can't accept this, Master Skeeve," Tolk said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We don't deserve it," Bee added. "If it wasn't for you, we'd have fallen on our faces a bunch of times."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But you didn't," I assured him. "All you needed was a little confidence. I did very little. It was your efforts. Take it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" they protested in unison, the Pervects loudest of all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why not?" Bunny asked. She sorted the money into neat piles, a large one for us and small ones for each of them. "You earned it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can't accept any money from you," Jinetta said, almost desperately. I was puzzled: a Pervect refusing to take money?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's apprentice wages," I said calmly. "Less than I'd accept for such a task, even at your level of experience. If you were my partners, you'd be entitled to equal shares. You did a good job. You should participate in the reward."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Melvine said, crossing his little arms. "We won't accept it. Not a copper piece. Not a wooden nickel."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you sure?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We can't," Pologne insisted, her yellow eyes large with alarm. "Really. All we want from you is an education. Nothing else. And we'll have to ask you to take that as our final word."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They nodded in unison. I shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They seemed to be more in accord than they had been at any time before, appearing to have achieved a mutual understanding on the long walk home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, if that's what you want," I said, "but I promise you would still get the same education from me whether you accept this reward or not."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Tolk said. "You can't force us to take it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Force you?" Freezia snorted. "You wanted to take it. I could see it in your eyes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's not true," the Canidian howled. "How about you? Perverts are greedy. Everyone knows it. Why don't you just take your shares? You know you want to."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You liar," Jinetta said. "And that's Pervect!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In your dreams! Eating food that smells like garbage. That's perverted!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, you're such hypocrites," Melvine sneered. "Slurping down purple worms then it's 'oh, dear, look at that bug! It might crawl on me!'"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You should talk, Mr. Fearless," Bee said. "What was with you when we first got to Humulus? You're the most powerful of us after Master Skeeve, and you kept bawling like, well, a baby!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I had Manticore nightmares as a kid, okay?" Melvine snarled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Back off him," Pologne said, her voice rising to a shriek. "Where were you when we were working on containing that beast? Running away yourself?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee's face went pale under its freckles. "With respect, ma'am, I was following Master Skeeve's orders."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You mean, because you couldn't do magik, right? Spellfree freak!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I opened my mouth to say that Aahz had been without his magik for a few years, that he was no less formidable without it, but that wouldn't have made Pologne respect him or Bee any more than she did.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You were sure buddying up with him before," Freezia said scornfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How dare you suggest I'd make friends with a Klahd?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey," I protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the blink of an eye, the good mood had been shattered. I didn't know how I had managed to ruin it, but the camaraderie had evaporated the moment I had emptied those coins out on the table. Distrust ran wild throughout the class, even between the Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is going on here?" Bunny asked. "Ten minutes ago you were friends. What happened."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They all turned to us, as if caught in the act.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, nothing," Pologne said, too brightly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look at the time!" Jinetta said hastily. "Dinner soon! We'll go out and get supplies. I hope they still have some fresh sgarnwalds in the market at this hour, don't you, Freezia?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let me pitch in," Melvine insisted, digging in his pocket for coins.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And me, too," Tolk said. Bee opened his threadbare belt pouch and produced a couple of coppers, which he placed in Jinetta's palm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's only right," Freezia explained to me and Bunny. "Whenever I stay with friends I always buy groceries. I almost never eat up their food. And we know what you like, too. It'll be good. I promise. Bye!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Before I could reply, the three Pervects disappeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Something is up," Bunny said. She turned to the three male students. "What is going on?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing," Melvine said hastily. "Boy, I could sure use a nap." He vanished, the displaced air BAMFig behind him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gotta go walk myself," Tolk added. He scampered out of the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I, uh," Bee began then turned and quick-marched after the Canidian without finishing his sentence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny, Gleep and I were left alone in the big room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Something strange is going on here," Bunny said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think they're just tired," I replied. "Don't be so suspicious."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny narrowed an eye. ''You're too trusting. Tolk was right: Pervects never turn down free money. That's more than strange."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sighed. "They're not all the same as Aahz. I found that out when I was on Perv. Maybe there is some code among MIP students not to take gifts from their teacher. Probably one of Professor Maguffin's rules. They're always quoting him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know," Bunny said, tapping her foot on the floor impatiently. "I'm going to keep my eye on them. All of them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" Gleep announced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," I agreed, patting my pet on the head. "Me, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">If I had thought the dinner at which I made them switch main courses was awkward, this one deserved a medal for going above and beyond the call of gut-twisting, in more ways than one. Almost as if they wanted to taunt the others, the Pervects, who sat together at one end of the big table, made a point of serving their food in small bites, making sure to give everyone a good look at each slimy, purple pseudopod dripping off the spoon. As promised, the food they brought back for the rest of us was fine, even delicious, though it was harder to enjoy with the nauseating whiff of Pervish cooking overwhelming us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine sat sniveling to himself during the entire meal. "Nobody likes me. I wring myself dry for them, and they make fun of me! I'm going to run away and go home."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I thought he was expressing the unspoken sentiments of the whole group fairly well.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're all selling yourselves and each other short," I said. "You just proved what I've been trying to tell you all along: the best thing you can do is learn to work together. You find one another's strengths and supplement them. That's true whether you're trying to survive in a wilderness situation or in a high-powered company. My associates and I couldn't be beaten because no one could drive a wedge between us. When you're busy cutting each other's throats, then it's easier for someone to sneak up on YOU."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's too simple," Tolk said. He remained civil to Bunny and me, though he growled whenever the others glanced his way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's more complicated than it sounds," I said. "There are a lot of factors beyond a person's talents you have to take into consideration. Climate. Uh, personal phobias." That got a wince out of Melvine. I regretted hurting his feelings, but it was a valid statement. "Experience. Inclination. Willingness. You can be the greatest magician in the world, but if you won't get out there and try, you might as well have no magik at all."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hmmph," Pologne snorted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look," I said. "We've all been through a lot in the last few days. I don't know about you, but I need a break. Everyone just enjoy themselves this evening. We'll start on some more exercises in the morning. All right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir," Bee muttered, not raising his eyes from his plate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others murmured their assent. I threw an exasperated glance at Bunny, who shook her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After the dishes were washed, I retreated to my study and hoped they'd take advantage of my absence to argue it all out and make peace. I set up an experiment with a couple of strange metallic elements I'd come across in a Bazaar trick shop, but I couldn't concentrate on it. I found I was straining to listen to what was going on in the rest of the inn. Except for the music</div>
<div class="paragraph">and voices from Bunny's PDA in the next room, I heard nothing but furtive footsteps on the upper floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One tentative set tiptoed down the stairs, coming toward my study.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Freezia, do you want to watch Sink or Swim with me?" Bunny called out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, no, thanks, Bunny," the dainty Pervect said, almost in a gasp. I heard her feet patter back up the stairs to her room. I heard the murmur of hasty conversation above, then silence. No cheerful conversation, no joshing, no mutual admiration society. The rooms on the upper floor might as well have been vacant, except for the almost-visible waves of distrust that radiated out of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I pushed aside my experiment and sank my head into my hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">What had I done wrong? I pored over the memory of the day over and over again, but I could recall nothing that seemed even remotely like criticism or an insult. I'd lived with a Pervect for years, so I thought I knew their thresholds of intolerance, which in Aahz's case mainly had to do with me being stupid. If I did something wrong out of innocence, he was pretty good about it; if I did something inane, he would flatten me for knowing better and not thinking. I had thought about the gesture of sharing the reward, all the way back from Humulus. Was I too late? Should I have divided up the spoils sooner? Had I been too cheap? Were they looking for a larger percentage of the take? They certainly had earned it. Now they were adamantly against taking any money at all.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had run into a situation like this on Perv, when I had inadvertantly offended a friend named Edvik by offering him cash as a tip in thanks for services rendered instead of as a gift between equals. It took some fancy talking to straighten things out, the results of which got me into so much trouble that I had been ejected from the dimension permanently as persona non grata.</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was it, I told myself. I might be their teacher, but courtesy needed to extend in both directions. I promised that I would be more careful about my students' pride in the future.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_15" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36321598" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36321600" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fourteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Is anybody happy?" G. BUSH</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's like this," Bee explained for the eighth time as he pointed out the obstacle course he had designed in the inn's courtyard out of chairs, fire irons, a few pots, heaps of books and stones. "You concentrate on walking a perfectly smooth road, and when you've got it in your head, you think 'Can't trip.' Get it? 'Cantrip.'" He grinned at her. "You can't trip. But you say 'spoo.'"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I get it," Jinetta said, studying her nails. She picked a fragment of scale off her cuticle then polished her fingertips against her blouse. "In fact, I got it the first time you said it, over a week ago, and every time since then. This is beginner stuff."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee reddened. "It came in awful handy in Humulus, Tolk said."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sure to a Canidian it looks very impressive."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look, how about you try it yourself?" Bee asked, very politely. I gave him points for keeping his temper. Jinetta was doing her best to provoke him into an outburst. "I'll help you all I can."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, that's a fly-leg's worth of meat at a banquet," Jinetta observed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I didn't know Pervects ate flies," Bee said, but he kept his voice low. Jinetta snarled. One point to Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk wasn't faring much better with Pologne. She hadn't wanted to work with him, but she declared she wasn't going to work with Melvine. Tolk wasn't thrilled with the pairing, either. I ordered them to cooperate or go home.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How do I know she's any good at teaching?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How do I know you could possibly understand anything I taught?" she countered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After sitting and staring at one another for half an hour, Tolk started demonstrating a healing technique. Out of sheer boredom Pologne began to listen to him, but she nitpicked at everything he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you mean close the wound?" she asked. "'Seal' the wound sounds like you're just covering it over."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I went through an eight-year apprenticeship to learn this," Tolk growled. "Words aren't as important as deeds."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Professor Maguffin would wash your mouth out with soup for saying something like that," Pologne spat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soup? I love soup!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Weirdo!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Pervert!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I left them alone, hoping that they would eventually gain some kind of understanding, but I doubted it. They had frozen up, and nothing I did seemed to make an impression.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine and Freezia had gotten into mutual snits over his whirlwind spell, and were shrieking at each other from opposite ends of the courtyard. That had started over technique. It seemed that one of Melvine's gestures was an obscenity on Perv. I didn't know that there was a symbol for sex with multiple small animals.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was fed up with all of them. I had sat up all night trying to figure out a way to break the ice again, and now I was too tired to do anything but supervise. Once in a while I made the rounds, offering encouragement and breaking up petty arguments, but I spent most of the time in the shade on the sidelines, sipping a glass of wine. On purpose, I had not brought the bottle outside with me. It was too tempting to get soused out of sheer frustration. I'd hinted that I'd like to know what had changed the group from teammates into bitter rivals in the matter of seconds, but they all pretended they had no idea what I was talking about.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cantrip!" Jinetta shouted as she hopped up onto Bee's obstacle course for the fourth time. I felt the magik in the overhead force line surge slightly.  Everyone turned her way as</div>
<div class="paragraph">she sauntered seemingly over thin air. Her body stretched and contracted as her feet touched down lightly, but her head stayed at the same level. "Voila!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, pretty good," Bee said grudgingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was very good," Jinetta insisted. "It only took me four tries." She glanced at me. "All right, my turn." She went to pick up her buttermilk-colored briefcase.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Something useful," Bee said, looking over her shoulder. "Not like how to change the color of my nails."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta glared at him. "This IS useful, you hayseed. It's really easy." She opened her snap case and began to dig through it. "You only need a piece of paper big enough to wrap around your hand." She pulled out a spiral-bound notebook.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A loud jingle attracted all of us. I glanced down as Jinetta removed the pad and stared down at a leather bag underneath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I smell money," Tolk exclaimed. He trotted over to sniff as Jinetta opened the bag and poured the contents into her hand. I recognized them at the same time as everyone else.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Those are from Humulus," Melvine said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Jinetta protested. "It couldn't be."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It is," Tolk insisted, sticking his wet black nose right into her palm. "It's got the same scent as the money we got from Master Flink."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The tall Pervect looked outraged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who put this in my bag?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, since it locks by magik," Bee said, "I'm gonna have to assume it was you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You, Jinetta?" Freezia looked aghast. So did Pologne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You must have made a separate deal with Skeeve for pay," Tolk said. "Behind our backs!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sprang up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold it right there," I said, advancing on them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just didn't want to be seen accepting money in front of us, huh?" Melvine smirked. "So much for keeping it a teacher-student relationship."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine!" I warned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy looked up at me in horror. "It wasn't me, Teach. I swear. I didn't do it. Ask Long Tall Sally, here. Looks like she did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How dare you?" Jinetta gasped, reaching for him, nails out. He threw up a wall of fire, and she recoiled. "I did NOT put it in here. I didn't touch that money! Someone else must have sneaked it into my briefcase!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, sure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta whipped a knuckle-sized globe out of her bag. "Take that back, Cupy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine fanned out his fingers. "You make me, Pervert!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny started to get up from her spot on the grass. I waved a hand to keep her from getting into the line of fire. Gleep automatically moved to protect her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you threaten my friend!" Freezia shrieked, pointing a finger already beginning to generate sparks. Melvine cringed behind his wall of flame.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe she stole the money!" Tolk said, his brown eyes wide.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You idiot! Her father owns the biggest carriage company on Perv," Pologne snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who are you calling an idiot?" Bee asked. "You Pervects think you're so smart."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We are smart, Klahd!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I thrust myself in between them, feeling my eyebrows crisping from Melvine's spell. I dampened it with a heavy blanket of magik. "Stop it! I did not pay Jinetta anything. I didn't pay any of you anything. You turned me down, remember? Remember?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Reluctantly, the six of them muttered, "Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good," I said, firmly. "Now, go back to your exercise. You're making good progress. Keep it up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will you swear to that?" Melvine asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I spun to face him. "Swear I didn't pay any of you or make a secret deal for compensation? Yes. I swear it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">His baby face seemed to crumple with disappointment. "Well, those coins are from Humulus, aren't they?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bunny," I called. "Would you mind checking the strongbox and see if any of our reward money is missing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny rose, and Gleep trotted after her, with a backward glance to make sure I didn't need him. No one moved while she was gone. When she returned, her face was grave. "Fifteen coins are missing," she reported.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I held the bag out to her. "Here they are. I'll have to come up with a better magik lock that only you and I can open."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny took the money from me, and shot a distasteful look around at the apprentices. I knew what she was thinking. She was still convinced that there was something fishy going on.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't like this," I told them. "Playing little jokes on one another is one thing, but I won't put up with outright crime. Someone stole that money from our strongbox."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Someone set me up," Jinetta insisted furiously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know that," I said. "Either someone set you up, or you want me to believe that someone did. I even bet it's pointless for me to do a trace spell. I'm sure whoever put the money here covered his or her tracks. But I'll tell you here and now that if I catch anyone doing anything dishonest like that again, you're out of here. Got that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Skeeve," they chorused glumly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said. "Back to work."</div>
<div class="paragraph">No one moved. Their eyes darted from face to face, probably trying to figure out, as I was, who had sneaked the bag into Jinetta's briefcase, or if she had done it herself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on," I said sarcastically. "Are you waiting for an engraved invitation?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, hey, hey, are you an audience or an illumination?" a hearty woman's voice asked. "Why so silent?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha floated into the courtyard. She appeared to be carried on the shoulders of four young and good-looking courtiers dressed in Queen Hemlock's personal livery, until she sailed on beyond their grasp and settled to the ground on the toes of a pair of pointy orange silk slippers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Massha!" I went to greet her, and received one of her patent bone-crushing hugs. Bunny came over, too, and gave as good as she got.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's the silent treatment for?" she asked, looking at the group, who were now intently studying their feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A misunderstanding," I said, passing it over casually. "Welcome! Do you want to freshen up before you start your lecture?"    "No way, Hot Shot! It was a relaxing jaunt. Wasn't it, boys?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Lady Magician," they chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha elbowed me. "I'm trying to get them to sing it in harmony, but Marco there in the left back corner is tone deaf. So, how's it been going? I see Bee's still standing." The young corporal blushed crimson and kicked the dirt. Massha grinned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned back. "Let's all have a drink, and we'll give you the short version."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_16" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36321934" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36321937" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Fifteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Oops." LAST WORDS OF ANY BOMB DISPOSAL EXPERT</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, you're still in one piece," Massha said, setting down her empty mug on the little table beside the heap of cushions that her attendants laid out for her to lounge upon in Bunny's sitting room. Gleep was curled next to her feet, his long neck resting contentedly along a spare lump of cushion. "So that's what really happened! A troubador from the town came to Possiltum and sang a song about the Great Skeeve defeating a beast by turning its lightning back on it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not exactly," I said modestly, toying with my wine glass. "I just appealed to its self-interest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Most powerful force in the universe, after love," she agreed. "Hemlock was impressed. She'll laugh herself silly when she hears the real story." She surveyed my students, who sat around the cosy room on chairs or the floor. "And you all sound like you're making Master Skeeve proud. Old Massha was his first student, and look where she ended up? Happily ever after!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks for the plug," I said. "I really can't take credit for where you've gotten. That was all you. I think you're doing a better job than I ever did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't sell yourself short, Superstar! You brought out the best in me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought Hugh did that," I said innocently. Massha blushed as bright as her lipstick. I turned to my class to give her a moment to recover. "All right, individual exercises are over for the day. At the beginning I promised you guest lecturers. This will make a welcome change of pace. I think we could all use one. The Lady Magician of Possiltum has come all the way from the royal court to demonstrate something in which</div>
<div class="paragraph">she has more expertise than anyone I have ever met, including most Deveels: gadget magik."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You bet. Quintin!" she called, clapping her hands. One of the muscular, liveried courtiers ran in and knelt at her feet, presenting an enormous bag that clanked as it moved. She chuckled. "Don't you just love it when they hustle?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Adorable," Bunny agreed, waggling a couple of fingers at the page. "Hi-ya." She winked at him. The page blushed to the roots of his long pale hair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha whipped out a heavy silk cloth and left it floating in the air while she sorted through the clunking collection and laid several items out. "Here are a few of my favorites, stuff that's gotten me out of a couple of nasty situations, and a few that are just plain useful."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, come on, I've been playing with things like those since I was two," Pologne complained, flipping a couple of pieces over with her talon. "There's a wince whistle. Makes the noise from barking dogs rebound on them. And that's a stuff-sack, for getting more things into your purse."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha shrugged. "This is gonna be old hat for a few of you, honey, but I just love toys. Oh, here's a good one!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She drew out a heavily jeweled gold wand. "This one's good for changing ambience. Short range, but this room's a good size. No verbal invocation, just point and shoot." She stuck a finger in her ear and aimed the wand at the ceiling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A loud report momentarily deafened us, followed by whistles and toots. Over our heads, flower-shaped gouts of fire erupted, filling the ceiling then drifting down over us. Where the cooling sparks passed, the room shifted before our eyes. The whitewash warmed to a honey color. Framed pictures shimmered into being, along with lamps, vases, occasional tables and knicknacks, and finally a fringed rug of complicated pattern spread itself on the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I like it," Bunny said with an approving nod. "That makes the room much more cosy now. Skeeve and I just haven't really taken the time to redecorate."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Freaky!" Melvine hooted. "Instead of looking like a dreary old pub, now it looks like my granny's house!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think it's nice," Bunny said, sounding hurt.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, right," the Cupy said. He picked up the wand. "How do you make it do something about five hundred years more modern?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Turn the dial," Massha said, pointing to a ring near the base of the wand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine shot the wand toward the crystal lamp in the middle of the ceiling. BANG! Within moments, the walls were stark white again. Tapestry upholstery had changed to russet or stone-colored leather, and the wooden tables had become chrome frames with glass tops. All of the fussy ornaments had vanished, and the pictures on the walls turned to abstracts. Massha's freeform cushions assumed geometric shapes. "Much better. The other stuff made me gag."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, geometries are so downmarket," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, you don't know a thing about design," Melvine shot back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And you do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you think?" Massha asked Bunny. "It's your house."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I like this, too. My tastes are pretty eclectic. You can leave it like this. If I get bored with it, I'll redecorate. What else have you got there?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha spread her hands generously. "Take a look, kids. Try them on for size, but don't invoke anything until you check with the proprietor first. A lot of these gizmos look alike! I don't want any accidents, and I'm sure Skeeve doesn't want the place brought down on his head."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee picked up a gaudy ring with a blue stone and fiddled with it. "What's this one do, ma'am?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Alarmed, Massha plucked it out of his fingers. "Don't point that at yourself, Honeybunch. Joke ring. It fills the mouth of the person you're facing with soap suds. I think it started out as a punishment device for smart-mouthed kids. Be careful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Just because it looks pretty doesn't mean you can laugh off the results. See?" She picked up a ring with a glittering opal in the bezel. "Watch this. I got this one for saving a merchant from an Ogre he had cheated."</div>
<div class="paragraph">She turned it toward the open window and pressed inward with her fingers. A bolt of blue-white lightning shot out of the window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ho-hum, another lightning ring," Freezia yawned. "I got one for my twelfth birthday. You got taken by the merchant, too, lady. You should have negotiated better. Those cost about three gold pieces brand new. Five with the decoder wheel."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha looked crestfallen. I was furious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's enough," I said. "I shouldn't have to tell you that the Lady Magician deserves respect from you whether or not you're impressed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised my eyebrows meaningfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They took the threat. Jinetta reached for a bangle bracelet studded with rubies and began to examine it closely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Make music," Massha suggested. "Touch the jewels."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta tried one tentatively then broke into a wide grin at the tinkly sound. She began to play a tune with her fingernails. Freezia and Pologne looked over a cloisonne vase with a long neck, laughing when a snake jumped out of it. Massha showed them how to reload it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I left that one in the queen's boudoir last week. She just howled. I think she wants to plant it on visiting ambassadors."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about this?" Tolk asked, offering her a long purple plume.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It writes romance stories," Massha said. "Dunk it in hot water if you want it to get really steamy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ooh," Freezia cooed, reaching for it. "I adore love stories."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You would," Melvine sneered. "I bet you've read all of Loebis Nasus's novels."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia eyed him. "How in Perv would you know about her?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't," Melvine said hastily. "Never read a single word."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh-huh," Freezia said skeptically. "How about this belt, Massha?" She dangled a gaudy strip of gold leather studded with rutilated quartzes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Lady Magician of Possiltum settled back on her cushions with a hearty laugh. "There's a story attached to this one, kiddies! That belonged to a wizard named Polik who used it to make himself look thinner than he really was. Trouble is, it's only an illusion, and no one told the doors to believe it. He got stuck in Hemlock's privy during a state banquet, and traded it off to me in exchange for keeping silent about having to extract him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny howled with laughter. "That little blue powder room behind her throne?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the one!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you do with it?" Pologne asked pointedly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trade goods," Massha shrugged, refusing to take offense. "If I find someone who's got a treasure they don't need, we swap. It's fun. Listen, I had an idea to make this interesting. I won't tell you any more about my hoard. You take an item and figure out what it does without killing yourself or your fellow classmates here. How about it? Skeeve wanted you to try out what it's like to be working magicians. We have to do this with mystery items all the time, especially in the Bazaar at Deva. Of course, about 90% of the stuff you can buy there are fakes or toys. It's a contest. Whoever identifies the most items gets a prize. Bunny can keep score."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm on it!" my assistant declared, reaching for a pencil and a pad of paper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne grinned, showing what had to have been a few hundred gold pieces' worth of orthodontia in her mouthful of gleaming white, four-inch-long fangs. "That sounds like fun."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It can be," Massha smiled back. Her teeth were nowhere as impressive, but the feral expression more than made up for it. "Go on, give it a try!" She spilled the baubles out on the floating cloth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee goggled at the array of treasures. Gingerly, he picked up a skinny silver wand. Carefully pointing it away from all of us, he invoked it. Nothing happened. He shook it and listened to it. Still nothing. Tolk gave an excited bark and immediately ran his shiny wet nose up its length.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cures poison," he said at once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How do you know that?" Bee asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Unicornium," Tolk said, grinning. "Only element in the universe that can counteract poisons. Besides, it smells like Buttercup out there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee put the wand to his nose. "I guess it kinda smells like a horse. It's kinda hard to tell past the dragon smell. No offense, Gleep."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my pet said, the friendly expression in his wide blue eyes asserting that no offense was taken.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If it gets rid of poison, you ought to use it on that food of yours," Jinetta sneered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just because I don't eat live vermin?" Bee countered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"At least I know my food is fresh!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee almost retorted then, seeing my pointed glare, reached for another gadget, an egg-shaped chunk of glass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whoops!" Freezia exclaimed as she invoked a silver medallion and vanished from our sight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Invisibility amulet," Pologne said immediately.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nope," Massha said. "Give her a chance."</div>
<div class="paragraph">In a moment, Freezia reappeared. "Dressing room," she said, tossing the disk back onto the cushion. "I was in a kind of enclosure with hooks on the wall."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You went invisible all of a sudden," Bee said. The glass egg in his hands lit up. He gave it a speculative glance. "You were gone for hours." The egg turned black. "Lie detector," he said quickly, forestalling the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good guess," Massha praised him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The contest got going into high gear. All of my students reached for items from Massha's bag of toys, the females oohing and aahing over the jewelry. The males seemed to go for the</div>
<div class="paragraph">less-adorned gadgets. Massha had generously brought dozens of pieces. Each student played with an object for a while, turning it over looking for clues as to its function without actually invoking it, but sometimes they couldn't help it. A few of the magik items went off by themselves. At one point everyone in the room had purple fingernails, orange lipstick and screaming scarlet rouge, thanks to a powder puff that exuded a cloud of dust. The plain walls had become festooned with pairs of shoes, flowers, racks of knives and crossbows, and a huge poster of four long-haired males holding musical instruments with a signature in the corner that said, "Love is all you need forever." I was fascinated with the rest; I had never appreciated the range of her collection of swag. Massha always forestalled a student from using dangerous items, but let them have free range with the harmless stuff.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Some of these things you just invoke," Massha warned them. "Others are triggered by controls. A few have got safety catches. Be careful. Those are the most dangerous."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Of the six, Bee was the most cautious. He had seen a few of her treasures before, and identified them instantly, earning him points right off the bat. Since then he had fallen behind his companions, who could do more advanced magik-sniffing than he could. In Tolk's case, the sniffing was literal. His sensitive nose picked out obscure compounds and alloys that smelled all alike to me under a mask of Massha's powerful cologne. The Canidian was also capable of making shrewd guesses that turned out frequently to be correct. Melvine was good at figuring out some pretty obscure things like joke toys.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects could reel off IDs for every mass-produced trinket, from the Bazaar to some upscale manufactories in the far reaches of distant dimensions, and fought to be the first to call out its name. Once they exhausted those pieces, they were left almost as clueless as Bee. With regard to jewelry custom-made for Massha, almost everyone had to cry uncle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's this?" Melvine asked crankily, holding up a platinum-banded ring with a moss green, egg-shaped bezel.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha's full cheeks turned scarlet. "That was a special present to me from my sweetie, Hugh, on our first anniversary."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But you haven't been married for a year yet," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not since we married" Massha said, settling back with a satisfied air. "Since we—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too much information!" I protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She chuckled warmly. "It's a real humdinger: an incendiary grenade. That's my Hugh, always thinking in terms of mass destruction. Once a general, always a general."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Very nice," Bunny said. "Hugh has good taste. That's the kind of gift my uncle would give."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine began looking it over for controls.' 'How does it work?''</div>
<div class="paragraph">I flipped it out of his hands with a dollop of magik and put it back among the other items. "It doesn't. Try something else. So far, you've got nine points. Jinetta's ahead of you by three."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Six pairs of hands sifted through the clanking collection on the silk mat. Pologne got tangled up in a braided cord that tied her wrists together and bound every finger to the corresponding digit on the other hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's got me!" she shrieked. "Who invoked that on me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trollish finger trap," I laughed, dispelling it for her. "It works by itself. It's a practical joke. Deveel school children leave them in each other's lunch bags."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hmmph," she snorted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look at this one," Jinetta said, homing in on a burning-red jewel. "Massha, should this gem be glowing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Massha said in alarm, grabbing it from her. "Oh, no, it's the grenade! It's armed! It's going to explode!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"About fifteen seconds."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll throw it into the pond," Bee announced, pale but composed. He took the ring from Massha and made for the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The ring flew out of his hands back toward the center of the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, we have to destroy it here and now!" Pologne insisted. "Burn it—no, it's going to burn. Freeze it!" She pulled</div>
<div class="paragraph">the crystal ball out of her backpack and started scrying for information. "I know the right spell's in here somewhere."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We have to smash it!" Melvine yelled, pointing his hands at the ring. It started to spiral around in the air. "I'll crush it on the fireplace! Let me get some momentum up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Freezia exclaimed. "That will bring the inn down on our heads. Smother it with something!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"There's no time for that!" Tolk grabbed it out of mid-air in his mouth and deposited it in Massha's hand. "Can you turn it off?" he asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha fumbled fruitlessly with the controls. "No. The failsafe's been engaged."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We're going to die!" Melvine whimpered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, we aren't," I said. "Everyone calm down. Massha, let me have it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">In panic, Jinetta grabbed Massha's wrist to look at the ring. The gem was as bright as an ember now. "There must be something we can do!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everyone duck!" I barked out. I levitated the ring out of Massha's palm and sent it flying straight up the chimney. "What's the range?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"About five thousand yards," Massha said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Talk about overkill! I nodded grimly and flew out the window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">SQUAWK!</div>
<div class="paragraph">A flock of blue-and-white ducks flying overhead scattered outward as I shot up and over the roof of the inn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry!" I called. They quacked indignantly among themselves as they reformed into a vee heading north.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I scanned the sky above me for the glowing dot of red light. There it was! I pushed hard at the face of the earth with enough magikal force to send me soaring upward. I hoped no one was traveling the road below, but this close to twilight they might not notice the man-sized shadow heading towards the clouds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had no trouble following the ring through the overcast sky. The ruby-red light was just a pinpoint. I flew towards it,</div>
<div class="paragraph">hoping I was maintaining a safe distance. How far was five thousand yards? Keeping a hefty pad of magik around the ring, I shoved it higher and higher. How much longer did I have? The red light disappeared into the clouds. I made ready to follow it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BOOM!</div>
<div class="paragraph">A red globe bloomed within the cloud overhead. The sound rang in my ears. Dizzy, I lost control of my flying spell. My stomach headed for my mouth as I dropped like a stone. A wave of heat knocked me down a few hundred feet farther. In a moment I retrieved my wits and retreated hastily toward the ground. Success. The ring had detonated where it couldn't possibly hurt anyone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">While I descended, the cloud gave off another tremendous BOOM. With a roar, heavy waves of water began gushing down on me. The grenade had triggered the load of moisture in the cloud and caused it to start raining.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I grumbled at the sky. "That's what I get for being heroic."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_17" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36322466" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36322468" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Sixteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Confession is good for the soul." T. BECKETT</div>
<div class="paragraph">I descended as swiftly as I could to get under the shelter of the forest crown. In my mind I ran over the sequence of events. There was no way that explosion could have been triggered by accident. That grenade ring had a full-scale failsafe on it, not to mention a couple of safety catches to prevent it going off if Massha caught the bezel on something. I was reluctant to come to the obvious conclusion: that someone had set it off on purpose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But why? If the inn had blown up, we would all have been killed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not necessarily, I reasoned, as I landed on the side of the road. At least four of my students were proficient at instantaneous transfer between one dimension and another. In the confusion while we were trying to get rid of the bomb, the guilty party could just have BAMFed out, leaving the rest of us to be blown to smithereens.</div>
<div class="paragraph">But who?</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't look forward to figuring that one out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When I arrived back at the inn, shivering and soaking wet, I was greeted as the returning hero.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You are amazing, Master Skeeve!" Jinetta exclaimed, gathering me up into a bone-crunching hug. "You saved us!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I was so frightened," Freezia admitted, hugging me in her turn and passing me along to Pologne. Bee merely stood to attention, his freckled face pale. Tolk ambled over and stuck his nose into my palm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine wasn't completely over his sulk, but he came forward and flicked his fingers at me. My clothes and hair dried instantly. "It's an Elemental School desert spell," he said. No apology, no gratitude, but I got the message.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I said. It did feel good to be dry again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha enveloped me in folds of translucent orange silk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, Cupcake! I never dreamed the ring could go off like that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It didn't," I said shortly. I turned to my students. "Which one of you set that off? Maybe you thought it would be funny to have us running in circles."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, sir," Bee said, fervently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did you do it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No! No way, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I saw Pologne handling it last," Tolk said. "If you could get some of the pieces I could sniff them and tell you for sure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tattletale!" Pologne snarled. "That's a lie."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about you, dogface? You had your nose in everything. It could have been you!" Freezia snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me? How-how-how dare you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold it. HOLD IT!" I shouted over the sudden pandemonium. "The only person I want to hear from right now is the one who set off the ring. I don't care if you thought it was a joke. I don't care if it was an accident. Just tell me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Silence. The students all eyed one another with open distrust.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said, shrugging my shoulders. "That's it, then. I've had enough. Lady Massha, thanks for coming. Do you want to take Bee back to Possiltum with you? I'm sure he can catch a wagon or something else going toward his home town."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure, if that's what you want, boss-man."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you very much." I turned to the assembled student body. "The rest of you are on your own."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What?!?" the students asked in outraged six-part harmony.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's over," I said simply. "Girls, I'll reimburse you the remainder of your tuition. Tolk, I will make it up to Chumley somehow. Same for you, Melvine. I'll explain to Markie if she wants to drop by. I'd appreciate it if everybody was out of here by sunset. I'm sorry to say it, but I can't teach any of you any longer. Somebody is playing dangerous games."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta's eyes went wide with panic. "You can't do that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I certainly can," I said. "Someone just put us all in danger, and he or she won't admit it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, please," she begged. "Don't send us away. We need you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right," Tolk said. "Come on, Skeeve. One little explosion."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little?" Bunny squeaked indignantly. "That could have taken out half the Bazaar."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Master Skeeve, I wish you'd reconsider," Bee said. "I've learned more in a week and a half from you than from anyone I have ever known, except for Sergeant Swatter, of course. I don't know about my fellow students, but I bet we all feel the same."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others nodded vigorously.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not responsible for your feelings," I said. "I just discovered that one of you is capable of playing a nasty trick on the rest, me included, and I have no intention of giving you a second chance at it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I didn't do it!" Melvine sniveled. "Aunt Markie will kill me if you send me home!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve, we really need your help. Don't send us away now," Freezia pleaded, twining her arms around one of mine and looking up at me with big, beseeching eyes. The effect of Pervish orbs of green-veined yellow was more frightening than wistful, but the emotion behind them was clear. "What about the rest of us? One of us might be a joker, but the other five are all very sincere students, and we are really enjoying our lessons. Honestly." My resolve wavered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne attached herself to my other arm. "I know we've been touchy. I mean, I know I have. I'll keep my temper better. You're right: we have so much to learn from each other. Please, be fair."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sighed. She'd just hit me right where I live. I wanted to be fair, and punishing five for the sins of one was not. "All</div>
<div class="paragraph">right. I'll give the bomber one chance. I'll be in my study until dinner. If he or she comes around and tells me the truth, I'll reconsider. No guarantees."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We understand," Jinetta said, her head bowed. The group filed out of the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Massha clicked her tongue. "Well, my lesson sure went off with a bang. Don't worry, Skeeve," she added as I frowned. She held up her Cone of Silence amulet. "No one can hear past this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I sighed, and slumped into a chair. "I'm sorry about the ring. I know you treasured it because it came from Hugh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll get over it," she said. "I've still got the man. Trinkets don't matter. He'll find me something else just as deadly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why didn't you just send them all home?" Bunny asked, standing over me with her arms folded across her chest. "I told you something was up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This could just be an accident," I said. "Someone thought he or she would be funny, and it blew up—literally—in their face."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Or it could be an attempt to kill someone in the group," Bunny said, eying me. "You're too trusting, especially when you're the most likely target."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, who else? They're all too young to have made enemies. But you're the Great Skeeve! It's not like this is the first time a rival magician has decided to try and take out the opposition."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why me? I'm not even in the lineup right now. I'm out of the picture."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny eyed me. "Just the perfect time to take a stab at you, if you'll pardon the expression. I told you this morning I was worried. I think you ought to go to Uncle Bruce and ask for a couple of his men to watch your back. I know Guido and Nunzio would jump at the chance to help you out. They miss working with you. Both of them have said you're the best boss</div>
<div class="paragraph">they ever had. In fact, they'd do it out of friendship, no contract involved."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" I said, jumping up. "I won't impose on friends. They have another job to do. Bunny, I appreciate your concern, but I don't need outside bodyguards. I've got Gleep."</div>
<div class="paragraph">My pet raised his head from where it rested on his stubby forearms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" he announced, looking as brave as a baby dragon could.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've got you," I continued, "and my own wits."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And me," Massha added. "There's no way old Massha's going to let you twist in the wind."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you, Massha, I appreciate it, but go ahead and go home. Fortunately, you only had one exploding ring. If this was a serious assassination attempt, the perpetrator would have had his or her own bomb. This looks more like a prank or a crime of opportunity. I can try and draw whoever it is out into the open."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Assassination is not really your field, Hot Stuff," Massha reminded me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll call Tananda," Bunny said, pulling Bytina out of her purse. The little red PDA snapped open at once, and images danced off her palm-sized crystal mirror. "That IS her field."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I clapped the little device shut. "No, don't. I can handle this. Let's see if he tries again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Or she," Bunny said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whoever it is," I agreed. "Now, if you'll excuse me," I squared my shoulders, "I've got to go set a trap."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sat in my office with my back to the door. I was trying out the Manticore's stunning serum on a housefly I had caught in a glass bottle. It hadn't moved for at least five minutes by my candle. The process had taken less than a pinpoint's worth of venom. This could be a great tool—or a weapon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Footsteps approached, brushing along the flagstone floor in the corridor. My door creaked open slowly. I didn't tarn around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve?" a quiet voice said. "Can I talk to you for a minute?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Pass the potatoes, please," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Silently, Jinetta picked up the earthenware dish and handed it down the table to me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't mention it," the tallest Pervect mumbled, dropping her eyes to her bowl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny sat at the head of the table, cutting her meat into very small pieces as if she was looking for hidden explosive devices. No one spoke except to ask for food.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wasn't much of a conversationalist myself. Nothing I had done that day had turned out the way I planned it. The spell-sharing exercise had turned out to be a disaster. Someone had broken into the strongbox in an effort to frame one of the students for theft, and I still had no idea why. Massha's long-awaited demonstration had been derailed by either an attempt at assassination or a foolish mishap. I had sent my regrets back to Hugh, apologizing for the destruction of his anniversary gift to Massha and offering to replace it at my own expense. I knew that it was an inadequate gesture, but what could I do? Massha herself had forgiven me, but I had not forgiven myself. It had happened right under my nose. At the moment I was leaning toward deliberate sabotage. Replaying the events in my mind, I could see a pattern where no one had made a serious attempt to get rid of the ring-bomb. In fact, it looked to my mind's eye as though at least three of them had made efforts to keep the device from leaving the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My trap to catch the student who had set it off had failed spectacularly. Or, rather, it had worked too well. I didn't get one confession from the attempted bomber: I got five. They all confessed, everyone except Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One by one, as dusk came on, they crept into my study. With shamed faces and the utmost sincerity they all apologized for having made a stupid mistake and being too ashamed to admit it. Melvine's confession had been particularly impassioned,</div>
<div class="paragraph">which surprised me, in light of the fact that he had never taken the blame for a single thing he had ever done, but his statement was almost word for word what the others said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Look," the Cupy said, giving me a sheepish, sideways grin, "the ring was just sitting there. You know I can't keep from fiddling with things. I wanted to see what it looked like with the spell armed, so I invoked it. The bezel started glowing. Then I got curious about what the other buttons did. I played with them a little. One of them turned out to be the failsafe. I knew as soon as I touched it that was the wrong thing. I couldn't get it to turn off. I didn't know what to do. I couldn't disarm it. I couldn't throw Massha's ring out the door without admitting what I had done. I should have said something right away. Instead, I just left it on the cloth with the other jewelry. I'm sorry. Don't tell the others. I feel like an idiot already."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was puzzled. Why would five of them own up to causing a near-fatal accident when four of them, and maybe all five, had to be lying? Why did they want to stay with me so badly? For that was what they wanted, without exception.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The last to talk with me, Jinetta, had hung back at the door. "You'll keep us on, now that you know what—who the joker was. Right?" She had given me a meaningful glance then slipped off into the dim hallway. Her confession had sounded as sincere as the others, all of which I now doubted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny and I now really suspected Bee, who was looking mournful. As soon as the meal was finished, he sprang up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll do the dishes, Miss Bunny," he volunteered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others listlessly took on the other chores. Pologne went for the broom and pan. Freezia cleaned the table. Even Melvine pushed the benches back under the edges of the table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I cleared my throat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've, uh, decided," I began. The students whirled to face me. "I've decided you can stay. I've had a talk with the, er, perpetrator."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hurray!" Melvine whooped, sailing into the air and zooming around the ceiling like a flannel-clad bumblebee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold the happiness," I said. "This is provisionary. I will go on with the lessons if, and only if, there are no more near-death experiences and no more thefts. I want the six of you to start getting along again the way you did in Humulus. Is that clear?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, Skeeve!" they chorused. Even Bee cheered up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny's eyebrows rose to frame the question that she did not ask out loud: why?</div>
<div class="paragraph">I hated to admit the truth even to myself: I didn't want to fail. I had taken on this class. I saw their misbehavior as a failure on my part to express my wishes and make them stick. I would have to be very clear from that moment on to let them know everything I wanted from them. On the other hand, I could hear in my head the voice of my mother, who had been a teacher, and a good one, all her adult life.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And if they stick beans up their noses, will you feel responsible because you didn't tell them not to?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't know. I might. But I had to try. The students, and my own self-esteem, were counting on me.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_18" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36322882" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36322884" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Seventeen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Tag, you're it!" B. V. RICHTOFFEN</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aaaarroroooorrraaaaagghh!''</div>
<div class="paragraph">A huge, purple form came rushing into the courtyard where I was teaching advanced levitation. It bore down upon the cluster of students who were holding themselves above the ground and a variety of objects at different levels around them. Bee immediately lost focus and fell heavily to the flagstones. Melvine took off for the top of the trees. Tolk let out a whimper of pleasure and started swimming through the air toward the being.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects screamed then, seemingly caught in mid-shriek, raised their hands as if they were calling the spirits of the dead. The purple form was hoisted into the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I say!" it exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley. I chuckled. "Let him down, girls! It's my friend Big Crunch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He is?" Jinetta asked. "Oh! Of course it is. I am so sorry, Mr. Troll. Permit me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll do it," Pologne snapped out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you want," the tallest Pervect said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Troll was lowered gently to the ground. I was reasonably pleased. That exchange had even passed for civility.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The preceding week had tried my patience in more ways than one. I had gained no more insight on who was responsible for the explosion. Bee was still my major suspect, which I based on the absence of a confession and the fact he was the only one of the six who might ever have had close experience with ordnance weapons. General observation would have made him the last person I should ever have considered. He continued to be polite, hard-working and cooperative.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So had the others. In fact, each one was determined to show me that he or she was THE most cooperative, willing and hard-working pupil who had ever lived anywhere in the universe. Unfortunately that cooperation still didn't extend to one another. The distrust had taken firm hold, and refused to be detached. Even the Pervects were beginning to keep one another at arm's length. It distracted me from being able to concentrate. My lesson plan began to look like a dance chart, making sure none of them spent too much time with any of the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Instead, they all made efforts to spend as much time as possible with Bunny or me. Each clamored for private instruction and practical training from me. I ran through all the ideas I could glean from my own experiences, and not a few I stole from the shows on the Crystal Network, like having them extract a fragile glass bubble, intact, from a nest of horned weaselsnakes without getting bitten. As usual, each tackled the tasks in different ways. The Pervects still tended to go for the academic approach, but I was pleased to see that more frequently than ever they put aside the books and tried to analyze the situation in the real world. Bee looked at everything from a logistics and supply point of view. I thought his solution was the most elegant of all, setting out the weaselsnakes' favorite prey at a distance from the nest, and retrieving the bubble at his leisure. Tolk tried to make everything his friend, disastrous in the experiment with shield-hornets, but very successful in getting the local townsfolk to lend him enough ingredients to make a pan of scones. Melvine whined and complained a lot, but away from the distraction of others he buckled down. He really was as smart as Markie thought he was. His easy command of magikal force had made him lazy. Once he stopped blasting everything full force, he became more effective. The surgical precision with which he whisked the glass ball out of the snake nest was a beautiful sight to behold. I wished the others had been there to see it, or even evinced</div>
<div class="paragraph">the most remote interest in hearing my recitation of Melvine's success.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were scrupulously polite at meals, and each vied to take over Bunny's chores. It had escalated to the point where the Pervects had fought over cleaning the windows and ended up making new curtains for all of the inn's many casements. Melvine had made it a matter of honor to seal up every crack in the old building's walls, to the point where the inn was now virtually airtight. When the front door slammed, all of our ears popped. Tolk weeded the garden and 'healed' all the plants of black spot and wilt. The vegetables grew visibly larger after that. Bee inventoried everything not indicated as private property in the neatest handwriting I had ever seen. For the first time, I knew that Isstvan had left me nineteen and a third kegs of beer, four hundred and fifty-three bottles of indifferent wine and eight bottles of wine so good it should be saved for coronations, and three well-hidden casks of hard spirits. I was glad I hadn't known about all of that in my dipsomaniac phase. Bunny enjoyed the leisure to an extent, but told me privately she was getting bored having nothing to do. She spent more and more time each day communicating with her friends through Bytina.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The practical jokes had gone on in a minor way. I was sorry I hadn't given them my mother's lectures on beans up their noses, because each time I had forbidden a certain behavior, they came up with something else that didn't violate any of the previous rules. One night someone had short-sheeted all of the students' beds. Whoever the troublemaker was had learned to include everybody in the prank, including him or herself. When I forbade apple-pie beds, then everybody's clean clothes turned up tied in wet knots. That morning's exercises had been conducted in pajamas and bathrobes. At no time were my or Bunny's things disturbed, and nothing else of ours went missing. I suppose I could have put the annoyances down to the usual social interaction between young people, but I couldn't, not after the exploding ring incident.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The cold war also, I was glad to note, did not extend to guests. Tolk galloped up to the Troll and romped in a circle at his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Chumley, Chumley, Chumley, how are you? I'm so glad to see you! Where have you been? You smell like vanilla!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Crunch busy. Tolk good?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I get it!" the Canidian replied, wheeling on his rear legs and dashing the other way. "I'm fine. Skeeve's fun. Everything is exciting. I'm learning so much!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good." Chumley lumbered up to me. He was maintaining his identity as the enforcement-Troll, Big Crunch. I had dropped in on him on Trollia to make the arrangements out of the hearing of my students so that Chumley could communicate his intentions to me in words of more than one syllable. Only Tolk was in the know about Chumley's alter ego. "All ready."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Great! Everybody lower what you're doing, and come over here," I called. The Pervects descended daintily to the ground, setting the objects they had been levitating with equal delicacy. Melvine bounced his items off the wall and into the basket from which they had come, and floated over to survey Chumley at eye level.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How's it going?" he said, though his voice squeaked. "I wasn't scared by you, no sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned to myself. He'd shot up eight yards when the Troll had come charging out of the woods. I covered my amusement with a loud a-HEM! Everybody gave me their attention.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want all of you to welcome this week's guest lecturer," I said. "Big Crunch is well known for his skills at protecting clients or a client's interests. He has guarded kings, business tycoons and leading entertainers. He's safeguarded everything from castles down to mud huts, and designed alarm systems that have foiled some of the best thieves in the guild. He's been a bouncer at some of the finest establishments throughout the dimensions." Chumley nodded modestly at this recitation of his accomplishments. "One</div>
<div class="paragraph">of the most valuable lessons I have ever learned from him was how not to underestimate an opponent. It's easy to make judgements based on looks alone. A poisonous snake doesn't look like much more than a piece of angry clothesline, but the bite can kill. Naturally, Crunch isn't much for lecturing," I stopped to clear my throat. Chumley himself was an exceedingly literate gentleman. "His instruction will be a practical exercise. We have a whole building and the surrounding forest at our disposal. Gleep and I will keep a lookout for any approaching parties of Klahds so you won't be observed. Your object for today is not to be caught and, if possible, catch Big Crunch. If Crunch catches you, you have to come back here and stay in Bunny's sitting room until lunch time. If you catch him, the game's over. That's all. Got it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sounds lame," Melvine said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley reached out with a massive purple paw and patted the Cupy so hard he bounced off the ground. "Little man easy to catch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yeah, hairball?" Melvine sneered. "We'll see about that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I pulled a whistle out of my belt pouch. "Everybody ready? At the signal, hide!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">PHWEET!</div>
<div class="paragraph">By the time I put the whistle back in the pouch, not an apprentice was to be seen in the courtyard. Melvine had vanished with a loud displacement of air. The Pervects split up and flew off in three different directions. Bee took off running in a zig-zag pattern. Tolk simply galloped into the trees. Chumley tipped me a wink of his big, moon-shaped eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wish me luck," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A book open on my chest, I lounged in the comfortable crook of a tree limb that overhung the north end of the road that led past the inn. I'd been there for over an hour. During that time I had seen most of my students creeping by, trying to skirt the central area of the woods where loud crashing noises seemed to indicate that Chumley was stomping around, seeking his</div>
<div class="paragraph">prey. I knew better than to make an assumption like that, but I enjoyed seeing the intent looks on the faces of my students.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When I was a boy, my friends and I used to play "Demon In the Dark," where one person was chosen as the Demon, hunting down all the others and 'killing' them. Your heart pounds in your chest when you think you hear someone sneaking up behind you. It was hard not to shout out when the Demon grabbed you and hauled you away to wherever the holding area was, usually someone's cellar or a stall in a handy stable. We would always laugh hysterically when it was all over, as much out of relief from the tension as from the fact that it was a lot of fun. My students didn't seem to see the fun in playing the game with a real life Demon, or dimension traveler, as I now understood the philological origin of the word. All of them looked deadly serious, even frightened, as they tried to keep away from Chumley. He was making it easy on them, crashing around like a charging bull. From where I sat I could see a couple of the trees he had pushed down across the road, just shouldering his way through the undergrowth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, silence fell. I grinned. Chumley's secret weapon had just gone into play. I wondered if any of them would remember what I had said. The biggest mistake they all made was assuming that just because Chumley had come charging in like an avalanche, that meant he couldn't move any other way. I was almost ashamed of them, after the detailed introduction I'd given him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A wild yell from the depths of the forest told me that he had just captured a student. I couldn't tell who it was by the shrill screech of surprise. I knew I could just go back to the inn and see who was sulking in the sitting room with Bunny. Oops, there went Tolk, galloping on all fours over the pathway. So it hadn't been him. I settled down to read a few pages.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked up at the sound of rustling grass. Not far from my coign of vantage, Pologne sat on a large rock painting her nails. I sighed. It was a good illusion, but I could tell easily</div>
<div class="paragraph">that it WAS an illusion. The image wasn't making any noise. That wasn't going to fool Chumley. I glanced around for the real Pervect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Moving twigs on the other side of the clearing gave her away. She had dug herself in behind a hollow tree, hoping to surprise Chumley. I imagined she hoped to capture him single-handedly. I had no idea how she thought she'd accomplish that, without the physical strength to subdue him or even a rope to tie him up. I imagined that at least a few of the others, most likely Bee among them, had similar intentions, and were laying traps instead of merely trying to avoid detection and capture.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine came flitting through, just ahead of the crashing noises. He saw Pologne sitting on the rock. I could see an evil grin spread on his face. He doubled back into the woods and came out with a handful of red tree-buds. He flicked one at the back of the Pervect's head. She never blinked. The acorn clattered to the forest floor. The evil grin grew wider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It had been dry that day. Melvine had no trouble kicking up a miniature whirlwind that raised enough dust to fill the clearing. Too late, Pologne saw that something was up. The dust collected itself and surrounded her like a cloud. She started coughing uncontrollably. Feeling blindly around the ground, she located a rock and heaved it in Melvine's general direction. He bobbed out of reach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nyah NYAH nyah!" he taunted. The minicyclone whisked across the forest floor and went up the leg of Pologne's shorts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You little monster!" she shrieked, dancing around. She batted at her pants until the little wind dropped out again and skittered away. Magnificent in her fury, she stalked toward Melvine and pointed a hand at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Too late. A purple-furred hand, a dozen times the size of her own, snaked out of the underbrush at her back, and clapped over her mouth. The other appeared and dragged her into the bushes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine looked astonished for a moment, then gleeful. He flitted off into the woods again, no doubt to see if he could get any other fellow students snagged, at no risk to himself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When we broke for lunch, the sour expression Tolk shot at the Cupy suggested to me that Melvine had had one more success. At the far end of the table, Melvine was bragging to Bunny how he lured Tolk into his own leaf-covered pit, from which Chumley had hauled him out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Isn't he being unfair, Master Skeeve?" Tolk demanded, slamming a paw down on the edge of his plate of green meat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes and no," I said, swiftly fielding the cold gobbets of flesh with a small net of magik. I put them back on his plate. I'd had plenty of time to think about it while guarding the road. "On the one hand, Melvine's not being a team player, but that should come as no surprise to you. He hasn't shown a lot of loyalty to the group."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey!" Melvine protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"On the other hand, his behavior is fair because in the field you are going to have outside distractions. Pologne, you forgot you had an objective out there. Melvine exploited your temper by picking on you. You fell for it and forgot to be vigilant. That's not his fault."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I should have ignored him pitching acorns at me?" she asked, her yellow eyes molten gold with anger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Probably." I shrugged. "It was childish of him, but your reaction didn't do you any credit."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I suppose that kind of thing never happened to you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wrong," I said coolly. "It happens to me all the time. Any of my friends will tell you that I have gotten distracted often, but I try not to let it jeopardize my mission. Or I try to turn the situation around and make a winner out of my mistake. Most of the time you can, if you try. Don't make the assumption that I'm trying to pass myself off as perfect. That's not why you came to me, is it? You came because you want to know what's effective. Let me tell you, nothing teaches you faster than making mistakes. Freezia, you and Bee got tagged because you didn't hear Crunch sneaking up behind you. You knew he could move silently, because he arrived here without having alerted everybody else for miles around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He just made noise when he got here. And did I mention his skills at surveillance?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," they all chorused peevishly. I nodded. My point had been made.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He didn't catch me," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Root cellar," Chumley announced. "Not have time before lunch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh!" The Pervect's eyes flew wide open.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Or me," Melvine added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Got you once," Chumley said. "Left. Yes?" he asked Bunny.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. Melvine broke jail," Bunny said. "I think you caught him first, didn't you, Big Crunch?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cheater!" Pologne sneered at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whiner!" Melvine gibed back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop it!" I said. "Let's start over this afternoon. Everyone's out of jail again. This time, keep your mind on your task. Give Crunch something to worry about."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thus challenged, the six students stalked out of the inn like gunfighters heading for a showdown. Chumley stayed at the table long enough to finish one more cup of tea, dabbed at his lips with a napkin, then rose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Better go see what they've thought up, what?" he asked cheerily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The twilit sitting room smelled strongly of wet Troll. Chumley sat in front of the fire wringing his fur out into a bucket while my six pupils sat looking as smug as cats fed an exclusive diet of canary.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Four times?" I asked one more time to make sure I'd heard it correctly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," the Troll said. I couldn't tell if he was speaking as Big Crunch, or as Chumley himself being terse.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They threw you in the pond four times?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not say again!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to the class. "I'm impressed. How did you do it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three Pervects glanced at one another. Finally, Jinetta spoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, you said to give Crunch something to worry about. Freezia here realized that none of us could take him on by ourselves."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So. You decided to work together?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Was that against the rules?" Tolk asked, his big brown eyes sad.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not at all!" I said. Inwardly, I was pleased. Whatever it took to get them cooperating again. Chumley's pride would heal. "Let's hear the details."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, he caught Pologne again," Jinetta began. "But before he could get her back to the inn, we devised a little trap."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Little!" Chumley exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Bee really designed it," Freezia said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It wasn't much," Bee said modestly. "Just a deadfall attached to a rope sling with a sled made out of branches that catapulted its load into the pond. Very simple, really. Tolk tied all the knots."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I almost fell in the water with him," Pologne said excitedly. "After that, I came up with another surprise. It was easy after the first one, because all I had to do was dig a shallow pit and cover it with leaves so it looked like a trap. Then we draped a tarpaulin in between a couple of rocks on the bank and covered them with dirt and roots so it looked like the path continued around that way. And he fell right in!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">By now, Chumley's head was hanging in shame.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then, we levitated him over—" Melvine began. I held up a hand to halt his narrative.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I understand," I laughed. "We don't have to relive every one of the splashes." Melvine looked disappointed. I turned to Chumley. "Big Crunch, I think your seminar has been a huge success."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"More than huge," Chumley mumbled. "They did good job."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Top marks," I said. "Everybody, take the evening off. You've earned it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk dashed to the door then back to Bee. "I'm taking a walk! Come with me!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The young soldier scrambled up from his bench. "Why not? Permission to go walkies, sir?" ?   "Granted," I said. "Have fun."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about you?" Tolk asked the Pervects.         '</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's very nice of you," Pologne said, "but I'm just dying to have a hot bath."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay okay okay! Tomorrow?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe. Thanks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia approached Pologne almost shyly. "I noticed your manicure got snagged while you were stringing up those nets. I'm going to do my nails. Would you like to use my buffer?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes!" Pologne exclaimed, clearly grateful for the detente.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then we can try on each other's clothes," Jinetta said. "I think you'd look lovely in my new twinset, Freezia. I know it'll be a little long on you, but that's the style this season, you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That is so nice of you, Jinetta!" Freezia beamed. "I love that sweater set." They bustled toward the stairs. The exchange didn't have the warm friendliness that they had arrived with some weeks before, but it was less tinged with fear and distrust than some of their earlier exchanges.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I thought they'd never leave," Melvine said. He stumped out of the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley let out a low whistle. "That's a formidable lot you have there, old scout. Particularly when they do put their minds to it to work together."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, it is," I said. "It's a shame they'll never see each other again when they leave."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The girls will," Bunny said. "But I've noticed they really shine when they add their talents to the guys'."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "I may suggest they join forces, but they have to go their own ways. It's a shame, if you ask me. They could put their mark on the world."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Chumley eyed me with amusement. "Someone to assume the mantle of M.Y.T.H., Inc., perhaps?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned back. "Don't give ME any ideas, Chumley. I'm still trying to make up my mind what I want to do when I grow up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Late that evening, I went to look out at the stars. I had been enjoying the company, but the wide open night sky reminded me I occasionally craved solitude. Sometimes I liked it when it was just me and the universe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hard-scaled head came and thrust itself underneath my palm. I grinned and scratched behind Gleep's ears. Just me, the universe and my dragon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gleep's head twisted around, and he let out a low growl in his throat. A moment later I heard scratchy footsteps.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh, Skeeve, can I talk to you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I relaxed. "Sure, Bee. What is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, sir," the figure moved closer. Bee's homely face, blue in the faint starlight, looked concerned. "I notice you've been watching me pretty closely, and I think you must be disappointed. I wonder if you think I ought to stay or not. I don't think I'm living up to your expectations."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't have any expectations," I said, surprised. Then I stopped. That wasn't quite true. "Yes, I have been watching you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Permission to ask why, sir?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I decided to lay my cards on the table. "Massha's ring. I have been thinking you blew it up."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, sir? You said that the perpetrator apologized to you, and that the matter was settled."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not exactly," I said. "All five of the other students came forward and said they had set it off. You were the only one who didn't."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But I didn't blow up the ring, sir," Bee said, sounding puzzled. "Why would I confess if I didn't do it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was taken aback. Why indeed? Why had the others been so quick to assume responsibility? I had to think about that. I</div>
<div class="paragraph">believed Bee's protestation of innocence. I felt ashamed of myself for my assumption.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're right," I said. "I wouldn't expect you to take the blame for something you didn't do. I'm sorry if I gave you the impression I suspected you. No, you're doing fine. I don't want you to leave, unless you're unhappy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, no, sir," Bee said. "This is the best thing that ever happened to me since I was born, except for meeting Sergeant Swatter and Nunzio."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everything's okay," I assured him. "You're doing fine. I'm proud of the progress you're making."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee stood up straighter, if such a thing was possible. "Thank you, sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He spun on his heel and marched back into the inn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stayed out for a while longer with Gleep and the stars.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_19" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36323467" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36323469" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Eighteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I don't want to talk about it." G. GARBO</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're pinned to the wall," Markie taunted Pologne. The Pervect clung to the wall behind her, quailing from the tiny figure at her feet. Markie advanced on her, hands curled into claws. "You have no options left. I'm coming for you, and I'm packing serious magikal heat. What are you going to do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do I have my purse?" Pologne asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie dropped out of her threatening pose, which, when a being stands less than three feet tall and has a head full of soft golden curls, was not threatening in any traditional sense.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you normally carry your purse everywhere, then, yes, you have your purse."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good," Pologne said. She reached into the capacious handbag, whipped out a shiny silver four-foot-long gun and leveled it. I pulled Bunny down to the floor. The rest of my students hit the dirt. Markie walked up to the Pervect and knocked the barrel toward the ceiling. She aimed a finger at the Pervect's nose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Never, and I mean never, point that at anyone you don't plan to shoot. And never whip out a weapon like that unless you are planning to use it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, but I would," Pologne said. But she sounded doubtful. She caressed the barrel. Studded with blue gemstones, it looked like it was made of solid platinum. Since I never carry anything larger than a pocket knife, I had no idea what the bulges and protrusions meant. I guessed that neither did Pologne.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie seemed to have the same impression. She planted her tiny hands on her hips. "Have you ever shot that thing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne looked horrified.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, it would mess up the finish. Isn't it pretty? Daddy gave it to me as a graduation present."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie sighed. "Then leave it at home. Hasn't Skeeve ever told you that hesitation just hands a weapon to your enemy?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, he has, but we don't have any enemies!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie raised an eyebrow. "The universe is full of danger, sweet pea. What happens when you move into your first sixth-floor walkup, and a drunken jerk who lives on four staggers over to you in the laundry room?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, I would never be in any place like that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," Markie said. "That's good."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That is?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes. You wouldn't be in a situation like that because you have planned ahead. You would have checked out the entrances and exits, and kept your eye on the door, right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Pologne said. "I mean, I wouldn't live in a sixth-floor walkup because no elevator means it's a dump. Right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie groaned. "Think of it in more general terms. You can apply those rules to any situation. You already know what you think of as an acceptable scenario. Let's dissect the state of mind which led you not to be in that apartment in the first place. You want a place to live. You assess where you need to be, what geographical points you need to be near. Add in your personal level of risk, balance that against your cash in hand, tolerance of noise and other nuisances, and so on. That will kick out a list of things you can avoid while still leaving the field open for the greatest number of viable choices, including some you might not have considered at the outset. When you leave out the undesirable factors, only your personal prejudices and preconceived notions would prevent you from seeing all the possibilities."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ah," Jinetta said. "When you break down the analysis in those terms, we understand it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie whistled. "Finally! Do you see? The idea is not to leave yourself without options in any situation. Choosing an apartment is a scenario you can take at your own pace. Now,</div>
<div class="paragraph">let's move up to one where you don't have as much time to make a decision. That's what I was trying to get you to do. Assess the situation with a cool head, and move quickly in response. You know the old saying, 'he who hesitates is lost'?" The students nodded. "That statement is true most of the time. It only means life and death once in a while. It can be simpler than that. If there is, say, only one item of value to be had, or one opportunity to be taken, and you have a rival for either, then allowing your rival to move first is essentially letting him or her choose the battleground. Make the first approach, and you will win. Most of the time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Like when there's only one slice of pizza left," Melvine said flippantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie looked impatient at her nephew's interruption, but she nodded. "Define a contest on your terms. I assume most of you, like Pologne, have some kind of protection, magikal or otherwise?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course!" Tolk exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Keep it as a last resort. Magik and weapons are limited options. Your brain is your most valuable and reusable commodity. Don't waste your resources or your allies. You might need them later."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Allies?" Freezia asked. "Skeeve is always hammering away about allies. He doesn't much say how to do it on your own."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's because it's a lot harder to get by on your own," Markie said. "I work alone. I get paid top dollar for my services because I deal in a difficult field with considerable expertise, entirely as a solo act. It would be a lot easier if I had allies, but in my job they are not only hard to find, but a liability."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just what IS it you do?" Jinetta asked, curiously. "Kill people?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hardly ever. Never mind what I do; I'm telling you how I think. If I'm echoing anything Skeeve says, then maybe you should listen to both of us. Otherwise, what are you wasting my time for?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I hope we're not wasting your time, Miss Markie," Bee said politely. "I see a thread running through the lessons. But when I go home, I'm gonna be working by myself as a village magician. I've got to know the best choices to make, because I'm gonna have to make 'em without help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take the big picture. What is going to help me live to a ripe, old, healthy, stinking rich age?' Try not to tell me you're not thinking in that direction, because everyone except saints do, and saints are a very small proportion of the population, in my experience. You want the best possible outcome for the long run. Then refine it all the way down to the small picture, to that action you need to take at that moment in order to get to the big picture. Sound hard?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, ma'am."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It gets easier and faster to make those decisions after a while, once you've refined your priorities. And just because you choose those priorities doesn't mean you can't change them." She glanced up at me, almost shyly. "I have."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But how do you practice making quick decisions?" Jinetta asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie grinned. "I thought you would never ask."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on!" Markie cried, beckoning with both tiny hands. "Don't stand there taking turns like a lot of well-mannered movie ninjas! Jump in! There's only one of a kind! Get them before I can! Kettle! Flower pot! Face powder! Poker!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was on my lips to ask what a 'movie ninja' was, when I had to duck or get beaned by the fireplace poker flying through the air toward the waiting hands of Pologne. Tolk leaped up to snag it in his teeth. Bee forestalled him by diving to the floor underneath it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Dispell!" he shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The poker dropped toward his waiting hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a wicked grin, I twitched the poker away. ?     "Ha-HA!" I chortled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No fair!" Bee said, but he was grinning, too.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too late!" Markie cried, having secured both the flower pot and the kettle in spite of the others' best efforts. She planted her small form in front of them. "Now, get the item when I call your name. Freezia, basket! Tolk, wood! Bee, pen! Melvine, armchair!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk galloped to snag a piece of wood off the pile beside the huge fireplace. Bee pointed at the pen on the little table near the front door. His face ran with sweat. The quill wobbled into the air and started to crawl towards him. Freezia simply ran over and snatched it out of the air. She stuck her tongue out at the young soldier. Bee never hesitated, but ran to tug the chair down out of Melvine's hands. The Cupy guy swung in the air like a grumpy pinata.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You jerk, that's mine!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's yours if you can hang onto it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mine!" Markie sang out. While they were arguing, she snagged it with a thread of magik. It joined the growing pile of household goods behind her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Just as quickly, I reached for the kettle, sitting forgotten on the floor. It caught Markie's leg. She went flying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Opportunity!" I shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta's eyes went wide. "Everybody! Now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The class rushed toward the heap of possessions. Things started to leap around as a few of the apprentices employed levitation, gusts of wind and ropes of power to yank them toward one student or another. Pologne had armloads of items piled into the basket. Bee and Jinetta glared at each other over a teddy bear. I got into the fray with the rest of them. I grabbed the flower pot and tucked it under my arm while I air-lifted the armchair, a box of candy, ten books and a cushion.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gonna do some reading?" Tolk grinned at me as he seized the cushion in his teeth. "Rrrrr-rr!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gimme that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No way!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">While we engaged in a tug of war, someone relieved me of the candy and the flower pot. I let go of the cushion to fly a footstool, a retort and a stuffed beniguana to me. Freezia charged me to take the beniguana. I managed to juggle the booty in the air while keeping her at bay. Melvine got into a war of the weather with his aunt. The two of them turned into whirlwinds that careened around the room, vacuuming up items. The rest of us just tried to stay out of their way.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The younger Cupy was by far the more aggressive. He kept trying to back his aunt into corners. Markie outmaneuvered him, the tip of her miniature tornado flicking past him just when he thought she was trapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aarrgh!" he grunted, backing up several feet. "It's clobbering time!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Cupy doll skated insouciantly around the room, sucking up a hatstand here, a pail there. She deposited them with the others then settled in front of the heap to guard it. Melvine's tornado seemed to gather itself in a coil like a snake, and drove straight past her, heading for the stash.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" Markie's voice called, from the center of the driving winds. "Don't cross the streams!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Too late! Melvine's contrail intersected with his aunt's. The tornadoes spiraled around one another in a braid that staggered blindly around the room. In the confusion, the face powder was knocked open, blinding all of us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the white-out, or rather, pink-out that followed, I grabbed for items that hit me as they went by. Books, rolls of tapestry, a beer mug. I'd hold onto them, and just as quickly they would be whisked away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When the dust, or dusting powder, settled, I found myself in the corner, wiping my eyes. Melvine lay on the floor, sneezing uncontrollably. Pologne hung from the chandelier by her heels. Tolk lay upside down in the empty scuttle. Freezia and Bee seemed to be intertwined under the big table. Jinetta was nowhere to be seen.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Scuffing noises came from the door of my study. Jinetta crawled back into the room, her couture outfit all askew.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm all right," the tallest Pervect announced, rising to pat down her clothes and dust off face powder which rose in clouds from her garments. "Ker-CHEW!" she sneezed. "Goodness, I don't know what hit me!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think it was me," Melvine groaned. He rolled to his side and stood up. "You've got hard ribs!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now," Markie called to us from the top of a heap consisting of every piece of movable property in the room, "wasn't that fun?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fun?" Freezia groaned. "Get off me, you Klahd."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry, ma'am," Bee said. He scrambled up and offered her a hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay, everyone take five," Markie said. She climbed down from the pile of furniture, marched over and stuck the pen into my tunic front. "Nice job."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lunch in a few minutes, if you all would like to wash up," Bunny said, coming into the main room from the kitchen. Savory smells, and a few not so savory, followed in her wake.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know I would," I said cheerily. "Class dismissed!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, that was the waste of a morning," Pologne whispered to Freezia as they headed toward the steps. "The last part was kind of fun, but useless." Pologne giggled her agreement. They glanced back at me to see if I had heard. I pretended not. I was disappointed. I hoped that Markie's seminar would make them think. By the thoughtful look on her face, Markie had heard them, too. I hurried to assure her I thought the morning was worthwhile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was really amazing," I said. "I had never broken down the whys and wherefores of making the first move— and the last move. I do a lot more on instinct than I realized. You've given me a lot to think about."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You were terrific, too," Markie said, whisking the remaining powder out of the upholstery and back into the round box. "I'm impressed with how much you've improved since I saw you. I like how you economize on power expenditure. That's some sophisticated manipulation of magikal force there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook my head. "It's nothing compared with what you did. You're good. You played them like fish. Your control far outstrips anything I can do. Remember, I never saw you use your magik on purpose before. All the spells you cast while you were staying with us looked like accidents caused by a little girl with the power of an insane dragon."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" Gleep protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry, Gleep. I didn't mean all dragons are insane." I reached over to pat him on the head. One of the pieces of firewood was still lying on the floor. I slung it across the room for him. Cheerfully, he rose and trotted over to retrieve it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know what it must have been like for all of you," Markie said ruefully. "But seriously, Skeeve, I had no idea you would progress this fast. At this rate there are no limits to what you can achieve. When you hit the big time, remember, I knew you when."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," I laughed. "IF I hit the big time, I'll remember all the little people who made it possible."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Was that a short joke?" Markie asked, narrowing one eye at me playfully.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Better than the nonstop mutual admiration society you two were forming," Bunny said, breaking in impatiently. She turned to Markie. "Will you stay for lunch?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a peace offering. I held my breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd love to," Markie replied warmly. "May I have something to drink? That was a lot of work."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was exciting," Bunny replied. "Almost like one of the games I scry in my PDA."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're a crystal fan?" Markie asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I knew they'd found a bond.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll get some wine," I said, and hurried down to the cellar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When I returned with two sloshing pitchers, it was clear that I had been the main subject of conversation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve, Bunny told me all about what happened a couple weeks ago," Markie said, her tiny face serious. "I agree with</div>
<div class="paragraph">her. I think the so-called 'gag' with that grenade was meant to take you out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't agree," I said. "What good would it do anyone?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A notch in someone's belt is a good enough reason. Take it from me. I know all the excuses people give for hiring me. You're temporarily out of the picture. Who wants you out permanently?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No one!" I protested then hesitated. I was sure I had tied up all of my loose ends when I took my sabbatical. Bunny had assured me her uncle was only disappointed, not angry, that I had stepped away from protecting his business interests. There had been a lot of people I had tangled with in the past, but most of them understood that it was business, not personal. I'd done my best to make sure I parted with everyone else on civil if not cordial terms. I shook my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe it isn't you who is the target, but these apprentices are all kids. What value is there in seeing one of them out of the picture? Which one of them is worth killing innocents as collateral damage? You know, if you hadn't gotten rid of that bomb and it detonated unobserved, it would have destroyed not only the inn but half the forest. Have you really checked out these students? Do you really know who they are?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They were all brought to me by people I trust," I said, surprised.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe it's your ex-partner," Melvine said, popping into the room. He sauntered over and helped himself to wine. "It wouldn't be the first time someone's ex-partner took him out, for money or just to take care of unfinished business. At least, that's what I see in the Magik Lantern pictures."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie blinked out of existence and reappeared on the other side of the room beside her nephew. She slapped him soundly upside the head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey!" he whined. She shook a finger at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You watch who you are speaking to in that disrespectful fashion. This is Skeeve, whom I trust a lot more than I trust</div>
<div class="paragraph">you. He built a magikal business with contacts you just wouldn't believe. He was trusted by Don Bruce with his most precious operations, and by plenty of others who had plenty to lose."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but he isn't doing it any more," Melvine said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm just on vacation," I gritted out, saying something even I wasn't sure was true. Yet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh. Well, that isn't what it sounds like when you and Miss Bunny talk."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's it," Markie breathed in a very quiet voice that sounded like the first quiet rumblings of an approaching earthquake. I was once again reminded that she, too, had been at Elemental School. "I'm taking you back to Cupid to learn a little respect. You have been eavesdropping on him?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—er—" Melvine looked very guilty and frightened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stepped in. "It's not that big a deal, Markie," I said soothingly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The little round face hardened. "Forgive me for contradicting you, Skeeve. You were good to me when I didn't deserve it, and you gave me respect even when I did not earn it. I admire that, as I told you. I was hoping Melvine could pick up a few lessons in decency as well as control. I am saying that this young imbecile is showing that he's forgotten even that amount of training in basic manners, and he needs remedial classes to correct that failure."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Now the younger Cupy was sweating. Perhaps Markie was right, but it sounded as though the punishment she was threatening far outstripped what I saw as a minor infraction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, Markie. It's not as though this place is soundproofed. Anyone could have overheard us if they tried. The Pervects* hearing is so sensitive, I bet they wouldn't have to come all the way downstairs to hear us talking."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"See?" Melvine said. "He doesn't deny it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie gave me and Bunny a very pained smile. "Will you excuse us, please?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">She and Melvine vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">When they reappeared, Melvine looked chastened. He came up to me with his head bowed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sir, I would like to apologize. I knew eavesdropping was wrong. I won't do it again."</div>
<div class="paragraph">His respectful tones almost knocked me off my feet. I eyed him to make sure it wasn't sarcasm, but I couldn't detect a trace of it. Markie was one tough disciplinarian.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Melvine," I replied. I glanced at Markie, a question on my face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just using a little family leverage," Markie said, her eyes still flashing with anger. "Git!" she snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine got. He vanished out of the room in a BAMF.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I whistled. "That wasn't necessary, but it was impressive."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If you don't keep the fear of Crom in him he will relapse," Markie said tonelessly. "That's been his problem all along. He gets comfortable, he gets confident, then he gets cocky. He'll listen better from now on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not an experienced teacher, but I think he really is doing well. You would be surprised how much work he's really putting in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I would," Markie said with a sigh. "I'm sorry you had to see that. My guess is that he started listening in on your conversations at night to find out what the lesson is for the next day."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh," I said, subdued. "Bunny and I never really talked much about that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Have you got a room for me?" Markie asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because I'm staying. Your big bodyguards aren't here any more, and you need backup. I may not have their presence, but I pack my own punch."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's a good idea," Bunny said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I have to admit I stared. Bunny grimaced.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't seem so surprised. I may not have been crazy about Markie before, but even if I wasn't—coming around, I'm not going to let my dislike jeopardize your life. What if she's right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, thanks," I said firmly. "Either I'm the target—and as you point out, that won't be the first time—or I'm not. I'll handle the next attempt when it comes. Face it, Markie, Melvine won't learn if you're here watching him. He'll just do what you want, or what he thinks you want. Go on. You can drop in and visit again, if you want. Any time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You'd better believe I will," Markie said. "You be careful, all right? I can get messages sent through a crystal ball. Bunny can find me if you need me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I won't need you," I assured her. "Come on, let's eat."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gave the students the afternoon off. Now that I was aware of potential threats, I felt fairly confident I could handle them, but I wasn't a fool. I set up little traps of magikal interference, so I would know if anyone made another attempt on my life or Bunny's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Taking Markie's advice a little further, I investigated the students' backgrounds. I was kicking myself for not having done it before. I ought to know the risks of trusting people to be what they seemed on the surface, but I couldn't help it. Now I had to backtrack and take care of the thing I should have done first.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Ironically enough, Melvine, the biggest troublemaker, was the only one whose provenance was absolutely without reproach. Markie felt she owed me an apology and a debt. I had kept her secret for some time now. It was leverage that she couldn't take away from me, unless she went out of business. She would not be the one to land me with a fake nephew to finish the job she had failed at all those years ago.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I believed that Chumley thought he knew Tolk had no secret agenda or unsavory connections. If he had, Chumley would never have brought him to me. But what if there was some dark past the seemingly amiable Canidian had concealed from his benefactor? I left a message for Chumley with his mother, asking where he'd met Tolk and how long they'd known each other. Then I dimension-hopped to Deva and the Bazaar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Youse don't have to worry about Bee," Guido told me when I dropped in on him to ask about his former noncom. "He's a good kid."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is this him?" I asked, presenting an ethereal image that Bytina had taken of the class. It had also occurred to me that someone calling himself Corporal Bee had presented himself to Massha, claiming he knew Guido and asking for help.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It sure is," the big enforcer said, sitting back in his chair. "He's fleshed out a little since I saw him last!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He has?" I asked, taking back the picture. Bee was so skinny that I could probably blow him down with a hefty sneeze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah. Used to be about half that wideness. Hey, Nunzio, look here. It's Bee. He's studyin' magik with Skeeve. How's he doin'?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's learned a few things," I said. "He's intelligent and he works hard. I've never known anyone who was a better organizer, except perhaps Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Somethin's worryin' you, boss," Guido said shrewdly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I told him and Nunzio about the grenade ring and the missing money. "Bee looks like the most likely one to know how to operate an explosive device, but I can't believe he would endanger all of us for a joke. And, after what you've said, I know I'm wrong to suspect him. So I have to keep my eyes on all of them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're smart to be on guard. But that ain't what's really botherin' you, is it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">How well he knew me. "They're always complaining. If they don't like my lessons, why are they so desperate to stay?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Have you ever tried finding an honest magik teacher?" Guido countered my question with a question. "I bet there ain't no more of them then there is honest used-wagon salesmen. A whole lotta them just want a caboodle of apprentices to follow 'em around and say how wonderful they are. Some of 'em are downright phonies who don't know any more about magik than I do. You're not like that. If I had any talent I'd be proud to sign on wit' you, if you were fillin' a class. I'm glad</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee's got the chance to learn from you a little. They're gettin' more than they would anywhere else. You know kids; they grouse about anything. It's just natural. I wouldn't take it personal if I was you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I felt a little better. That left only the Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Aahz wasn't in the office. I left a note for him, and dropped in on Vergetta and the rest of the Pervect Ten on Wuh.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, Skeeve the Great!" Vergetta exclaimed, coming over to give me a hug. The elderly Pervect, clad in one of her favorite flowered dresses. "Look, Caitlin, it's Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The very young Pervect turned away briefly from her computer screen to give me a grin that showed three missing top teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The others are out doing sales calls, except Niki, who's knee-deep in machinery, as usual. That girl, always with the mechanics instead of good old magik." Vergetta threw her arm around my shoulder and marched me to the end of the long table in the huge stone chamber. "I know you didn't come here just to see our smiling faces, bubbeleh. What can I do for you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wasn't sure where to begin. "You know, your niece has been taking lessons from me for the last few weeks."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Vergetta nodded as she poured tea into a tall glass and pushed it towards me. "Yes, Jinetta. A good girl, smart but not too imaginative. Take some sugar, it'll make you strong. And how is she doing?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, pretty well, really."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good! She and her friends—you know they're just fresh out of school, right?—were so interested in finding someone who knew what they vere doing to give them some pointers. I don't know what's the hurry, but they kept saying it's so hard to get a good job unless you have practical experience. I didn't have the time to teach her the ropes, and she vouldn't listen to a relative anyvay, so that's how come she ends up on your doorstep. Not that there's anything wrong with them! Her friends are all right. They're so interested in boys and makeup</div>
<div class="paragraph">until recently. Now they all want to be the heads of major corporations. Girls today!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waited until the spate of conversation slowed and jumped in. "Listen, Vergetta, what did you tell them I could do for them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The old Pervect grinned. "Can you grow them some common sense? No? I didn't think so. I see you," she pointed a gnarled fingernail at me, "as the antidote to those teachers of theirs. Especially that Mr. Magoo-whatever. He knew nothing but what he read in books, but they worshiped him like a god. I thought that, if anyone could, you'd show them there was something more past the end of their noses. If you succeed in teaching them that, you're a hero."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm trying," I said. "Sometimes I think I'm getting through, and sometimes I don't."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fifty-fifty isn't bad odds. Well, Skeeve, nice of you to stop by. I have to get an order out to Skloon. Now, don't be a stranger. You should stop by when you have time to take a tour of Wuh. It's shaping up so well, you won't know the place."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I returned to Klah to find a note from Chumley waiting for me. Tolk had been a member of the Alpha Males, Omega Males club where Chumley volunteered as a mentor once a month. Now I had no suspects, and I was none the wiser as to who was causing all the trouble among my students.</div>
<div class="paragraph">And trouble there was. In my remonstrations with the students not to do stupid things, once again I had forgotten to tell them not to swap cosmetics for bird excrement. The Pervects came screaming down the stairs with white goo hardening on their faces, complaining that SOMEONE had tampered with their very expensive cosmetics. Tolk was upset because his shampoo, Gee Your Fur Smells Edible, which did smell like used food, had overwhelmed him with green bubbles, staining his fur. Melvine and Bee hadn't been left out, joining the circle of protesters. My eyes watered when they got close enough. They smelled of skunk.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It was in the soap, sir," Bee said, weakly. "It didn't start reeking until I rubbed it on myself."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who did this?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He did!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She did!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He did!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She did!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">They all pointed at each other. I glared at them. They glared back. Exasperated, I threw up my hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Forget it," I said, turning away. "Go to bed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But, Skeeve!" Jinetta said. "You're supposed to handle these things."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm just in charge of magik instruction," I said. "Nothing else. Read my contract."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But we don't have a contract with you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked back over my shoulder. "Exactly."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stalked into my room and locked the door. The expected grumbling about my being an unfit teacher and uncaring individual arose then escalated into some pretty creative name calling. In about twenty minutes, they all ran out of things to say and stalked off. Relieved, I pulled my blanket up and went to sleep.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BANG!</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sat bolt upright in bed. Where had that noise come from? I craned my head to listen in the dark.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I heard night birds in the distance squawking and fluttering away from the disturbing sound. It probably had originated in or near the inn.</div>
<div class="paragraph">With a flicker of thought, I lit the candle on my nightstand and got up to investigate.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What was that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I held up the candle. Bunny fluttered out of her room, wearing the briefest and sheerest of nightgowns. It did nothing to conceal her considerable charms or her toned biceps. In one hand she held a well-sharpened hand axe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nothing, I hope," I said. "I'm going out to look."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Be careful!" she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects tiptoed down the stairs. "What happened? We heard a crash!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, they weren't responsible for this disturbance.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't know," I said. "Stay here with Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The night was clear, with a brilliant half-moon hanging about a third of the way across the sky. I circled the inn a couple of times. Nothing looked out of the ordinary. I went into the stable to check on Gleep and Buttercup.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The war unicorn nickered to me from his stall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, boy," I called softly as I came over to rub his nose. "Did that disturb you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Buttercup nudged me to the side of his stall with his big head. I ducked under his horn and investigated the enclosure. A few mice squeaked and ran out of the straw bedding. Nothing out of the ordinary was to be found. I checked on his food supply, and forked some more hay into his manger.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep!" my pet dragon announced sleepily from the middle of the floor. I could see his snaky neck illuminated by the moonlight pouring in the open half-door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is everything all right out here?" I asked. No one knew the secret we shared: that Gleep was intelligent and could speak. "Did you hear that noise?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Noise nothing," Gleep said, opening his big blue eyes wide. "Skeeve okay?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm fine," I assured him, scratching just behind his ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go bed. Nothing hurt. Gleep love Skeeve."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I love you, too, Gleep."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gleep had very keen senses. If he wasn't alarmed by the noise, I shouldn't be, either. I petted him again and went back inside.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Just in case, I put a few more 'feelers' around the door, window and fireplace flue in my room. Better to be safe than sorry.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_20" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36324527" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36324529" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Nineteen <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"You think you've got family problems!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">L. LUCIANO</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was in my room brooding when a knock came at the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can it wait, Bunny?" I asked, recognizing her voice. "I'd kind of like to be alone for a while."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We've got a visitor," came the reply. "It's my uncle. He'd like to say hello."</div>
<div class="paragraph">That was different. Aside from liking him as a person, I was well aware that her uncle was not someone you would ever want to ignore or offend.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"On the way," I called, and started for the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Even if I hadn't been forewarned, there was no mistaking the short, heavyset figure sitting at the dining room table. If nothing else, his trademark lavender suit was a dead giveaway.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don Bruce!" I said as I approached, then hesitated. As long as we had known each other, I wasn't sure what a properly respectful greeting should be.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I needn't have worried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve!" he crowed, popping to his feet and sweeping me into a massive hug. "How's the old pizano? How's the retirement goin'?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay, I guess," I said. "How are things with you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had hoped to keep things light, but Don Bruce hadn't gotten where he was by missing things.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just 'okay'?" he asked, cocking his head and peering at me. "This wouldn't have anything to do with these students that Bunny's been tellin' me about, would it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shot a dark glance at Bunny. While Don Bruce had been nice enough about my retiring, he had also made no secret of the fact that he wanted me back working for the Mob. As such,</div>
<div class="paragraph">I wasn't wild about the fact that Bunny had let him know that I was working again, even if it was just as a teacher.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, yes," I admitted. "This teaching thing is turning out to be harder than I thought."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The kids givin' you grief?" he asked sympathetically. "Grab some wine and tell me about it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">To my surprise, I found myself pouring out my disappointment with how the class was going. Particularly, how unhappy I was with my own inability to control the bickering and backbiting among the students. I had never really chatted with Don Bruce before other than in a business context, and it was nice to unload my worries on someone who wasn't directly involved in the proceedings. He listened intently, nodding and making occasional sympathetic noises, until I finally wound down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think maybe I can give you a little hand with that," he said when I was done. "Would it be okay with you if I had a word or two with these hotshot students of yours?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">That caught me flat footed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Um, sure, Don Bruce," I said. "If you think you can spare the time, that is."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Again, he noticed my hesitation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whatzamatter?" he growled. "Don't you think I'm up to it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No! It's not that at all," I said hastily. "It's just that these kids are kinda mouthy and, well, I'm not sure they'll react to you with the level of respect you're due and are used to."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Don Bruce threw back his head and laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You hear that, Bunny?" he said. "You wonder why I love this guy? I want to give him a hand and all he worries about is that my feelings might get hurt."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He leveled a pair of hard eyes on me, all trace of laughter gone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just get 'em down here," he said. "Let me worry about how respectful they are."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked at Bunny and shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Roust the students," I said. "Tell them we have a surprise guest lecturer."</div>
<div class="paragraph">By the time the class was assembled around the table, Don Bruce and I were standing against the wall, conversing in low tones. I was asking him about what he thought would be an appropriate introduction, while he kept insisting that I keep my comments to a bare minimum and let him handle the rest. That sounded vaguely ominous to me, but I had little choice but to go along with him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As I turned to the group, my heart sank. The three Pervects had their heads together, giggling as they shot glances at Don Bruce, and Melvine was leaning back with his arms crossed with an "impress me" expression on his face, and Tolk was chewing at an itch on his foot. In fact, the only one who looked remotely attentive was Bee, who was watching Don Bruce with a thoughtful, puzzled expression.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right, class," I said, raising my voice, "I apologize for the short notice, but I didn't know this speaker would be available until he dropped in for a visit. This is Bunny's uncle, a successful businessman here on Klah, and he's offered to share his insights with us on operating in the real world."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded to Don Bruce and stepped back, mentally crossing my fingers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He stepped up to the table and took a drink of wine before starting.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a titter of laughter from the Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, ladies?" he asked, looking directly at them. "Was there something you wanted to ask before I started?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I was just wondering where you got your outfit," Jinetta said with a grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Pologne added. "Do you always dress like this, or is this special for our class?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">This set the three of them to giggling again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I dress this way because I want to," Don Bruce said calmly after the giggles had subsided. "When you reach a given level in the real world, you get to do that. In my mind, it's better</div>
<div class="paragraph">than dressing to blend with or imitate any given group, or to rebel against an established norm."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Exactly what line of magik are you in?" Melvine asked, a note of skeptical challenge in his voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't dabble in it myself," came the response. "When necessary, I hire it done."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then why should we listen—" Melvine began then seemed to think better of it. "Then exactly what kind of business are you in?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You might say I head a little family business," Don Bruce said with a tight smile. "Actually, it's not so little. More like what you would call a mob."</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a moment's silence as the class exchanged glances.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Excuse me," Melvine said, his tone cautious. "Are we talking about organized crime here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe that's what it's called from the outside," the Don said. "When you see it close up, like from the inside, it ain't really all that organized."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Um, sir?" Bee said, holding up a cautious hand. "Would your name by any chance be Don Bruce?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Guilty as charged," the Don said with a nod, then he winked at me. "That's something you won't hear me say very often."</div>
<div class="paragraph">My students were murmuring back and forth, their tone and manner noticeably more subdued.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now then," Don Bruce said, returning his attention to the class, "I believe you were about to ask why you should listen to me. Before I answer that, let me ask all of you a question. Why did you all want to study under Skeeve here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">That took everyone aback. For a moment, no one spoke. Then they all tried to talk at once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My aunt told me—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I heard—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everyone knows—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Don Bruce silenced them all with a wave of his hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's start at the top," he said. "Mostly, each of you wants to increase his or her value on the job market. Right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a round of nods from the class.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To my thinking," he continued, "what that actually breaks down to is the acquisition and use of power."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The nods were slower, and Bee raised his hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Um, not to disagree, sir," he said, "but I just want to help people. I thought that studying under Skeeve would help me to do that better."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good answer," the Don nodded. "Very admirable. But you don't see many weak or poor people helping others, no matter how nice they may be as people. To help others, you have to be in a position to be able to help, and that gets back to what I was saying, acquiring and using power. See what I mean?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—I think so," Bee said hesitantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, this all gets back to why you should listen to me," Don Bruce said. "I may not be a magician but, as a businessman, one thing I have to know is how to acquire and use power. The problem with young folks like you, with the possible exception of the young gentleman here and the furry guy sitting next to him, is that you wouldn't know power if it bit you on the leg."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned his attention back to Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I couldn't help but notice that you seemed to recognize me or my name. Can I ask if I'm right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir," Bee said. "I was in the army with Swatter— Guido—and he often mentioned you with the greatest respect. Just like he mentioned Skeeve."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The army, eh?" the Don smiled. "I thought you showed more sense than normally comes out of a book. For the record, I have the highest regard for Guido. I only wish he was here to help me make my next point."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Um, if I may, sir. If it will help—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee closed his eyes in concentration, and suddenly Guido was sitting there in his place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey! That's pretty good," Don Bruce said then turned to me. "What is that? Some kind of transfer spell?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's just a disguise spell," I said. "It's actually still Bee sitting there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, it'll do for the moment." He went back to addressing the class.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, my question to you is this: Look at Guido here, then look at me. Then tell me which of us you would least like to have angry with you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">It really wasn't much of a choice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Guido," Melvine said. "No offense, sir, but he's a lot bigger."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rest of the class nodded their agreement.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh huh," the Don said. "Guido is not only big, he's one of the best, if not the best, at what he does—which is to say, controlled violence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thank you—Bee, is it? The point is made."</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a shimmering in the air, and Bee was back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, you all made the obvious, expected choice. Unfortunately, you're all wrong."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He smiled at the frowns around him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Guido is big and strong, and I'd never disrespect him," he said. "The truth of the matter, though, is that I have over a hundred like him working for me. All of them specialists in controlled violence. If Guido gets mad at you, you have to deal with Guido. If I get mad at you, you can have the whole pack of 'em down on your neck. Are you starting to see what I mean about power?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The class was murmuring back and forth again, but they were also watching Don Bruce with a new level of respect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The key word in what I was saying," the Don continued, "is control. Guido doesn't walk around randomly pounding on people. He knows how much power he has and the repercussions if he misuses it. He's not a bully looking for a chance to show off. He's effective and only uses as much power as is necessary for the situation. Technically, I have more power at</div>
<div class="paragraph">my disposal than Guido has. That means I have to be that much more careful about how and when I use it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He leaned back and smiled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All of that brings us back to why you're studying under Skeeve. Now, if I understand it right, most of you were recommended to him or heard about his reputation. I'm willing to bet that you were all a little disappointed when you actually met him because he isn't flashier or more impressive. That's because most of you are still young and tend to look at the surface, just like you were more afraid of Guido than of me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">All of a sudden, he wasn't smiling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I'm not young and impressionable. I've been around for a long time and earned my position against some tough competition in conditions where, if you make a mistake, you don't get a bad grade or expelled from class, you get dead. Based on long, hard experience, I'll tell you here and now that your teacher, Skeeve, is one of the most powerful men I've ever dealt with. What's more, I don't think there's anyone that I admire and respect more."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked at me and gave a slow nod with his head in salute.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Startled as I was by his declaration, the only thing I could • do was return his nod with equal dignity.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He turned his attention back to the class.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You might want to hear a little of how he built that reputation. Since he's not likely to tell you himself, let me fill you in on few of the highlights.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When I first met Skeeve, he was the Court Magical for Possiltum. At that time, he had just backed off the largest, best-led army this dimension had ever seen. What's more, he did it with only a Troll, a Trollop, a Pervect, an Imp, a Gargoyle, a salamander, and an Archer to help him."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep was there, too," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I stand corrected. And a baby dragon. Even so, that's fairly impressive odds by anybody's books. As I was saying, when I met him, he was standing in for the king, who had taken it on</div>
<div class="paragraph">the lam to get out of a marriage. If Skeeve had wanted to, he could have stayed and run the kingdom from then on. Instead, he straightened the mess out and moved to the Bazaar at Deva, where the Chamber of Commerce hired him for their Magician in Residence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"On the side, he and a few of his friends challenged the two champion teams on Jahk to the Big Game and beat them out of their own trophy. Then there was the time that his partner, Aahz, was in jail in the dimension Blut—that's the one with vampires and werewolves—and Skeeve had to bust him out and prove his innocence."</div>
<div class="paragraph">That one got a reaction from the class. I had told them I would be sending them to Blut on a field exercise, but I had deliberately neglected to mention to them how I happened to be familiar with the place.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One bit you ladies might find interesting was the time that Aahz resigned from M.YT.H., Inc. and Skeeve here went to Perv all by himself to convince him to come back. I'm still gathering information as to exactly how he pulled that one off and came back intact."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The three Pervects were eyeing me now with thoughtful expressions. I was glad Don Bruce had either failed to find out or chosen to omit mentioning how that little escapade got me deported from Perv as an undesirable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, you might think that all that would be enough to build a reputation for anyone. Well, it might, but in Skeeve's case, it's only the tip of the iceberg. Where his real reputation comes from is that he's a true gentleman.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I said at the beginning that I was telling you all this because he won't. That ain't his style. He don't brag or bluster or swagger. What's more, he don't throw his weight around unless it's absolutely necessary. He don't have to. His track record speaks for itself. More important, Skeeve genuinely likes people. He's polite and respectful to everybody including his enemies, whether they're strong enough to hurt him or not. If you don't believe me, ask around.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You've all met Massha? Well, when they first met, they were opposite sides of a caper—specifically, that Big Game on Jahk I was telling you about. Afterward, not only did he accept her as an apprentice, he set her up to replace him as the Court Magician at Possiltum. And my niece, Bunny. She had it in her head that she wanted to be a mob Moll, so I sent her to Skeeve as a bit of a test for both of them. As it turns out, he won't let her be a floozie. Instead, she ends up using all the financial training she got at school to straighten out the kingdom's books for Possiltum, and now she's got a rep of her own as a financier and negotiator. As a matter of fact, there's at least one bank in Perv that's been trying to hire her away from Skeeve for years, but she won't budge."</div>
<div class="paragraph">This was the first I had heard about it. I glanced at Bunny, but she was smiling at the class and nodding.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the kind of reputation Skeeve has. Everybody respects him. He earns the kind of loyalty from his friends and associates that money can't buy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked around one more time and rose to his feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I've been ranting here for a long while, and I'll be on my way. Just one last thing, though. Remember when I said I was more powerful that Guido? Well I'll tell you here and now that your teacher, Skeeve, is more powerful than I am. Of everyone I've met or worked with, he's at the top of my list to turn the Mob over to when I retire. Think about that the next time you want to mouth off about how your professors or friends know more than he does."</div>
<div class="paragraph">With that, he waved at Bunny and me and left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was a quiet, thoughtful group that drifted off back to their rooms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">After Don Bruce left, the dirty tricks and practical jokes seemed to tail off for good. The students listened more closely to what I had to say. Not as Melvine had after Markie left, but in a more thoughtful manner. What Don Bruce had said to them may have been profoundly embarrassing to me, but it seemed to touch my six students deeply. I was grateful.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Okay, guys," I said, winding up the D-hopper, "this is your final examination. I'm sending you on a field mission, to infiltrate a party of strangers and retrieve an object for me. I want you to go to Limbo, a dimension I've had some experience in. It's a very interesting place. Your object is to visit the Woof Writers." They're a couple of Werewolves I know who live outside the main city. I want you to bring back one of their books. I wouldn't have suggested going there before, because the people in Limbo are very nervous about dimensional travelers. Most of them are vampires."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee clutched his throat. "Vampires! Are you sure we have to, sir?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't worry," I chuckled. "They are a LOT more frightened of you than you could be of them. They don't do a lot of magik because there are few force lines in Limbo."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, not another underprivileged dimension," Melvine groaned.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I paid no attention. "Keep your disguises up all the time, and you should have no trouble at all. If you need help, look up Vilhelm. He's the Dispatcher of Nightmares in the city of Blut. I've written out the address. Are you ready?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good. Who's going to be mission commander?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Modestly, Jinetta stepped forward. "They've selected me, Skeeve."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right." I handed her the D-hopper. "It's set to take you to Limbo. Move the dial back to here to return. You've got," I peered out the window at the midmorning sun, "eight hours until sunset here. Go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, they were gone. I tried to shove aside my feelings of worry. They weren't greenhorns any longer. Bunny stood behind me with her arms crossed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you sure this is a good idea, Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I am," I replied. "Well, almost sure. I set the whole thing up with Drachir and Idnew. They've got an encounter group</div>
<div class="paragraph">staying with them who pretend to be Klahds and play elaborate live role-play games that echo what they think a Klahd lifestyle is like. They dress up in flowered and striped clothing and paint their faces pink or brown. Drachir thought it would be very funny to have a real Klahd drop into their midst. Bee's second best spell is Datspell, so he should be able to keep up a vampire disguise on unless he wants to drop it. They were also eager to meet Tolk. I think they believe Canidians to be long-lost cousins of Werewolves. Vilhelm will be monitoring the group from the time they appeared in Limbo. It's all as safe as I can make it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How safe is that? Aahz nearly got killed there. So did you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I am aware of that," I said. "But I know a lot more about the dimension now, and I have a few friends there. It's not as if I am sending them into the unknown, or making them walk a tightrope across burning coals. They have all day to do what ought to take them as little as an hour, maybe two if they fall for one of Drachir or Idnew's rituals. They said they had some really funny ones dreamed up for the Klahths, which is what the wanna-be Klahds call themselves, but Idnew assured me they're harmless. Disgusting, but harmless."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Things can still go wrong," Bunny warned me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sighed. "I know it, but I can't always be there to hold their hands. Tomorrow they go home, and they'll be on their own from then on. At least tonight we can have a round-table critique session on where they thought they were weak. That will give them something to think about in weeks to come. In the meantime, I can spend the day worrying."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've got a better idea," Bunny said, pointing in the direction of the kitchen. "I've been doing all the chores for six weeks. You can clean up while your students aren't here to see it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grinned ruefully. "I deserved that." I went off to find the broom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the telltale noise, I dropped my dishcloth and went running into the main room of the inn. Bunny followed me. My students, somewhat disheveled and red-eyed, stood leaning on one another. Melvine was clinging to Freezia's back. Jinetta held onto the D-hopper as if it was her lifeline. They were smiling. That was a good sign. They were singing. That was also a good sign.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you do with a drunken vampire? What do you do with a drunken vampire? Fill his glass with week-old ketchup, ear-lie in the morning!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ow, ow, owwww!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I raised my eyebrows. I'd heard the song before. The verses contained plenty of salty language, most of which I never thought would pass the lips of the genteely raised graduate students, but here they were belting it out in three part harmony with a Canidian howl for counterpoint.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you do with a drunken satyr? What do you do with a drunken satyr?" Freezia began then paused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I dunno!" Pologne said, a trifle unsteadily. "What comes after that? I've forgotten the words."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shing it again!" Melvine's voice quavered. He lost his grip and slid off Freezia to the floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you do—hiya, Skeeve! Hiya, Bunny," Jinetta said, grinning at us with every tooth showing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Teach! Howya doin'?" Melvine shouted. He was dressed in a plaid kilt with a flowered shirt the sleeves of which were rolled up to let his hands stick out. He waved his arms to get his balance and sat up. "We're back!" He fell down again. "Uggghh. I don't feel so well."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here's the book!" Bee said, thrusting a blue leather-bound volume into my arms. He wore a pie-eyed expression, not as far gone as Melvine but still well on his way to ethanol poisoning. He had a suspicious-looking mark on his neck. I peered closer. He backed away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Line of duty, sir," he explained. "One of the hostiles— er, wasn't really hostile, sir. She was kinda friendly, really."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No questions asked," I assured him. "So, you were successful! Congratulations!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir," Bee barked out. "We arrived at approximately ten in the evening Limbo local time, sir! Observed some local native inhabitant residents of the dimension and created disguise spells appropriate to blend in with them. Proceeded along road according to instructions, following turns indicated on the map carried by Mission Commander Jinetta! Isn't that right, ma'am?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why, yes!" Jinetta said. "You're telling it very well. Go on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ma'am! We proceeded to the domicile inhabited by the Woof Writers, sir! Except it was also inhabited by fifteen other people, wearing really strange clothing..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They said it was Klahth clobber," Melvine said. "I didn't see any clobber. They told me to look closely, then they clobbered me. It was a joke, get it? I mean, aren't these the most awesome threads you have ever seen?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Identified ourselves as 'friends of Skeeve' to Subject One, Drachir, Woof Writer. They have impressive teeth, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I know," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We joined the gathering. At approximately +80 minutes into mission, Subject Two, Idnew, issued refreshments. They were unfamiliar, but we felt required to partake in order not to appear out of place. Sausage pizza, salad and cannoli, according to Freezia's interpretation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I looked it up," the smallest Pervect giggled then hiccuped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The additional people, who identified themselves as Klahths— I can give you a full list of their names if you want, sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, thanks," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They ate the food with some difficulty. Thanks to your training, sir, we were able to consume the offered rations. I thought they tasted okay, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Horrible!" Jinetta shuddered. "Crunchy leaves!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then they started daring each other to take a drink. Then they dared us. The beverage tasted like plain old whiskey to me, sir. It was no trouble to drink it, sir. It was pretty smooth."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hundred-year-old, single malt Dragoncroft," Melvine said with a reminiscent smile on his face. "Can you believe it? They were chugging it down like rotgut. 'Course, some people don't know how to hold their liquor anyhow." He glared at the Pervects.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tasted pretty good for non-Pervect liquor," Jinetta admitted. "Then they brought out the red stuff."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Blood?" I asked, blanching.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, no. They called it bug juice. I have to tell you, Skeeve, at home I never drink bugs, but this was very nice! I must start trying off-dimension food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too," Free2ia put in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not of animal origin," Tolk assured me. "Plant. Fruit, really. Fermented. I made sure it was safe before I let anyone drink it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I dunno why you said it was dangerous," Pologne said. The veins in her own orbs were bulging slightly. "Those are some of the nicest people I've ever met!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They started a sing-along. Jinetta taught them our school fight song."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She charmed them," Freezia insisted. "They were nervous about strangers, but Jinetta made them feel as though they have known us all their lives. Tolk did, too. They never suspected we weren't Limboans."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aooooo!" Tolk said, his nose raised toward the ceiling. "Aaa—cough cough! Boy, that's going to take some practice!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Canidian trotted in a circle around me. "The Woof Writers made me an honorary Werewolf. It was intense! All I have to do is to learn to howl properly. They said I'm awful but I could learn!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They didn't mean you were really awful," Jinetta said. "They were just joking. Very helpful."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Until we asked for the object of our mission," Bee reminded her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yeah—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What was the problem?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, sir, it took a while for me to be able to ask about the book. I got kind of interested in my surroundings—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"In that GIRL," Tolk teased him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, yeah," Bee said, blushing. "She was, uh, a friendly neutral. I think maybe I had too much to drink, sir."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta raised a finger. "I remembered about it. Idnew said she couldn't remember where she had put it. Drachir said we'd all hunt for it. It turned out we had been using it as a tray for the chips and dip. Well, as soon as I moved the food off of it, the Klahths grabbed it. I tried to get it back, but they started playing keep-away with it. Just like little children," she fumed. "So, I levitated it back to me. I'm afraid it frightened them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Such a natural little action," Free2ia said, "and they all stampeded to the far end of the room!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I remembered that you said they don't do magik, so I laughed." She essayed a high chuckle. "Then I said it was a party trick. You do party tricks at parties, don't you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Drachir backed us up," Tolk said. "What a guy! What a guy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He didn't want a riot starting in his own house," I said drily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So they all wanted to see it again," Jinetta continued. "They took back the book. I got very angry and stamped my foot. I went after the Klahth who had it. I'm afraid I threw some people around." She hiccuped. "I guess I'm stronger than I thought."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One of them went right through the window,'' Pologne added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then it got kinda complicated," Bee said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A brawl," Melvine explained. "A real brawl. It was great. I kept the bottles and things from hitting the girls."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But you saved the day," Jinetta said, putting her arms around Bee. "We couldn't get near the person with our book, and time was running out. Then Bee thrust out his hands, and the book came FLYING back to us—with the Klahth still attached to it! I didn't know he could do anything like that. He hasn't been able to in all these weeks!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I didn't know he could, either," I said in surprise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've been practicing, sir," Bee said, his face red. "Late at night, out in the stables. I didn't want you to be disappointed in me, sir. Your dragon thought it was kind of fun to watch me. Last night I even levitated him. That was why the Klahth was no problem."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was speechless. So that was the source of the mysterious banging. Bee must have dropped a heavy object. I glanced at Gleep. My dragon gave me an infinitely innocent blue-eyed gaze then winked one eye at me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm proud of you, Bee, especially for showing such initiative on your own. I'm proud of all of you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We've prepared a feast in your honor," Bunny said. "Come on in. We've been waiting for you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects looked pale. "Maybe just a few skyrerth on toast," Freezia said. "I don't think I could face much else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, either," Bee said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They looked a little peaked at first, but the smell of good food revived their appetites. When we had all pushed our bowls away, I got up to make a speech. I'd been thinking all day about what to say, but I tossed all of my mental notes aside at the sight of the six of them talking and laughing together, the way they had when we returned from their first successful job.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"First of all," I said, raising my wine glass, "here's to the first, and probably only, Myth-a-Technic University graduating class. You've all done better than I ever thought you could, especially with me as your teacher. I've only had one apprentice before, and I think she owes a lot more of her success to what she thinks she got out of me than what she really did. I believe you're the same. I have offered you the wisdom of my friends and colleagues, because that's what enabled me to get along in life. I couldn't make you take it or use it, but you have. And, I feel, you will use it to achieve great things in life. For that you deserve congratulations."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes," Melvine said, raising his own glass, "we do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hear, hear!" Pologne said, waving her glass.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny let out a shrill whistle of approbation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Second, you came to me as individuals, but you have acted not only as individuals but as a cooperative team, and that was one of the keys to your success. You had someone to watch your back, and someone to accomplish the parts of the task that you couldn't. You can see from that interaction a little of what made me so happy with my friends in M.Y.T.H., Inc. I believe you can't beat a team. So, in your future endeavors, remember to 1) make friends, and 2) delegate."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Down both sides of the table, I noticed odd looks being exchanged between Tolk, Melvine and the Pervects. Jinetta raised an eyebrow and nodded slowly at Melvine. Bee kept his eyes locked on me, a contented smile on his narrow, freckled face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, when you leave here tomorrow morning, I just want to tell you that I learned as much or more from having you here as you did from me. Thanks for an amazing experience."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sat down to tumultuous applause. Jinetta rose and cleared her throat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think I speak for everyone when I say thank you for all the trouble you've gone through for us, Skeeve and Bunny. Skeeve, you're a great teacher. Believe me. You gave us exactly what we needed, and made us take some necessary reality checks. You don't know how much it meant to all of us. I know I've enjoyed being here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me, too!" Freezia said. "It was worth every penny. More."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk stood up. "Thanks a million! To Skeeve. Wow wow wow!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others raised their glasses. "Wow wow wow!" they chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny smiled at them. "I'll be sorry to see you go," she said. "It's been nice to have company. Come back and visit us some time." She started to rise and picked up her bowl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'd be honored," Bee said. "Oh, don't get up, ma'am. I'll do the dishes."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We all will," Jinetta said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Like I said," Bunny said to me, as the self-appointed cleanup committee hustled around us, "I'm going to miss them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">In no time at all, the dining room was swept, wiped, and scrubbed. All of the dishes went back onto the shelves, and the leftovers were scraped into Gleep's bowl. My pet stuck his nose into it with a whiffle of pleasure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If that's all we can do," Jinetta said, "then we're going to go up. Is that all right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," I said, smiling. "You're graduates now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Gravely, the students each shook my hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As they were heading for the stairs, Jinetta threw her arm over Bee's shoulders. "Come with me, kid. We need to talk."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_21" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36325523" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36325525" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Who thinks up this stuff?" E. KNIEVEL</div>
<div class="paragraph">I sat at my study table, ostensibly comparing the power capacity of two hunks of magikal crystal from Herkymer. It had been about a week since my students had left. The old inn was quiet again—too quiet. Bunny had taken a few days off to take Buttercup to a unicorn show, leaving me and Gleep to our own devices. Gleep, usually the most ebullient of pets, was depressed at the absence of his best friend, and sat at my feet emitting mournful sighs and the occasional whiff of stench. We were both grateful when they returned earlier this afternoon, Buttercup proudly showing off his medallion for Best War Animal. He and Gleep had charged off into the woods to play. Bunny entertained herself quietly in her sitting room. Having been by myself for several days I was ready to hear all about her trip, but she had forestalled me with an upraised hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, don't pay any attention to me, Skeeve," she chirped brightly. "Don't stop your research just because I came home. I brought back a stack of new magazines to read. Just pretend I'm still not here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">After the enforced silence, that was impossible. I found myself glancing up at any little noise, just to have a distraction from the silence. It surprised me how much I missed the class. Or, maybe, I was more sociable than I thought I was. Living like a hermit was not my natural habit and, as soon as I felt more like a master magician than a faker, I'd be back in the thick of things in a blink.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A trill of birdsong brought my attention away from the blue chunk. I had to stop that. Mastering complex magik required concentration, and the best concentration was found in silence. It was one of the reasons that old Garkin had his</div>
<div class="paragraph">cottage way out in the woods—that and the penury that often accompanies sincere magikal study. I was enough of a realist to know I was more than fortunate being able to take a sabbatical with a full strongbox. I wouldn't have to scratch, as my old master had, to buy thurifers and censers and candles and all of the paraphernalia that magicians surrounded themselves to assist in their studies. Most of it was unnecessary window dressing, to impress a client. Consecrated salt? I had a barrelful. Rare incense? You name it, I had it. Still another percentage of items only served as another focus for concentration, such as gazing crystals and magik mirrors. The remainder was genuinely useful for certain kinds of magik, storing power or focusing it in some way that might not come naturally to a practitioner, or for use by a non-magician. I had a crate full of such gizmos. Each of them had been fun for a while, but I had put them aside in search of processes I could evoke rather than invoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">For a moment I was ashamed of the remarkable plenty I enjoyed. Maybe, when I decided to rejoin civilization, I'd endow a scholarship to help poor magicians get a start in their studies. If they couldn't make it after learning the basics, they were on their own.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bird sang again, its voice echoing in the emptiness. Maybe I should take up bull-wrestling, or foster a houseful of banshees, just to raise the sound level a little. Or maybe I should start a game show.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the study next door, Bunny had hooked into the Crystal Network again. Voices and music made me strain to hear. In the midst of it all I heard a BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tananda! You made it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Bunny! I brought popcorn. When's it get started?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soon! Let me pour you some wine."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi, Bunny," a little voice said. I recognized it as belonging to Markie.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I heard a clunk as the wine carafe rang against something solid. Tananda's voice rang, too, with outrage. "What is SHE doing here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stood up, wondering if I should charge out there and get between them. I didn't have to worry. Markie could take care of herself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's—not so bad, Tanda," Bunny said slowly. "She was ready to jump in and help Skeeve out a few weeks ago. It turned out he didn't need her, but I thought it was pretty nice of her to offer."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well—that's different from the way she was before."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"She's trying to be different. I'm trying to—accept it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I brought some wine," Markie added eagerly. "It's just a little 'thank you' for letting my nephew stay on here. You can't believe the difference it made in him. I'm sure you will like it. Chateau Cupido, extra sec, from my aunt's vineyard."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm not saying that would make everything all right," Tanda said, but her voice started losing that constricted quality.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Markie replied. "I'm not asking for that. Just give me a chance."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, sit down, I suppose. Do you do any crystal-gazing?" Tanda asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When I get a chance. You mean you're a fan, too?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do chocolate bunnies get their ears bitten off? You bet!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny became positively expansive. "I love it. It's really opened up the world to me, you know? And I've gotten to know so many other people through the ether. Oh, look. It's about to start!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did you see the first three episodes?" Tanda asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, yes!" Bunny said. "Everyone at the unicorn show was a big fan. We spent hours watching!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I moaned to myself. Crystal-gazing fans. Now they were going to talk about one of their programs until the trivia bled out of my ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where's Skeeve?" Markie asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Studying," Bunny said. I heard the glug of liquid. "He'll come out later."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Guiltily, I bent over my table to try to make her easy assurance ring true. The three of them laughed and chattered. I</div>
<div class="paragraph">peered at my crystals. The pink one held more energy than the blue one, but didn't retain it as long. Would it be possible to transfer power from the pink one to the blue one? Treating the crystal as if it was a force line, I drew on the pink power. It began to fill my inner 'battery.' So far so good. Now, I tried transferring it to the blue crystal. It grew hot. I dropped it on the table and began to rethink my approach. Pernadairy's Treatise on Magikal Crystals listed eighteen different means of releasing power from natural prisms, and only the three messiest made any reference to heat.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A series of crackles, pops and snaps erupted in the next room while Tanda and Bunny sought the connection in the ether they wanted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bytina, the little red PDA, was almost as good as a real crystal ball, but being a philosophical device more than a magikal one, she had odd problems of her own. The way she used power tended to build up a static-like charge that attracted nuisance emissions, insubstantial images, which infiltrated the house and appeared suddenly out of closets or other unexpected places. I saw a Troll carrying a sword pop up out of my clothing trunk one day. I nearly blasted my own wardrobe apart until I realized it was just an advertisement for a collectible weapons dealer. Tanda had showed me how to deal with commercial interruptions so I could dispell them for Bunny, but since Tanda was here, she could banish them herself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A sepulcheral voice boomed throughout the inn. "THIS is Sink or Swim: Perv. "</div>
<div class="paragraph">Peppy theme music started playing, resonating in my crystals. The blue one started glowing, making the skin on my hands lose its normal hue. I got interested in the phenomenon and stopped listening. Sink or Swim like all the remotely-viewed contests only held my interest in a marginal way. I found it hard to work up enthusiasm without being there. SOS was no sillier than any other game.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the beginning of each show the relentlessly cheerful announcer, Schlein, arrived in a puff of smoke. He would</div>
<div class="paragraph">recap the previous day's exploits and explain the concept anew for the audience. The rules were arbitrary but ironclad. Only amateur magicians could enter, meaning that they could never in their lives have accepted pay for performing a spell. Schlein always followed that rule up with "It's not too late to go back in time and return that quarter to your Grandpa, kids!" Which was met by hysterical laughter by the studio audience. No weapons except those allowed in the rule book, which Schliney always showed was empty. (Earning another big laugh from the viewers.) In fact, the contestants had to go into this contest practically naked. Pretty tough for a contest where the prize was survival itself. Some of the tasks the contestants were set were so dangerous no one but a complete fool would even consider undertaking them. It was stupid. I had no stake in it. No interest. I forced myself to concentrate on what I was doing.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The music ended and a deep, friendly voice spoke.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is Sink or Swim! And now, the host with the most, the one, the only—heeeere's Schleiny!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't have to see it to know that Schlein, a handsome male from Sittacom, had emerged from his puff of theatrical smoke. He had a habit of rubbing his hands together like a predatory insect which, apart from the green skin and antennae, he did not otherwise resemble. As spotlights swung to and fro over his head, he began his traditional introduction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Welcome to Sink or Swim! This is Day Four of the brand new series set here on Perv. Our original sixteen teams have already been pared down to eight. Following is a holographic representation of some of the highlights of the last few days."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Exciting music with a catchy, rapid beat rang out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, indeed, you had to be there! Now, you know the rules of Sink or Swim, but we're going to recap them for you now. Amateur magicians only. Entrants can never have accepted money for doing magik under any circumstances. It's not too late to go back in time and return that quarter to your Grandpa, kids!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Hilarious laughter from the studio audience and the three women watching from the sitting room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein continued. "That restriction is enforced by an oath administered by our Spectre team with dire consequences visited upon anyone who is lying to try to get in. We don't mess around here, folks! All the contestants are split up into teams of one to eight players. Each team must fulfill any task assigned to it. No weapons except those listed in the rulebook. Uh-huh," he added gleefully as the audience laughed again at what I knew was an empty book. "That's right, folks. Mechanical or physical objects are not allowed. You have to use your wits!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, that was a weapon most of the viewing public wasn't going to be able to wield.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At that moment the blue crystal emitted a shower of sparks. I tried to get it to do that again. When I next found myself paying attention, Schlein was several paragraphs farther in his introduction.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"...Magikal interference with the performance of others is not only allowed, it's expected! Once you're out of a round, you may not use magik on anyone else remaining in play, or your whole team will be disqualified. Failure of any team to complete a task will put it on the Wheel of Misfortune, where one team will be eliminated after the end of each day by a spin of that day's most successful group. Once all teams but one have been eliminated, the members of that team will be pitted against one another in a life and death struggle for the Grand Prize—a commission to work for the famous Mistress Montestruc!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't have to glance into the room to see the silhouette that appeared in Bytina's expanded image. When I had sat with Bunny to watch Sink or Swim: Zurik, I'd gotten the impression of plenty of long, red hair piled up on the head of a formidably statuesque female form. Because the rest of the figure was in shadow, I had no idea Mistress Montestruc's race. All that was visible was a glimmer that could have been satin or a glistening</div>
<div class="paragraph">hide. Bunny cooed at the glimpses of huge, glittering gemstones around Mistress Montestruc's neck, waist and wrists.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein went on with his spiel. I could have recited it with him. "This fabulously wealthy and reclusive heiress has business interests across the dimensions. Who knows? You may end up president of a shipping company, operator of a casino, or running errands for the lady herself in her fantastic villa in the exclusive dimension of Nola! All this to one lucky contestant at the end. And now—will our teams Sink or Swim?" In my mind I could see Schlein wave his hands. "Sink or Swim: Perv," etched themselves in huge green letters on the air then dissolved.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here's what happened yesterday!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">More dramatic music, over which Schlein offered peppy narration. I had noticed that no matter which game or contest Bunny viewed, the commentators were all relentlessly cheerful, remarkably stupid, and endlessly talkative.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The All-Pervects really got into it with the Dragonettes. Where they had lost ground with the Volcano Challenge, the All-Pervects really surged back into the lead with the eating contest. At the gun the four Trolls and a dragon team had consumed nine whales, and the All-Pervects, nine and a half! What a mouthful that was!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Next, the Sorcerer's Apprentices, who won the Free Pass Challenge on the Acid Trapeze the day before yesterday, got to sit out the Wheel of Misfortune with the rest of yesterday's winners. The Dragonettes, the Gargoyle Girls, Sid's Slashers, Garonamus, the Bald Guy with Muscles, and the Sharkbait teams all had to spin to see who goes home! What suspense! What terror! What a surprise when Sid's Slashers drew the unlucky straw!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A trumpet blew a scale of descending notes, indicating disappointment. Tananda and Bunny added their sighs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we're happy they were here. The rest of the teams are still raring to go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Fanfare!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Since we're past the halfway point in Sink or Swim: Perv" Schliney went on suavely, "we invite our on-the-spot odds-maker</div>
<div class="paragraph">to give us his insight into how the contest is going. Will you all welcome—The Geek!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">My ears perked up at the familiar name. I had known the Geek for a long time. He was a Deveel, well known around the Bazaar. The last time I'd seen him, coincidentally, was about the same time I had seen Markie. He had foisted her off on me to try and destroy my reputation in the Bazaar. To say there was no love lost between us was to make the relationship sound warmer than it was.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Geek, welcome."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Schlein, always happy to be here."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Yes, that was the Geek, all right. He sounded oily enough to grease a castle drawbridge with his tongue. Not a bad notion, now that I thought about it. I wondered how I could engineer that happy accident, and whether I could sell tickets. I knew plenty of people who would buy one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Temper, temper, I chided myself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Geek, you've been watching the action since Day One. Give us your feedback, and let us hear your predictions for the outcome of this most thrilling contest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, Schlein, we've lost a few contenders. I gave good odds that the Battling Bugbears would have made it through to the final round, but when the Imperators tripped them up on the obstacle course, all bets were off. Then the Imperators got their own clocks cleaned by Sid's Slashers—my odds-on favorites—who just lost the Wheel of Misfortune challenge. Then there was the problem that the Gargoyle Girls had against the always-dangerous Second Lieutenants with Compasses, but eventually won out. As for the others, I told you from the beginning the odds in their favor were too long to bet on."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll bet you did!" Schlein retorted perkily. "So, as we go into the next round, tell me the odds on the remaining teams. What's your angle on today's contest?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, Schlein, the Ogre-wrestling contest has always been a favorite of mine..."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_22" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36325872" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36325874" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-One <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Did I forget to mention that?" B. ELZEBUB</div>
<div class="paragraph">Before I knew I had even gotten up, I found myself on the threshold of Bunny's dimly lit sitting room. Tananda sprang up from the squashy chair in the corner near the fireplace and folded herself around me like a very tight-fitting straitjacket.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Tiger, how are you doing?" She kissed me thoroughly, which is just a Trollop's way of saying hello.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Mmmph mppphhffpp!" I replied, in no real hurry to extricate myself. She was a wonderful kisser. Too bad I had come to think of her more as a sister than a potential love interest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is that all you can say to me?" Tananda asked with a wink.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi, Skeeve," Markie said shyly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Couldn't stand eavesdropping any longer?" Bunny asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I heard the Geek talking," I said, trying not to sound sheepish. I felt my way through the illusion that Bytina spread across the room to find myself a place to sit. "I guess I was curious. His angles are usually bent in some way."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't see how," Bunny said, frowning. "These are games of skill, not chance. You can't deal a volcano off the bottom of the deck."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I understand where you're coming from," Tananda acknowledged. "The Geek's only as honest as the facts that can be checked."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We all gazed at the image.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek looked about the same as when I had last saw him, but his race lived a very long time compared with Klahds. Schlein looked dapper and sincere in a white collar and blue-flowered tie. Between the red Deveel and the green Sittacomedian, a huge chart appeared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Here are my picks in reverse order. At twenty-five to two against, Sharkbait! Next up the list, I give the Gargoyle Girls twelve to one. The Bald Guy with Muscles, our only surviving one-man team, is at nine to one. The Shock Jahks comes in at five to two. The Dragonettes are at three to one. I give Garonamus three to one. The All-Pervects are at even odds."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein interrupted him. "But the real surprise is how well the Sorceror's Apprentices are doing. You've got them at six to one to win today's matchup!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's right, Schlein," the Geek said suavely. "This underdog of a team—no offense to the Canidian in the ranks!—has survived every one of their tasks, even the dangerous Crocodile Cage Match. Frankly, I'm amazed. You'd think any team that had a Klahd in it would be history from the get-go. But no. He's not holding them back too much. So, they're a team to watch. But the All-Pervects are still my number one pick."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you hear that? His number one pick!" Schlein announced to the audience. It responded with roars of approval. "Yes, Perv has reason to be proud of its Perverts!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Booooo!" the crowd roared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I mean "Pervects, of course! The All-Pervects are the top of the chart!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">More cheering. Schlein wiped his brow.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Klahd on a team?" I asked. "I'm amazed he hasn't been toasted by now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The others shot me an impatient look. I shut up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Images of the teams popped into view next to their names on the chart, then each picture spread out around the room, increasing to life size so they were easier to see. The All-Pervects were fierce, four males and two females in coveralls that made them look like they meant business. The Bald Guy with Muscles wore black trousers and a skimpy shirt without sleeves. He snarled at the magician capturing him in crystal. For a moment, the image shook. I chuckled. He had psyched out the magician. I bet he was a tough competitor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The laugh died away in my throat as I turned to the next bubble. The Sorcerer's Apprentices looked strangely familiar. I gawked at the faces of three Pervects in matching pastel jumpsuits, one Cupy in a flannel sleeper, the Canidian in question, and one Klahd. One freckled, red-headed Klahd: Bee, formerly of Her Majesty's Army of Possiltum. My blood seemed to freeze in my body.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are THEY doing in there?" I exclaimed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, Skeeve," Bunny squealed, clutching my arm, "I forgot to tell you when I got home. The Myth-ka-technic University group entered Sink or Swim! See? They named themselves after you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They did?" I thought about it. Sorcerer's Apprentices. I might have liked Skeeve's Sages or The Spellbinders better, but Sorcerer's Apprentices wasn't bad. "I guess they did." A horrible realization came to me. "Is this why they asked me to teach them? For a GAME?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I guess so," Bunny said. "Aren't you happy this is why they needed you, and not some nasty reason?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"For material gain?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And why is this suddenly a problem?" she asked. "Isn't that why you wanted to learn magik in the first place?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—" Honesty compelled me to stop and admit that to myself. My own motives had not been pure. I'd thought only of magik as an adjunct tool to help me in my first profession, theft. "But why didn't they mention it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tanda cuddled in on my left side. "I guess, Tiger, that they didn't want you to know. They might have been embarrassed." I frowned. This from a woman who was scarcely ever embarrassed about anything. "You might have said no. You know what you just said. Maybe other teachers would have had scruples against helping amateurs crib for a contest for pure monetary gains."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Garkin would have, I realized. He kept trying to tell me to study magik for myself, but I'd been young and stupid, like these kids were. No, they hadn't been stupid—I had. There were so many questions I had not asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Did Chumley know about this?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—" Tanda's green cheeks deepened to the color of spinach. "Yes, he did. He told me, but he'd been 'sworn to secrecy, what?'" she added, in an imitation of her brother's cultured speech pattern. "And he asked me to keep it mum. Believe me, I thought about letting you know, but I couldn't see the harm in it. After all, it's not like they were dragging you in there with them."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But they are!" I exclaimed. "I mean, what if something happens to them? I'll be responsible for giving them a false sense of security."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You did nothing of the kind," Markie assured me. "I was here. I saw how you encouraged them to get into the game and try. Even my horrid nephew prospered, and I thought he was a forlorn hope."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So YOU knew, too."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie nodded. "Frankly, I was hoping that spending time with you would make him realize he didn't want to enter the contest, but you cannot tell kids anything. You are selling yourself short, Skeeve. I think you've given him and the others a chance at surviving it honestly. I wanted you to give him the confidence not to have a tantrum and get distracted. That would be the worst thing he could do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It could be far worse," I said severely. "Have you seen some of these contests? He could get killed! All of them could! What about Bee? I can't believe Massha would hand me a green youngster and expect me to turn him into a killer contestant!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ooh, look, there he is!" Bunny said suddenly, picking up Bytina to increase the level of sound.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the side of the arena, a perky Sittacomedian stood with my former students. She was interviewing Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"...Surprised to see someone from Klah in the competition," she was saying. "Tell me, how did you come to join us here on Sink or Swim?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, I was just learning some extra magik—Ooof!" He stopped as Jinetta edged into the picture and nudged him hard</div>
<div class="paragraph">in the ribs with her elbows. "I met these folks on Klah, and well, we all get along pretty well. I never heard of the contest before. They liked me enough that, when they left Klah, they convinced me to come with them. They said it would be fun."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And is it?" the winsome reporter asked with a huge smile toward the crystal ball.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee nodded vigorously. "Oh, yes, ma'am. It's about the most exciting thing I've ever done!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's going to get killed," I pronounced glumly. "All he ever wanted was a head start on his new profession, and he's going to die in a game show. I thought I was helping him!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You ought to be proud," Tanda said. "He's taking a chance. Most of your people never get the opportunity to really test themselves like this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny agreed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everyone at the unicorn show was really impressed when I said they were all your students. The Geek is right. They're doing really well."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How?" I demanded. "They're still as raw as steak tartare!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, you wouldn't believe it," Tananda assured me. "You'd never know they're complete amateurs. I've never seen Pervects cooperate with any other race like that, well, since you and Aahz, really. The whole group operates like a well-oiled machine. They split up a task and tackle it. You'd think they had the details of every event planned out in advance."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Knowing the Geek, someone might be tipping them off," I said worriedly. I scanned the other teams and groaned. Dragons! Trolls! Landsharks! Deveels! The opposition looked like the Who's Who Compendium of Tough Competitors. Next to them, my students looked like a field trip from a junior high school.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But they all take an oath to play fair," Bunny insisted. "They wouldn't cheat."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If they were told that being given the information was part of the game, they may not be aware it was cheating. Remember, they really are new at this. They won't know they're being manipulated," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you sure?" Bunny asked. "Melvine sounded pretty savvy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think it's all window-dressing," I said. "He bluffed a lot. He'd say he knew how to cast a spell even when he had no idea."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about the Pervects?" Tanda asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"College students," I moaned. "They believed everything their professors told them. They would take anything an authority figure said at face value."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shh!" Bunny said. "The game is beginning."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_23" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36326162" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36326165" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Two <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"We're not dead yet." M. PYTHON</div>
<div class="paragraph">The team pictures vanished in a dazzling array of colored lights. Schlein emerged in the center of the coruscation and smiled directly at us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And for our first task tonight, the Hot Potato contest! Yes, this is a very popular competition. All of the teams will send a representative to the Arena. This is a very special hot potato, as all of you know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">An irregular brown oblong appeared in Schlein's hand. He tossed it up and down a couple of times. "It gets hot then hotter then hottest! The player who handles it last is the winner! Of course, the one still holding onto it when it explodes loses. And occasionally we lose a couple of audience members, too, but it's all in good fun. So, who will win...Hot Potato?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The invisible orchestra produced a deafening fanfare. The lights died away, leaving eight spotlights pointing down at the stage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, who will the Sorcerer's Apprentices send?" Bunny asked, bouncing up and down in her seat clutching a handkerchief between her hands. "The Pervects can't handle fire. Tolk will burn his mouth! And Bee—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">In a moment we had our answer. On the floor of an arena with deeply raked sides, eight figures each took their places on a circle of light. A huge Troll, an Imp, a male Pervect, a female Jahk, a Gargoyle, a muscular man without a hair on his head, and a flying shark stomped, strode or wriggled into view. They were joined by a tiny figure wringing his hands together over his head in a sign of victory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Melvine?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't worry about him. We're pretty impervious to heat," Markie said, waving away my concern. "It's one of the first things you learn in fourth grade. That's the Fire Elemental class."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein appeared on the center of the circle of contestants. He held up the brown potato, and tossed it to the Troll. The Troll caught it between thumb and forefinger and threw it to the next contestant in line, who passed it on at once. It didn't look like a challenging contest to start.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was wrong. Before the vegetable had made a complete round it started glowing slightly. Sweat breaking out on the face of the Imp told me that it had grown almost too hot for him already. He tossed it away and rubbed his palms together. Disdainfully, the Pervect received the missile and sent it on. The Jahk threw it to the Gargoyle with a pained shriek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That hurts!" she cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, sweetie, suck it up!" Tanda advised the image. "You're a Jahk!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gargoyle had no trouble holding onto the potato, but he wasn't very good at throwing. The bald male had to dive for the potato, and tossed it in his hands until he all but batted it toward the shark.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Faster and faster the glowing spud went around the ring. It burst into flames on the sixth round. The Troll yelped and started batting at the fur on his arms. Flames licked up and down his limbs. He had set himself on fire. While he was batting out the fire, the potato hit the ground.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're out!" Schlein's voice called.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aarrrgggghhh!" the Troll snarled. He stomped away. Gingerly, the Imp snatched up the potato and flicked it in the direction of the Pervect.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervect held out his hands for it. I thought it was pretty brave of him, since fire is one of the few things that could harm his kind. At the last moment the flaming missile took a curve. Someone in the circle was trying to keep it away from him. The Pervect snarled and reached for it with</div>
<div class="paragraph">his own magikal force. The missile did a right angle in mid air and headed for his palms. It looked like he had it in the bag, but at the moment before impact he winced, closing his eyes. The potato dropped straight down, hitting the ground. The Pervect opened his eyes, looked at his empty palms, and glared at the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who did that?" he demanded. The others all favored him with innocent expressions that changed to gleeful leers.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All's fair in love and Sink or Swim" Schlein's cheerful voice said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervect gave his fellow contestants one killing glance, and stalked off to join the Troll on the sidelines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Jahk did better in the next circuit, speedily handing off the flickering potato to the Gargoyle. It looked like the Bald Guy with Muscles was going to make it one more round. His jaw was set. Bravely, he conveyed it to the shark then dropped to his knees. He held up his hands, and the crystal balls zoomed in to show them. The palms were blistered and swollen to twice their normal size. I cringed in sympathy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Medic!" shouted Schlein.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A couple of Sittacomedians in whites came racing onto the stage with a stretcher between them. The Bald Man waved them away, though perspiration ran down his face like a waterfall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's just a scratch," he insisted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In unison, Bunny, Tananda and Markie stated, "Men."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He was out. The Jahk joined him next, followed by the shark, who lost half a row of teeth three rounds later. Fortunately, he had several other rows of gleaming white fangs.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Imp, still in the game, grinned madly at the departure of his fellow contestants. He underhanded the now incandescent potato to the Gargoyle. He made it look so easy I was suspicious. Imps were no more immune to heat than Klahds or Jahks. What was going on? It seemed as though I wasn't the only one who wondered about it. A green-skinned, tunic-clad official I hadn't noticed before came marching out onto the</div>
<div class="paragraph">floor, and grabbed the Imp by the wrist. He examined the pink male's palms.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's wearing Burn Cream!" announced the Sittacomedian.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, never!" the Imp protested as he was hauled off the stage. "It wasn't me! They told me it was all right! I didn't do it! It's just magik!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aw, pick a lie and stick with it," Tananda jeered him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cheating!" Schlein said, clucking his tongue regretfully. "That means that Garonamus is disqualified!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek's bubble over the arena suddenly enlarged. We watched as he shook his head ruefully and scratched the team name off his slate. The bubble shrank to a pinpoint.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The official came marching on, picked up the white-gleaming potato and tossed to the Gargoyle. "Game on!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The circle had shrunk just that quickly from eight to two contestants. Melvine seemed to be enjoying himself, returning the glowing potato almost the instant it hit his palms. He started pitching fancy throws, lobbing it overhand or pitching sliders in the direction of the slow-moving Gargoyle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is that the best you can do?" he taunted the stone figure.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Shut up, little man," the Gargoyle grunted, stooping for the potato just in time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A humming arose.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's that?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh-oh, folks," Schlein said. "We're running into magik time! The potato is close to detonation. Will one of these brave competitors give it up before they're both blown into little pieces?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"D'ja hear him?" Melvine said. "You can give up now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, you give up," the Gargoyle countered. "You're just flesh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No Cupy is just flesh, pal! We're Cupies!" Melvine heaved the flaming sphere into the air and hit it like a tennis ball. The Gargoyle caught it in one massive hand. The stone face seemed to contract for a moment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein leaned into his microphone. "These two just won't stop! I'm very impressed! This has got to change the odds for the Sorcerer's Apprentices. Odds-maker, what do you say?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek appeared again. He didn't seem impressed. He looked upset. "This moves the Apprentices up to four to one," he gritted out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I twisted my lips. He assumed they were going to fail. Not MY apprentices!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The humming grew louder and more shrill.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein yelled, "When will they stop?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">But Melvine and the Gargoyle still would not quit. The potato flicked back and forth between them so rapidly it looked like a solid line of flame. The two moved within a couple feet of one another, with the magicians covering the event picking up tight images of their faces and hands. Melvine was sweating now. The Gargoyle looked as though he was, too, until I reali2ed it was the heat from the potato. It was actually melting the stone!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The huge, underslung jaw was set. He clapped his hands on the missile then batted it back. I could see that his palms were beginning to slag. In a moment they would melt off.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gargoyle knew it, too. He batted the potato one more time to Melvine then retired, flapping his hands to cool them. Melvine received the potato then floated it in the air over his head while he accepted the applause of the crowd.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein's voice boomed over the noise.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It looks like—yes, it is—Melvine of the Sorcerer's Apprentices is the winner! But what about the potato?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine looked up at it. The hum had risen to a scream. Red numerals appeared in the air. The audience chanted along as they counted down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ten, nine, eight, seven..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's going to blow," Schlein said, cheerfully. "Everybody duck! Bye-bye, Melvine!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine's face hardened into the stubborn expression I had learned to associate with his refusal to acknowledge what someone else had just said. He glanced upward then thrust his hand toward the blazing globe of fire. It shot upwards, with Melvine close behind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">One of the crystal balls following the match must have been operated by a wizard adept at flying, because it never lost sight of them. They flew up and out of the open arena, heading for the clouds. Melvine waited until he was well above the crowd then stuck his fingers in his ears.</div>
<div class="paragraph">High above him, the potato detonated deafeningly, sending flaming sparks off in a hundred directions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wow, what a finish!" Schlein said. "Melvine, of the Sorcerer's Apprentices!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I found myself cheering wildly along with the others. "That was amazing!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Very stylish," Markie said, applauding. "Did you teach him that, Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, not really—" I began.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He sure did," Bunny said proudly. "Melvine learned it from seeing him save us all from that explosion!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein appeared among us again, wiping his brow. "Well, that was dramatic, my friends. We've never come so close to having the potato blow in the head-to-head competition. I have to tell you, most of the first row was already heading for the door when—can you believe it?—that Cupy drove it right up into the stratosphere! Wait, I'm getting a message from the judges." He put a finger in one ear and seemed to be listening. "Yes, they are awarding an extra point for style to the Sorcerer's Apprentices. Way to go, guys!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I cheered and stamped my feet. "Great job, Melvine!" I yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">This game show stuff wasn't that bad after all. I sat back to enjoy it. I had always felt that most of the sporting events Bunny viewed were kind of stupid. I felt no connection to images seen in a crystal ball, but this—these were my own students.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next round was a challenge between paired teams. The Shock Jahks and Sharkbait went up first, chosen by small white feathers that floated out of the air and lit on the team</div>
<div class="paragraph">captain's heads. One from each team had to walk on a tightrope while the others passed items up that had to be assembled before the walker reached the other side. In deference to the shark's mode of locomotion, she was enclosed in a tube of magikal force.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Touch any side, and it will be as if you fell off," Schlein warned. "The loser will get one penalty point. Once you reach the far platform, you must have a working Jack-in-the-box in your hands. Set it off to get a bonus point!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">We watched breathlessly as the 'walkers' moved forward. The shark assembled her items by magik as they floated in the air next to one of her lidless eyes.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Shock Jahks didn't seem to have much in the way of magikal ability. If an item fell out of their uppermost member's hands, it fell down again. Still, teams appeared evenly matched. I was on the edge of my seat as they neared the second platform.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's the Jahks—no, the Sharks! No! The Jahks are pulling ahead! Hang in there, the shark just flicked her way through the last hoop—Ooh, no! She touched it! Too bad! Penalty!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">There was a loud HONK!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"With one moment left, the Jahk skips ahead and rings the bell! Wow, what an upset! Sharkbait, favored to win, drops out of this round. They'll be on the Wheel of Misfortune later today."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I peered at the flying shark's obstacle course. It seemed to me that the last ring of magik she had to swim through was just a little lower than the others, making it impossible for her to dodge. I shook my head. Maybe I was imagining the inequality. The angle at which we were viewing the contest was an oblique one.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The rest of the teams played out the tightrope game. The feathers chose my students next.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Have you ever been on a tightrope before?" the female commentator demanded as the Sorcerer's Apprentices made their way out onto the main floor of the Arena.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do we look like circus performers?" Pologne asked haughtily. "We're graduate students!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The female beamed into the crystal balls tracking them. "And there you have it, ladies and gentlemen! They're graduate students! But who's going to walk the high wire? You?" she asked Bee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, personally, ma'am, I'm afraid of heights," Bee replied politely.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then, who?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Apprentices went into a huddle on the sidelines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And—break!" Freezia shouted perkily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta withdrew from the circle, took a deep breath, squared her shoulders and marched to the narrow tower. Up, up went the former cheerleader, fifty, sixty, seventy feet. At last she reached the platform. I could see that she was trembling as she surveyed the narrow string before her. She breathed out a whisper.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is she praying?" Markie asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," I said, reading my former student's lips. "She just said 'spoo.'" I grinned. She couldn't fall now. To think that a haughty Pervect would rely in a moment of crisis on the discovery of a lowly Klahd—I was proud of both of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Sorcerer's Apprentices will face one of our most formidable teams," Schlein announced. "The Bald Guy with Muscles!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shiny-domed male hitched one arm through a rung of the ladder and waved to the cheering audience. He swung himself up effortlessly, and stepped out onto the wire.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on!" he roared. "Let's get this over with!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Naturally, a one-man team couldn't supply himself with the necessary components to build his Jack-in-the-box. A host of boiler-suited stagehands jogged out and assembled beneath his tower.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready?" Schlein shouted. "Go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta tiptoed out onto the swaying wire. The others ran along underneath. Bee seemed to calculate the speed of the</div>
<div class="paragraph">wind whistling down into the mountain bowl before throwing the components up to Jinetta. Tolk flicked his share of the pieces up to her with a toss of his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, come on, come on!" I could hear him calling as he ran. "You can do it! You can do it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Among the items Jinetta needed was a piece of string. It would be too light to throw without magikal aid, but Freezia had no trouble whisking it up to her sorority sister. Jinetta tottered along, keeping one eye on the wire and one on what she was doing as she wound the string around the spindle. She tucked the clown-faced doll under her arm, and lost her grip on a small brass box. It fell, but Tolk took a flying leap and caught it before it hit the ground. Pologne pointed her finger at him, and the box rose up within grabbing distance of Jinetta.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Everyone levitate the pieces around her," Pologne said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't tell where to put this one!" Jinetta wailed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think I see where it goes," Bee said. "Slide it underneath the black lever there!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne twisted her hands around, and the box followed the motions.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Runners can't help with assembly," Schlein announced in disapproving tones.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Drat!" Pologne said. "Jinny!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see it!" Jinetta slotted the box into place and shoved the clown down onto a piece she had just attached.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They were only yards away from the other platform. The Bald Guy with Muscles had no magik, but he seemed to be working just as fast as Jinetta with magik and five helpers. Seeing his progress, the Pervect began to panic. Her hands shook, and small pieces rained down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Her team, my students, were right there with her. Bee kept them organized, telling who to send up their next piece when. He had the last section, the wooden flap that formed the top of the box.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And—one!" he cried. He hefted the piece upward. Freezia took it over and flew it to hover beside Jinetta.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Three feet. Jinetta tiptoed along. She began to crank the handle on the box's side. The Bald Guy was two notes behind her. With a grim look in her direction he started cranking faster. So did she. It was a race to see whose song would finish first. Jinetta all but leaped off the wire onto the platform just as the clown's head popped out of the box one heartbeat ahead of the Bald Guy's.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We have a winner!" Schlein crowed. Graciously he escorted Jinetta down from her platform. "Too bad, Bald Guy! Next up, the Dragonettes face off against the Gargoyle Girls!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek's bubble inflated again to take center stage. The Deveel tried to look gracious about it, but I could tell he was taken aback that the group had prevailed against the muscular male. He clapped his hands, and the fiery letters rearranged themselves. My students were now at a respectable nine to five against.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I held up my glass of wine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To the Sorcerer's Apprentices," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"To you," Bunny said. "Those kids could never have pulled it together without you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They did all the work," I said modestly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, really? Who scoped out the sites ahead of time? Who sat up all night working on curricula so they would learn something?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"C'mon," I said, embarrassed. "Let's talk about something else."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you remember when that team from Crocodilia blew the Jack-in-the-box round?" Markie asked, adroitly changing the subject.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wait a minute—yes, I do," Tananda laughed. "That was hilarious."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What happened?" I asked, curious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, the whole thing was a mismatch," Tananda said. "Their feet aren't made for walking on something narrow. They should have given that poor female a tube like the shark's. Watching her scooting along the wire upright, going 'Ooch! Ooch! Ooch!' every step! I was on the floor!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And at the last minute she dropped it," Markie said. "It was a hoot. Her teammates dove for that box like dolphins after a fish. Too late. Crash!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Since I was now passionately interested, the ladies shared their favorite Sink or Swim stories with me. I kept half an eye on the broadcast, waiting for the next moment when my students had another chance to shine. I was enjoying it all.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_24" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36326729" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36326731" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Three <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I think the dragon's cheating." BILGEWATER*</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And now," Schlein announced, gathering our attention once more, "today's third round! This is a free-for-all involving all of the groups still in the running. If one of the losers from the previous round wins, they get to give their penalty point to the team they triumph over! If they lose again, they're out of the game, so this is a crucial contest!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">All seven of the surviving teams assembled on the vast floor. Schlein settled to the floor in their midst, beaming with all of his shiny white teeth.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You all have a designated area to which you must go. Your team name is on a sign overhead." Schlein gestured, and the names lit up around the perimeter of the huge room. "That's all. Or is it all?" he asked, with a witty look at the crystal ball which must have been next to his shoulder. "In order to get there, you have to get past your opponents, who must prevent you getting to your safe spot. Anything goes! And to make this REALLY interesting, we are bringing in some of our house champions! Welcome the She Spider!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gasped as a tremendous black arachnid lowered itself into the Arena. It was so big the hairs on the joints of its legs looked like marlinspikes. Its multiple eyes glinted. Schlein stepped up and pointed toward a complicated gizmo that the stagehands wheeled into place behind her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The way to get past the She Spider is very easy. All you have to do is shoot an arrow into the target over her head. That will dump this barrel of water on her head. She hates water!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The invisible orchestra played WAAA waaa waa waaaaaaa!</div>
<div class="paragraph">* We'll give you this one—from the graphic novel DUNCAN AND MALLORY by Mel White and Robert Asprin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The spider and her apparatus were at the center of the stage. I wondered how anyone would run afoul of her. There was plenty of room to avoid her reach.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We also have Sergeant Pep-up's Mutileers!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">These were evidently famous and popular. As a host of purple-uniformed soldiers marched in to wild applause, the orchestra struck up a tune, and an unseen men's chorus sang, "We are the Merry Mutileers! We cut off noses, hands and ears! Hup two three four, you're going to die today! Here's to the Merry Mutileers!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda was singing along. She gave me a shy glance and fell silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They're cute," she said. "I dated a few of them once."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do they really mutilate the contestants?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, not most of the time!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gulped. The Mutileers were followed by a couple of Ogres in crash helmets, nine Imps with bludgeons on skateboards, and a barrelful of screeching monkeys. I'd thought the Arena stage huge, but it filled up pretty quickly with all the 'house champions.'</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A-one," Schlein began the count. All the players braced themselves, facing toward the haven they had to reach. "A-two. A-three. Go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Free-for-all was right. The chaos that ensued looked like Free Sample Day at the Bazaar. My students started out in the direction of their free space, only to be intercepted by the Gargoyle Girls. The stonefaced males and females matched every move the Apprentices made, dodging left and right, with big grins on their gray stone faces. Pologne's expression turned impatient, and she flung a hand upward. The Gargoyle nearest her went flying overhead. It landed on the back of the Dragonettes' dragon, who turned around with a roar, looking to see who had done that. The Apprentices scattered as the dragon charged them, followed by the Trolls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My students didn't have the bulk or the strength, but they could move. Melvine took to the air and thumbed his nose in</div>
<div class="paragraph">the dragon's face. It spewed out a hot jet of flame at him. Melvine easily ducked upward. The dragon spread its wings to follow him, and knocked half the Shock Jahks off their feet.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sharkbait saw its opportunity. The whole school flitted neatly around the dragon's whipping tail and headed towards its glowing sign and freedom.</div>
<div class="paragraph">They had not reckoned with the Bald Guy with Muscles. Clambering up the She Spider's tower, he evaded her grasping legs easily, and leaped down on top of the two leading sharks. He rode them with one foot on each, punching at their sensitive gills. The rest of the school flew at him, mouths open to tear him to shreds. The Bald Guy merely smiled, as if this was what he had been waiting for all his life. He disappeared in a waving welter of tails and fins.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I caught sight of Melvine emerging in the middle of a circle of Pervects, their fangs gleaming as they moved in on him. He looked terrified. With a wild yell, Bee came swinging in on a rope and dropped into their midst, distracting the Pervects enough for Melvine to gather his wits.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF! They vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I just spotted the two of them as they appeared near the line separating the Sorcerer's Apprentices' free spot from the rest of the arena floor. Melvine staggered and shook his head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, no, you don't," Schlein's voice chided him over the loud speaker. "No magiking your way to safety! Uh-oh, here come the Mutileers!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Before Bee and Melvine could race over the line, several of the uniformed soldiers charged them. They retreated into the midst of the melee, where the Gargoyle Girls were duking it out with the Ogres. Freezia was in the middle, repelling blows with bursts of magik. She shrieked every time one of them got near her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Fresh meat!" a Gargoyle yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine turned and punched him in the face. The next moment he dropped to his knees, clutching his throbbing fist.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ooh," I groaned in sympathy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They always do that," the Geek observed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Haw, haw, haw," the Gargoyle laughed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, ugly!" Bee taunted him. When the stone being turned to look at him, Bee stuck his thumbs in his ears and wiggled them. The Gargoyle lumbered after him. Bee ducked around the nearest Ogre. It seemed to shrink and become less hairy. I realized that Bee had thrown Datspell on both of them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gargoyle grabbed the now disguised Ogre by the shoulder and spun it around. He landed one solid punch on the chin. "Bee" just staggered back half a pace then returned the roundhouse with interest. The two of them began to pound one another, to the delighted cheers from the audience, who had caught the whole transformation. Bee helped Freezia to her feet. Freezia tossed opponents out of their way as they ran to rejoin Melvine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wheee-oop!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">On the other side of the She Spider, I spotted Jinetta running away from a trio of Imps on skateboards. She ducked around the stand of bows and arrows meant to disarm the spider, swung underneath the gigantic arachnid herself, and rolled. The spider noticed Jinetta and reached for her with one hefty claw. It just missed her ankle. The Imps swung their clubs at her. They whanged against the metal frame supporting the She Spider, making it ring. The spider whirled around on her silk thread and clawed at them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta emerged from the other side, right into a mob of monkeys. They screamed and clambered up her body and perched on her head. She pulled one after another, throwing them at the irate spider. Distracted, she didn't see the Imps coming around the corner after her. They swung at her. Jinetta flung them back with a wave of magik. More Imps homed in on her. With a set jaw she started banging them into one another. They staggered and fell down. Within a moment, they were up again.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne and Tolk had made it about halfway across the stage to the free space when a purple-clad Mutileer seemed to</div>
<div class="paragraph">pop up right out of the stage. Tolk ducked underneath the soldier's sword, and grabbed the man's ankle in his teeth. Pologne ripped the soldier's helmet off his head and started belaboring him with it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">More Mutileers came out of the floor to the aid of their comrade. In no time Pologne and Tolk found themselves at bay, leaping back to avoid swinging swords and jabbing pikes. Pologne turned several of the weapons against their wielders, but she and Tolk were greatly outnumbered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Funny, it looks like the house champions are targeting my students," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No," Tananda reassured me. "They pick on everyone. Sergeant Pep-up likes to keep things moving."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, really," I said. "Look!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The uniformed soldiers seemed to be everywhere. Several of them were in between Bee, Melvine and Freezia and the safe haven. Freezia was flagging, her arms no longer held as high as she fought to push the Mutileers out of their way. Bee looked tired, too. He was the weakest magikally, with only three really good spells at his command, none of which were much use in this onslaught. He had no other reserves than his muscular strength. Melvine helped keep both of them from getting hurt, but I saw sweat running off his little bald head. What's more, when one of my students did manage to score a hit on one of their opponents, it didn't seem to slow them down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Someone's protecting them magikally," I protested.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I heard a scream. Sergeant Pep-up himself had picked Pologne up in his arms. He dashed into the middle of the stage and heaved her into the waiting clutches of the She Spider. It bit her on the neck, and she went limp. The spider started wrapping her up in silk. I was furious.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A soldier raised his sword, and struck. Melvine went down with a bleeding gash on his head. The Mutileer threw the Cupy over his shoulder and headed toward the center dais.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta ran after them. She gasped as she saw her sorority sister in the spider's web, and dashed toward the rack of equipment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's rigged," I announced as I saw a phalanx of uniforms surround the remaining Apprentices, now maneuvering them all toward the spider's lair. "They're all going to die. I have to get in there."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You?" Markie asked. "You can't get involved. Those kids signed an agreement to participate."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They didn't know it was going to be rigged," I argued. "Look!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">One after another bowstring broke as Jinetta tried to fit it onto a bow. She reached for another one. If she didn't manage to get the bow functional and shoot the arrow into the target, Pologne was going to be strangled by the giant spider.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe one," I said. "But I'll bet they are all frayed."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They'll cope," Tananda said. "They have to."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia grabbed a string out of Jinetta's hand and ran her hands along it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Attagirl," Bunny cheered. "She must be strengthening it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta managed to get it onto the bow and notched an arrow. ZING! She hit the bull's eye over the spider, which ought to have released the deluge of water.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Nothing happened.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta looked around for an official. No one stopped the contest. Pologne's body was wound in nearly invisible threads from head to foot, and the spider was busily spinning more into the cocoon.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have to go," I said. I got up, but I couldn't take my eyes off the images. Tolk took a blow to the skull from an Imp sailing by on his wheeled board and went down howling. Bunny grabbed my arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You can't," she said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why not?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Because—because you've been banned from Perv. Remember?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned and sank back in my chair. It all came back to me now. The run-ins with the police, the long fruitless searches, the friend who turned questionable businessman and got me</div>
<div class="paragraph">declared permanent persona non grata and blacklisted forever from a whole dimension.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There weren't too many people who could make a claim like that.</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the moment, I couldn't say I was grateful for the honor. I watched the fighting going, wishing that I could leap into the insubstantial images and take part in the action. The longer this mess went on, the greater the chance that one of my ill-prepared students was going to be pushed into a situation where he or she might be killed, and no lectures on teamwork or planning would make that any better.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What can I do?" I demanded, stalking up and back. The more I watched, the more worried I became. "I've got to stop this now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Disguise spell," Tananda said promptly. "It's what you do best."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waved away the suggestion. "A disguise spell is fine, but I can't pretend to be just anyone. I need to be impressive enough to step in on Perv and get people to do what I want them to. I need credentials. I can't just appear as a bystander and try to straighten things out."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You have the perfect disguise," Tanda points out. "Aahz."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I stopped dead in my pacing. "I couldn't do that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, you could," Tananda insisted. "Remember, I know more about him than you do. He's got an impressive record there. He was at the top of his class at MIP, and except for you, he's the most visible part of M.YT.H., Inc. What could be more perfect? Or Pervect?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He wouldn't go for it. I could really louse up his reputation."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda came to put an arm around me. "Sure he would go for it, Tiger. Think about it—the story's gone around that he's lost his powers, but if you show up and toss a little magik around, they'll believe he's gotten them back. That won't harm his reputation, it'll enhance it. Let Aahz take it from there, if anyone is ever stupid enough to challenge him. But you need to get those kids out. They're out of their depth."</div>
<div class="paragraph">In the crystal, I watched Markie's nephew surrounded by a the entire contingent of Imps, raising their clubs to bludgeon him. Melvine started the elemental whirlwind, but they were prepared for him. A robed magician stepped in and waved his hands. Melvine stumbled to a halt, confusion turning to alarm as the Imps started swinging. Throwing his arms over his head, he began ducking and weaving between the wheeled menaces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Besides," Bunny said, "all this mess was Aahz's idea in the first place. He's the one who sent the Pervects to you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd better ask," I began weakly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll ask him, Tanda insisted, and BAMFed out before I could stop her. She was back in a twinkling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go," she confirmed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It took absolutely no time to assume my former mentor's face and form. The fact I was several inches taller than Aahz wouldn't make any difference in my carriage; Aahz's reputation for keeping strangers (and apprentices) at arm's length would help me maintain the subterfuge. I patted my cheeks, but I felt no difference, nor could I see any in the mirror.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Perfect," Bunny said, walking around me to check the disguise. "Or, should I say, Pervect? Remember, don't smile. Aahz hardly ever smiles, unless he's really ticked off."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't feel like smiling," I grunted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gleep?" my pet asked plaintively. He sniffed me up and down, not able to reconcile my scent with Aahz's appearance. He and Aahz had never been fast friends.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's me," I confirmed, patting him on the head. "Don't worry, Gleep. This is for a good cause."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'd better go," I said impatiently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not so fast, handsome," Tananda said, cuddling up close to me. "You don't think we're letting you go in there alone, do you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't risk taking any of you with me," I said. "If they catch me, I could be locked up for years."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They won't catch you," Tananda said. "But don't go in there without backup. It might take all of us to pull your students out of danger."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What were you always telling those kids?" Bunny added, throwing a hand toward the image of the struggling team. "Team up and delegate?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned. "Don't throw my words back at me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you mean them, or don't you?" Bunny challenged me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course I do!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Then, it's settled." She nodded to Tananda and Markie.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_25" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36327177" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36327179" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Four <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I'm dealing myself in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">M. HALL</div>
<div class="paragraph">Thanks to Bytina, we were able to pinpoint exactly where we needed to appear on Perv. Though the Arena was supposedly in a "secret location concealed deep in the mountains above a lonely valley visited by no living creature since time began," the magik the place was giving off, not to mention the triangulation provided from thousands of crystal balls dimensions-wide, made it a beacon to the naked eye, let alone to a sophisticated piece of technology.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We arrived on the lip of a natural ampitheater. Winds whistled around us, nipping the tips of my ears. I ignored the discomfort as I stalked down the aisle past thousands of cheering spectators enjoying the brawl happening on the vast round stage below. The hollow stone bowl magnified the sounds so I could hear every grunt, every yell, every cry of pain. I jogged down the endless staircase with the three women behind me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Every hundred steps or so there was a landing. About the fifth one, an adolescent Pervect in a vest and bow tie stepped out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sir, may I see your ticket?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Out of my way," I snarled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm afraid you can't go into the lower sections without a ticket."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was not in a mood to argue. I threw him out of the way, using my levitation skills instead of the Pervish strength I lacked. He landed on top of several spectators. Blurting out apologies, he crawled out and hurried after us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop, sir. You have to stop."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda wriggled up and attached herself firmly to my elbow, playing the part of Trollish eye candy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Don't you know who he is?" she asked the usher.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, I don't. And if he doesn't show me a ticket, I'm going to have him thrown out!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I ignored him, but by that time we had attracted the attention of several other ushers, not to mention hundreds of paying customers. I kept them at bay with magik, intent on reaching my destination. Any minute now one of them was going to call security.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Wave to the nice people," she murmured. "Make them think you're a celebrity. Aahz would."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The next time I made eye contact with an audience member, I put on a big fake smile and waved to her. When she poked her neighbor and pointed, I waved to him, too. Pretty soon the whole march down the aisle, ushers and all, looked like the arrival of a star. I prevented them from following me up onto the stage. Even the ushers seemed to be having doubts.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks for the escort, guys," I called as my small party scaled the sheer steps to the stage.</div>
<div class="paragraph">My students were still in the center. Pologne was now wrapped up in spider silk. Jinetta and Bee were up on top of the framework, trying to dislodge the barrel of water with magik and brute strength. I applied my own power, but it wouldn't budge. It wasn't meant to move! More cheating.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I grabbed the first person I saw, a young Deveel woman in a tight pink skirt and white blouse who clutched a clipboard to her chest.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who's in charge here?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">She looked at me and my three companions and put her nose in the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sorry, sir, but this is a closed set." She spoke into her lapel, and several large Pervect males in uniforms appeared at her back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want to see the boss," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're trespassing, bub. If you don't leave under your own power right now, we'll be happy to assist you," said the Pervect with the most gold braid on his sleeves.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Power?" I asked, a slow smile twisting my lips.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Creating a band of magik around the entire group of guards, I squeezed them all together into a tight little knot. I was so angry that I channeled more energy than I ever could before. They started gasping, their faces turning interesting shades of green.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Tiger, take it easy!" Tananda cautioned me. "Leave them some breath so they can answer your question!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sir," the captain squeaked. "Sir, what can we do for you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who is in charge of this program?" I asked, very sweetly. "I want to see him. Pronto."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Executive Producer," the head security guard gasped out. "His name's The Geek!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take us to him," I said. "The Geek knows me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The knot of guards shuffled ahead of us as a single unit. Tananda and Bunny each held onto one arm, gauging whether or not I was going to fly off the handle. I tried to keep myself under control. I should have realized when I heard his name that he had to be more involved than just offering an analysis of the teams. He was responsible for all this! Markie toddled ahead of us, playing the part of my adorable little niece.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Lookie there, Uncle Aahz!" she said in her cutest voice, pointing a tiny pink finger at a Deveel in a shiny suit. "There's Mr. The Geek right now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I thrust my way past more crew members, heading for that familiar face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek huddled under a scenery overhang with a collection of production personnel. There was a clutch of magicians in robes and holding huge, multifaceted crystal balls— members of several species but one union, to judge by the insignia prominently displayed on their right sleeves—and young women of various species holding clipboards. He turned at the sound of his name. First he saw the tightly clustered knot of guards. Then, over their heads, he saw me. He did a double-take then started running away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hold it, Geek," I ordered. Releasing my hold on the guards, I threw out a loop of power, tightened it, and dragged him up</div>
<div class="paragraph">and over the heads of his doorwardens. I landed him in front of me on his feet, nice and easy, but I kept a firm magikal grip on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz," he choked out. "You've—you've got your powers back. How—nice?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I grunted, in my best imitation of my former mentor's voice. "And just in time to use them to right a major injustice. One YOU are causing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"M—mmm—mm—me? A mmm—major injustice?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You. You remember Markie, don'tcha? And Tananda? And Bunny?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He certainly did remember Markie. She smiled sweetly up at him. In spite of the grip I had on him, the Geek tried to climb the sky.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz," the Geek squeaked. "Old buddy! Let's make this a nice, quiet talk."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's," I said. "But first you stop that contest that's going on right now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nnn—nn—now?" the Geek stammered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I took a fistful of his collar and raised him over my head. It was part levitation spell and part genuine anger, but he ended up in the air, dangling from the end of my arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">From out of nowhere, a second contingent of the usual kind of muscle came running towards us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Call them off," I said softly. "Call them all off."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek, whose complexion began to darken as soon as I picked him up, waved his hands. The security guards backed away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, stop that contest. I insist." I shook the Deveel at every syllable.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda came over and cuddled up against my right arm.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz, don't kill him," she said, in her most honeyed tones. "That gets so messy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shook the Geek again, who was doing a fair amount of vibrating all by himself. "Why not?" I growled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, if you do, they'll have to find another odds-maker."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So what?" I asked. "This one's broken. They need a new one."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz, Aahz, buddy," the Geek pleaded. "What is it you want?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I've been watching this contest from K—from the Bazaar, and it just looks to me like you're shifting the odds to suit yourself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What do you care?" the Geek countered. "It's not like you've met any of these kids before." Enlightenment dawned on his peaky face. "You must have money riding on it. Put me down and let's talk insurance bets, Aahz. I promise you won't lose a single silver piece. How about it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I don't have money riding on this," I snarled. I wasn't imitating Aahz; the fury emanated straight from me. "I wouldn't bet on anything you had a hand in."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, I can see you might be a little reluctant—Could you put me down? I think people are starting to notice." He pointed over my shoulder.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced back. Several Sittacomedians and a few Trolls wearing SOS insignia had started to move in on us. I flung back a hand, and the security staff went flying.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Call off ALL of your security. And stop that contest! Now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll stop it, I'll stop it!" the Geek exclaimed. "Just put me down!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I lowered him to the floor. "Do it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek gestured to another young female Deveel in a short, tight skirt. She scurried over, brandishing a pencil and a clipboard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Take this one down. Dip the lights. Go to commercial," the Geek ordered.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The young woman spoke into her collar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Immediately, several flunkies in matte black clothing ran around to do her bidding. Sergeant Pep-up's men suddenly sprang to attention and jogged off the field, leaving their opponents looking confused. Teammates picked one another up from the floor, and limped to the side where white-coated Pervish medics waited with stretchers and little black bags to have their injuries seen to. The monsters all went back to the sidelines. Some of them paused to have makeup daubed onto their faces by Pervects in white smocks carrying palettes and brushes. The spider lowered herself to the ground, where her</div>
<div class="paragraph">palps were shined by a couple of Deveels with buffing brushes. Tolk hovered around his fellow teammates, dispensing dogtor magik and sympathetic whines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein's resonant voice echoed over the darkened arena.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And now, folks, a word from our sponsor, Caca Doodle Doo, the leading manufacturer on Perv of Realistic Doggie Doodle with Lifelike Odor that Sticks to Your Hands, a product of Edvik Enterprises..."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't have time to remark upon the coincidence. I had more important things on my mind.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Are you in charge of this entire enterprise?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not so loud!" the Geek pleaded. "Come into my office." He urged me towards his bubble. I raised an eyebrow at the ladies. Tananda and Markie melted away into the crowd. Bunny attached herself to my elbow and accompanied me in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waited until the side sealed up, leaving us alone in the soundproofed sphere.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now," the Geek said, sitting down at his desk with his hands folded together on top. "What is troubling you, my friend?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's very simple," I said. "I want you to halt this contest right now. It's off-balance, and people are going to get hurt!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can't do that, old friend," the Geek said, regret written large on his ruddy face. "Danger is the name of the game. It spikes those ratings right through the roof. The sponsors love it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm going to spike YOU right through the roof," I growled. "Let me put it this way: I can handle the concept of danger. Sometimes it's fun, but only where there's a chance that I can win in the end—I prefer a good chance, but I'll take what I can get. But I have been observing this contest today, and I have seen good evidence that you are skewing the games to make sure certain teams are eliminated. That's bad, considering that your contestants come into this with the understanding that they have to play fair. That means they are expecting you to play fair, too. Right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er, I'm not really admitting anything, Aahz," the Geek said nervously. "You're not, not recording this, are you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I planted a hand on my chest. "Would I be as underhanded as you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Frankly, yes," the Geek said. "I've known you for centuries, Aahz. You're doing some fine talking about fair play, but you haven't always been completely honest in your dealings."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"On Deva!" I bellowed. "On Deva, anything is fair if you can get away with it. If you want to play it by those rules, I can do that. You didn't get away with it. I saw you. These fine ladies saw you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Trollop," the Geek scoffed. "A Klahd and a Cupy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">My voice dropped again. "You know who they are. And, I might point out, that the Klahd you are making fun of is a close relation to a very powerful man with important connections in the Bazaar and elsewhere. So, show some—respect."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I shoved him back in his chair with a thrust of magik, just to remind him I had it. "Now, I can go public with what I saw, and get your sponsors to yank their backing, or maybe you'll just have to stop interfering and tilting the odds the way you want them. I assume you have heavy bets standing on certain teams, and it would look very bad if those bets became public knowledge."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I can fix everything!" the Geek said. My fist came up under his nose. He blanched to pink. "I mean, I won't fix it, I'll unfix it! I mean."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You mean you're gonna make this a fair contest, don't you?" I asked, going from gravel-voiced to sweetness in mid-sentence.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes! Yes! That's what I mean! It'll be even, I swear it! From now until the end, when the winner is declared, I swear, there won't be a single deliberate irregularity. Aahz, this is gonna cost me a lot of money. Can I count on you to keep it quiet, if I do what you want? Please?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," I said. I dropped him. The Geek scrambled up and beckoned to a third fetching Deveel in a very short skirt. She dashed into the bubble and put her pencil to her clipboard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Honey, here's what I want you to do..." He reeled off a long list of instructions. She scribbled notes. I folded my arms</div>
<div class="paragraph">as I had seen Aahz do so many times, and glared at the Geek to make sure he didn't back out on any part of his promise. "Oh, and get the lottery box, Honey. Bring it up here. I've got to—take a look at it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Honey gave us a toothy smile and vanished.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is that all right, Aahz?" the Geek asked, wringing his hands together. "Is everything okay now?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure it is," I said. The Geek relaxed and headed for his chair. Before he could sit down I beckoned with a finger, and the chair came rolling over to me. I sat down in it and leaned back with my arms behind my head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What are you doing?" he asked, aghast.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sticking around," I said. "I just want to make sure that you keep your promises. I'll leave once this contest is over— no matter who wins. It'll be a nice surprise for both of us."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, it will," he said weakly. He gestured to a stagehand to bring him a chair for him and one for Bunny. I admit it was rude of me to take a seat and not offer it to her, but I had to make the point that I was in control. I glanced up at her to see if she was angry, but she wore a very pleased grin.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek noticed the expressions pass between us and gulped loudly. "Er, may I offer you a drink? Miss Bunny?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Music played to amuse the audience while the stage was blacked out. The Geek lowered his bubble down to the Arena floor to issue a few orders in person. Bunny sat drinking her Pink Wyvern cocktail with a ladylike little finger stuck out while I stumped up and back in the Geek's little office, trying to look as much like Aahz as possible. I spotted the Sorcerer's Apprentices a few yards from us then hastily glanced away. I knew they couldn't possibly recognize me in this disguise, but I was afraid one of my mannerisms might give me away.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Unfortunately, they had spotted us, too. Jinetta touched her sorority sisters' shoulders and pointed in our direction. The three of them came marching over.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi, Bunny," they said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hi, girls! I can't believe how well you're doing," Bunny said. "I didn't know you were going to be in this contest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Freezia began, "we didn't want to say anything in case someone overheard us. Teams have been sabotaged in the past before they got to the contest. Skeeve isn't mad, is he?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, no!" Bunny assured them, giving them a big hug. "He's very proud of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">They all smiled with relief.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good," Jinetta breathed. "We all have a great deal of respect for him. We will always think of him as our real teacher."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I felt myself tearing up a little bit. I reached into my belt pouch for a handkerchief and blew my nose loudly to conceal dabbing at my eyes. That brought Jinetta's attention to me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz. Are you connected with this game somehow?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"N—no, I'm not," I said. "I'm just here to observe fair play."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I see," she said. "Will you be here later? I want to talk with you when this is all over."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure," I said. I didn't plan to be around to have my disguise penetrated, so I felt free to promise almost anything. She stalked back to the others. I could tell they were talking about us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny noticed. "You could eavesdrop," she reminded me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Somehow," I said, "I am not sure I really want to hear what they're saying."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The bustling ended, and the Geek returned to join us in the office.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Up," he ordered it. Obediently, the silver bubble rose high over the great bowl.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein appeared in the middle of the stage and held up a graceful hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let the brawl recommenced</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_26" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36327720" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36327722" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Five <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"My compliments to the chef." S. TODD (THE BARBER)</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, we were sorry to say farewell to the Bald Guy with Muscles," Schlein confided to the audience at the start of the game the next day.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Awwwww," the audience chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I could see now that they were prompted on what to say by a gigantic cluster of fireflies that zipped around out of view of the crystal balls and spelled out words. At the moment they said, "Disappointment!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yes, sir," Schlein continued, "it was a close one, but the Wheel of Misfortune stops where it will, when it will! And on this last day of Sink or Swim: Perv, we rejoin our celebrated odds-maker, the Geek, for his take on today's contests! Ladies and gentlemen, the Geek!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The fireflies spelled out "You love him!" and the audience went wild.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein appeared in the bubble. Dozens of magicians in robes appeared around it, all pointing their crystal balls at us. Bunny, wearing a very tight peach-colored dress that squeezed her natural attributes both up and down, perched on a stool next to the Geek's odds board, and twiddled her fingers at the handsome Sittacomedian. I stood near the wall with my arms crossed. Somewhere below, Tananda and Markie were keeping an eye on my students. One way or another, the Sorcerers Apprentices would be safe.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And we have guests today!" Schlein announced, never missing a beat. "Who are these fine people, Geek?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, this lovely lady is Bunny," the Geek explained, nervously. "She's going to be pointing at numbers for me today. Show 'em a two, Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Beaming, Bunny obligingly stood up and indicated the nearest number two.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well done, lovely lady!" Schlein exclaimed. "And this gentleman?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He's a well-known businessman and magician who has interests in the Bazaar on Deva, but as you can see, he's a native of this wonderful dimension where we are having our game here today. His name's Aahz—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"—Mandius," I finished, holding out a hand to shake with Schlein. "Aahzmandius is the name."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I squeezed hard so he wouldn't think about the lack of scales on my skin. He withdrew, shaking his fingers to restore circulation.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Pleased to meet you," Schlein said. "Well, now, Geek, let's hear today's odds, ably assisted," he confided to the magicians hovering outside the sphere, "by the beautiful Bunny."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek went into his talk. "Of course you know that Sharkbait took it in the teeth last night, and went out during the brawl. Not one single fishie was able to get to the haven before time was called. That leaves the Shock Jahks at eleven to one. The Gargoyle Girls moved up the list with an excellent showing, with only one of their teammates still out on the floor at the whistle. The Sorcerer's Apprentices are four to one. They suffered a setback when Tolk the Canidian lost all his teeth dragging that Gargoyle around the floor. They've been replaced in his jaw by our dentists, but he's a sore pup this morning. The Dragonettes are still at three to one, and the All-Pervects continue to be my favorites for the championship."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny pointed to the relevant details. I caught her frowning at the second-to-last line, but she switched on the brilliant smile again in time to be captured from several angles by the magicians covering the interview.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you hear that, folks?" Schlein asked, beaming for the crystals. "And we move along to the next in our eating contests. You've seen quantity eating in one of our earlier episodes. Now, we challenge the contestants to eat quality—or</div>
<div class="paragraph">lack thereof. We've got five colored feathers to see who will take one in the guts for the team. Are you ready?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">While he had been talking, the globe drifted down so that we were once again in the midst of the contestants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah!" the teams shouted. Tolk, a bandage wound around his jaws, leaped up and down. The dragon, under tight control by one of the Trolls on its team, bobbed its head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein stepped out of the bubble and pointed heavenward. "Here come the Feathers of Fate!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Drifting lazily on the stray breezes that whisked around the huge stone bowl, the five feathers dropped toward each team. I watched them for a moment, and noticed a telltale jerk or two. The feathers were being guided by some unseen hand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Geek," I growled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Deveel turned to me apologetically. "Aahz, we've got to balance the rounds. What if we have the dragon up against the Cupy? It's no contest! The audience will hate it. I swear, there won't be anything in the food but food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I had to settle for the compromise. At least it wasn't putting my students at a disadvantage. "All right."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein was on the spot to announce the unlucky diners. "And the Feather of Fate has chosen—Grunt, for the Dragonettes!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hefty Troll with dark purple fur came forward, waving to the audience with both hands.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He'll be joined by Meghan of the Shock Jahks. Here comes the red feather—Nita for the Gargoyle Girls! For the All-Pervects, Crasmer. And Bee, for the Sorcerer's Apprentices! Come on and sit down at the table, folks!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This one's for all the cookies, folks," Schlein announced. "Oops, sorry, kids, I shouldn't mention cookies. You don't want to think about cookies or anything you can toss. Here come our chefs! Now, remember the rules. This one's not for penalty points. You have to eat what's in the bowl AND finish it. No dinner, no dessert! The survivors—I mean, the winners—of this round go on to</div>
<div class="paragraph">our final challenge, the Monster Monster Challenge, which will determine who will Sink or Swim!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, the servers have been blindfolded," Schlein continued smoothly as five white-coated Deveels carrying trays felt their way blindly into the room. "They don't know who they're giving each dish to. You've got to pray it's something you can stomach. If you don't hold it down through the end of the round, you lose, and your team goes home. No consolation prizes—but we will give you something for your tummy. Ready?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready!" chorused the contestants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This way, servers! Follow the sound of my voice."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is the best elimination round I've ever come up with," the Geek confided as the bubble rose out of reach of the contestants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sucker bet," I growled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not always," the Geek said. "You won't believe how some of the players manage! A little old lady in the Imper contest won this round. Turns out she just couldn't taste anything, so it didn't bother her."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Below, the white-coated waiters made it to the table. They deposited covered dishes in front of each contestant then pulled back as the covers lifted off all by themselves. The audience let out an "Ooooooh."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I winced. All of the dishes looked sickening, but to my horror Bee had received a bowl of purple pseudopods that were all too familiar. Pervish cooking! I glared at the Geek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I told you, the All-Pervects were favored to win," he admitted sheepishly. "If they happened to get some home cooking, well—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So you cheat."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Balance, Aahz, balance! Anyway, it doesn't matter. Crasmer got, hmm, let's see: stone chips in sulphur gravy. Look, the Gargoyle's eyeing that. It's a delicacy where she comes from!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein appeared beside them holding an old fashioned dinner bell. He tinkled it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Soup's on!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee looked as terrified as I felt. I was sorry for him. It shouldn't befall a decent Klahd like him to have to face Pervish food twice in a lifetime, let alone twice in a month. The animate goo writhing in the dish started to feel its way toward the rim. Bee halfheartedly shoved them back. His companions shouted encouragement from the sidelines.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I felt like adding my voice to theirs. I wanted to shout down to him that he'd done this successfully once before. He could do it again! But I also knew that he dreaded putting any of those things in his mouth. My own stomach heaved as I remembered the flavor and texture, not to mention the MOTION.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Troll stared at his bowl full of live spiders and scorpions. Could that be fear on his face? I had never known a Troll to blanch at any physical contest, no matter how difficult. It took him a moment to overcome the revulsion. Resolutely, he reached out a hairy paw, seized a wriggling tarantula, put it in his mouth and crunched it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">In moments, his face began to swell up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's the matter?" Schlein asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'b allerjhic to sbiders," the Troll said. "Gotta—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He got up and staggered toward the wings. The medics followed him, clutching their black bags.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein turned to the rest of the team, waiting anxiously in the wings. "Sorry about that, Dragonettes! You're out!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on, Bee! Come on!" the rest of the Sorcerer's Apprentices chanted. "Eat it eat it eat it eat it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Though his face was pale, Bee shot his comrades a hearty thumb's up. He took his spoon and resolutely thunked one of the pseudopods. It stiffened then went limp. With a visible gulp of nervousness, Bee scooped it into the spoon and brought it to his lips. The crowd fell silent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Face wrinkled, he stuffed the mouthful in, and swallowed it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The crowd went wild.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Next to him, Crasmer hunched over the plate of mashed stone, spooning it up as fast as he could, but each mouthful</div>
<div class="paragraph">seemed to take an eternity to chew. I cringed at the cracking, crunching sounds, wondering if the teeth were grinding the rocks, or vice versa.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Shock Jahk sat transfixed, staring at her entree, which consisted of one single, round, white object twice the size of my fist that sat in the middle of her plate. The entree stared back. It was an eyeball, garnished with a sprig of parsley.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about you, Meghan?" Schlein prompted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—I—I can't do it!" The Jahk sprang up from her place and fled to the waiting arms of her teammates. The Shock Jahks all looked, well, shocked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A Sittacomedian female with a microphone was in time to pick up the comment from the team captain, who was comforting his weeping teammate. "I didn't realize that when you said you were holding the contest on Perv that the contest would BE Perverted!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Gargoyle shoved away her empty bowl and rose to her feet with her hands clasped in victory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The female commentator flew to her side and held out the microphone.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Congratulations, Nita, and with five minutes to go!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," the Gargoyle said, winking at her companions. "And I just want to say—ulp."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You want to say ulp?" the Sittacomedian asked, with a puzzled glance she shared with the audience.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I mean—urp!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And what does that mean?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The meaning became evident a moment later. Nita the Gargoyle dashed for the nearest receptacle and rejected the vile green and yellow mess that she had eaten.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too bad!" Schlein boomed, sympathetically. "Only two contestants left. Will they make it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I crossed my fingers. Bee was doing well. Except to stun his food long enough to eat it, he didn't look at it. Each bite went down very, very carefully, and he waited in between each to make sure it wasn't going to come up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Crasmer was following a similar pattern. The Pervect challenger looked nauseated. There weren't many things one of his kind couldn't eat, in spite of the difficulty I'd had convincing my students of that, but unrefined minerals had to be on the short list. Scoop, crunch, gulp. Scoop, crunch, gulp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Slam, scoop, gulp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Scoop, crunch, gulp.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was neck-and-neck to see who would finish first. Two more bites to go. One more—!</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was it!" Schlein announced. "And here's the bell! We have two winners! Step up, kids. And how was it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Awful," Bee said. "Worse than army food."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ha-ha," Schlein said. "How about you, Crasmer?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What he said," Crasmer agreed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, there you have it, folks! Going to the final round are the Sorcerer's Apprentices and the All-Pervects, your Perv home team!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The audience didn't need the fireflies to go completely insane with joy. Bunny and I danced around the Geek's little office. On the ampitheater floor, the teams ran out to congratulate their champions. Both contestants waved bravely to the audiences.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stay tuned for the Monster Monster Challenge. And now, a word from our sponsor, Blix Restaurants. If you want the finest in Pervish cooking, or the best sausages, cabbage or stuffed peppers from any dimension, eat at Blix!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the very mention of food, Bee turned green. Crasmer turned greener. In unison, as if they had rehearsed it, they were violently sick. Stagehands rushed in with wands to clean up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">As soon as the lights went down, I saw Bee and Crasmer being sick. It didn't matter—the lights had already gone down. They had succeeded, and without any interference from the Geek's tweaking the odds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who woulda known that the Troll was allergic to spiders?" he asked innocently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Well, almost no interference.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What happens now?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Bunny began animatedly, "the remaining teams have to make it through a maze. In the maze is a fearsome monster. The one you face is chosen at random depending on the color of the marble you pick out of the lottery box—Oh, I'm so sorry, Geek! You tell it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek sat back with a big smile on his face. "It's okay, honey. I don't mind a bit. You just proved you're a fan. Wouldja like to make a commercial for me? With those gorgeous looks of yours, I know I could get some more viewers."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well," Bunny was flattered, "I'll think about it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How about the Great Skeeve? Is he a fan, too?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He doesn't watch game shows," I said flatly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too bad. An endorsement like his would be worth a fortune." The Geek sighed. "Let's go congratulate the winners."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_27" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36328167" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36328169" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Six <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Follow the yellow brick road." I. JONES, PH.D</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And now," Schlein boomed, "the final team elimination! And, folks, we've seen plenty of teams eliminated down to the last player, right here! Yes, indeed, it's the Monster Monster Challenge!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Congrats to both of you," the Geek said. We had landed on the main floor. Bee was still pale from his ordeal, but he looked okay. I didn't want to have to call for a doctor, not when the group was so close to achieving its goal. Incredible danger still lay ahead. On the way down, Bunny had regaled me with a list of monsters that the teams had faced in this contest before. It read like a Who's Who in Killing and Dismemberment. The Geek was pulled aside to review a list one of the Sittacomedian girls had on her clipboard.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, babe," Crasmer said, leering at Pologne. "Why are you hanging around with lowlifes like that Klahd? You ought to come over to our team. We're the winners. Not second-rate species like those."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne snarled at him. "Are you insulting my friends, you ugly creature?" She raised a manicured set of talons and beckoned dangerously. "Come on over here and say that again!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, now," I said, getting in between them. "Nice job you did on the last round," I congratulated the Pervish champion. I gave him a hearty slap on the back with a solid magikal kicker. It knocked him stumbling. I grinned at my students, hoping none of them could penetrate my disguise. "Good luck to all of you in the final round."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks," Crasmer said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned to the Sorcerer's Apprentices. "That was heroic of you, kid," I said, slapping Bee on the back in turn. "It ain't every demon who can face a bowl of Pervish food and live."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, it wasn't the first time," Bee admitted. "Master S— my last teacher got me to try it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Like it?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not a chance! No offense, sir!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Apparently the name of Skeeve was not to be said out loud in this venue. I was amused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta shot me a conspiratorial wink. "His teacher had us try a lot of things we would never have done before."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Like teaming up," Melvine put in. "I'm not much for running with packs, but these kids have gotten to be my best friends."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We put up with him," Pologne said. The two of them made faces at each other, but I could tell it was affectionate banter. I hoped Markie could see it from wherever she was watching. Maybe I had launched M.Y.T.H., Inc., Mark II.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk leaned against Freezia, who was idly scratching his ears. The Canidian perked up suddenly, and came ambling over on all fours to sniff my wrist up and down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, cut that out!" I roared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sure sure sure," Tolk said, retreating. Instead of the suspicious expression he had worn before, he had a silly grin on his face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oops," Bunny said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I better get out of here before Bee does Dispell on me," I whispered to her. I turned to the contestants. "Good luck to you all, and may the best team win."</div>
<div class="paragraph">We hurried back to the bubble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek did his round of handshakes then joined us.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, we're gonna see some action," he said, rubbing his hands together. "We hire one of the local supermodels for this part."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A very slim, very tall Pervect female in a tight, pale yellow evening dress sashayed out of the darkness carrying a ceramic box that rattled as she walked. Wild whistling erupted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, calm down, gentlemen," Schlein instructed the audience, coming over to offer an elbow to the young lady. He</div>
<div class="paragraph">escorted her to a fancy carved table. "It's time to draw lots then meet your monster!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A hulking Pervect male came forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Brucel will draw for the All-Pervects."</div>
<div class="paragraph">After a hasty conference, Tolk was urged up to the table.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And Tolk for the Sorcerer's Apprentices."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I folded my arms to wait for the results. The Geek took my action as a criticism. He ran a finger around inside his collar.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz, I want you to know this is fair. It's entirely fair, I promise! I can't help it if the monsters are killers! It's all part of the game."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, yeah." I steeled myself. This was my own doing. I had demanded a fair competition, and to make it fair, I had to stay out of it. This might be the hardest thing I had ever done. Whatever happened, I had prepared my students as well as I could, considering their inexperience, and I had ensured that they had an honest chance. They wanted to do this. They had come here willingly to be part of Sink or Swim, and they had earned the opportunity to go all the way. I couldn't do a thing without calling a halt to the entire proceedings. I looked down at my apprentices sadly. "I know."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Brucel stuck a hand into the box and came up with a marble.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The All-Pervects have chosen orange!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oooooh," breathed the audience.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tolk planted one flat paw over his eyes and shoved the other into the lottery box. He handed the marble off to Schlein without looking at it.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Sorcerer's Apprentices have chosen purple!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aaaaah," the audience responded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We'll be back in a moment, after this word from Duzzido, the detergent that can get any stain out of your finest clothing! Duzzido it? You bet it does!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The stage went black for thirty very long seconds.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Welcome our final two teams!" Schlein announced as the lights came up again. "First, the home team, those guys and</div>
<div class="paragraph">gals in green—the All-Pervects! Yes, here they are, Pervect in every way! Welcome your home team!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The All-Pervects, whittled down to five members by the preceding rounds, stepped into the spotlight from the right. They had on fresh jumpsuits of pale green that contrasted well with their complexions, but did not conceal the bandages around a wrist here, an ear there. They looked grimly determined.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And the challengers!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Booo!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced down. The audience was actually cheering and waving its arms, but the sound that reached me was disapproval. The Geek shrugged.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"People like to have bad guys and good guys, Aahz. It's nothing personal. If, and it's a big if, they make it to the final round, we'll reverse the audience reaction. You'll see."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Welcome the Sorcerer's Apprentices!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I could see that my students were unnerved by the catcalls and hoots from the audience, but they stepped up bravely. They wore jumpsuits like the All-Pervects, but in a rainbow of different colors, none of which was green.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can't tell the players without distinguishing marks," the Geek explained.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Except for the fact that one team is nothing but Pervects."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, there's three on the other team. That made it okay with 29% of the focus group we're running if the Sorcerer's Apprentices should possibly manage to pull off a win. Honestly, Aahz, it's not likely."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah," I said shortly. "I knew that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You won't do anything rash to me if something goes wrong, will you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I looked at Bunny. She shook her head.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No. Of course not."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, it's never 'of course' with you, Aahz," the Geek said. "I just want your assurance, that's all. Can I offer you a side bet on the outcome?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"NO!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned my back on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">There were two paths marked on the floor that led in opposite directions, one purple and one orange. From my vantage point, and from the views provided by a dozen crystal balls arrayed about the Geek's bubble, I had a view of a roofless, hatbox-shaped building. The paths led to diametrically opposing points that each led into a maze which took up half of the hatbox. Each maze was beautifully designed, with marble statues and pillars, tinkling fountains and potted plants for decoration. In the center, where the mazes met, was a set of double doors. Before them rose a pedamented pillar on which sat an ornate golden key, of the hefty variety chatelaines used to rap the knuckles of lazy servants.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's the door to the Chamber of Success," Bunny explained. "The team that gets there first has to go through to win. There are traps and deadfalls in the maze, and the walls move around to confuse the teams."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I nodded. I was much more concerned with a sealed chamber the shape of a drum in the center of each maze. Fire and smoke issued from carved openings in the walls of the drum in the orange sector. Cascades of hot sparks flew out of the sealed room in the purple sector. Both concealed monsters were roaring and banging around inside their prisons. The very walls shook.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The teams entered the maze. I could follow all of the action easily, in one or more of the crystal balls in the Geek's floating office. The All-Pervects went into their half like an army infiltrating enemy territory. One of them went first while the others covered him from the entrance. As soon as he signaled that he was safe, the others followed one at a time.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hup! Hup, hup, hup!" they chanted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">So, they'd practiced before they came on the show, too. No team was as inexperienced as the oath of amateur status would lead one to believe. They were simply unpaid. I grinned to myself.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The point man trotted down the first corridor. He reached the corner and paused, waiting for his companions. When they had all reached his location, he set out again, only to disappear from sight.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ayieeeee!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Deadfall," the Geek said. "You warn them and warn them and warn them, and they still all fall into the first one. I just won a thousand gold pieces on that. Sucker bet."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervect's friends hauled him out. They felt their way along more cautiously, refusing to trust the floor unless they tested it first.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek's engineers had a surprise around the next corner for those who used a toe instead of magik to try out the floor. A female Pervect, in her first turn on point, prodded a tile with a cautious foot. She looked up at the sudden whistling noise above her head. A gigantic weight flattened her to the ground. The others yanked her out from underneath it and propped her up against the wall. She looked winded and bruised. The team leader spoke to her in a low voice. She waved them away. They hup-hup-hupped onward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned my attention to my students. They, too, had approached the maze with caution. Pologne, the research expert, was talking, probably giving them statistics on which way to turn at each crossroads. Bee kept track of the direction they were going, navigating by the stars overhead. Melvine was at the head of the group. The deadfall took him by surprise, but his reactions were quicker than the Pervect's had been. He only dropped a foot before he caught himself and hovered over the empty square.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nyah, nyah, nyah," he shouted, thumbing his nose at the sky. "Is that the best you can do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Boy, that kid has attitude," the Geek said, looking pleased. "The crystals caught that. Great stuff!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not that way," Bunny shrieked as the team turned right. That path led through a narrow gap in shrubbery to a dead</div>
<div class="paragraph">end. As the students turned back, the plants reached out thorny tendrils to grab them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And the Sorcerer's Apprentices have found the Throtde Vines," Schlein announced. "Will they choke, or will they get past them?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I was distracted at that moment by a loud roar. The All-Pervects had reached the big chamber in the middle of their maze where the monster waited. The huge container rocked wildly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bang!</div>
<div class="paragraph">The top flew off, and a twenty-foot-long red dragon crawled out of the box, hissing and tossing its head. It spotted the Pervects, and issued a stream of fire. The Pervects backed up into the nearest niche to confer. I saw them pretending to pound something, or throttling imaginary necks as they ran over their options.</div>
<div class="paragraph">A cloud of leaves blew upward from the left half of the building. My students jogged out of the dead end, unwinding pieces of vine from their limbs. They had escaped from the Throttle Vines, and were just a few paces behind their opponents in reaching the monster's chamber in their own maze. As soon as one of them set foot in the room, lightning began to shoot out through the container's walls, smashing the urns and statuary arrayed about the walls of the small enclosure. Melvine and Pologne flew upward. The rest retreated around the nearest wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Make that louder," I said, pointing at the image. "I want to hear what they're saying!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Is that a weather elemental?" Pologne asked Melvine as they lit down near the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How should I know?" he asked. "Do you want me to go and knock on the door?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That sounds like a really good idea," the Pervect snarled back. "There are only a thousand dimensions inhabited by lightning-spitters. Think you can get home town and date of birth, too?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You're the researcher—you ask it!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Now, stop it, you two," Jinetta said, pushing them apart. "We need to go through that room. We haven't much time."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Jinetta, it's breaking out," Bee said. He had been keeping an eye on the room. They all peered around the edge of the doorway. A huge catlike backside reared up out of the ruins of the container, topped by a translucent, jointed tail with a stinger. The tail plunged down and stabbed the floor, then it reared up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">ZAP!</div>
<div class="paragraph">A lightning bolt shot out of the creature's backside. It went out the door, narrowly missing the team, and impacted on the far wall, destroying the bas relief of a shepherd and some kind of woolly ruminant native to Perv.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A Manticore!" Freezia shouted. "It's a Manticore! Oh, no!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right," Jinetta said, patting the air with her hands. "We know how to deal with one. We've done it before. Everyone calm down. Stay away from its tail. Don't let it grab you in those paws. The jaws are strong, too. Freezia, are you ready to levitate? Together we might be able to lift it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Freezia felt the air.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The lightning's sapped the magik!" she cried. "I've only got about half of what I stored when we started."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm full," Bee said. "I used magik to Cantrip over that moving floor section, but I replenished my store as soon as I did it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So did I," Tolk said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I had to use some not to fall when the trapdoor opened up," Melvine said. "And flying takes up some energy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's only three of us with enough magik," Jinetta said. "Well, then, perhaps we can capture it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Do you see a gum-gorse tree anywhere?" Melvine asked, baring his teeth. "We're toast!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We don't have to make it adhere to anything," Jinetta said, remaining amazingly calm. "All we have to do is get past it. We have proven that they are easy to confuse."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"When they're drunk," Bee reminded her. "This monster's sober as a judge."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Even after Tolk cured Evad's headache he remained slower in the uptake than we are," Jinetta countered. "We will keep his senses busy until all of us, or at least one, can pass him and get through the rest of the maze. Only one of us needs to secure the key to win!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Good idea," Melvine said. "What do you want us to do?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready one of your tornadoes," Jinetta instructed. "It won't matter if you have any force left after that. Freezia, use your retrieval spell to pull its tail to one side. We don't want it aiming lightning at any of us. Tolk, you're good at dodging. Keep it busy."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What about me?" Bee asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I have an idea: can you reverse your Cantrip spell to make someone clumsy?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee grinned. "I never needed it before," he said. "I was always clumsy enough on my own. But I'll try."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready?" Jinetta asked, holding out her hand. The others piled theirs on hers, palms down. "Break!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The team crept over the threshold. There must have been an alarm in the floor, because the Manticore, or rather its back half, redoubled its efforts, shooting lightning bolts and jabbing around with its spike. The students had to dash to get behind chunks of fallen marble. Melvine started twirling his finger in a circle. A tiny cyclone appeared on his palm. I was impressed how much the spell had been refined over the last several weeks. He tossed it up and down as if it was a coin, and sauntered out into the center of the room.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hey, Manticore," Melvine taunted. "Your mother stings her own butt! The city dump called. Your new face is ready. Hey, I hear your application for village idiot was accepted."</div>
<div class="paragraph">At the sound of his voice, the Manticore's head went up and his tail went down. He spun in a circle, his lion face the very picture of joy. I noted that he had pale whiskers, one of which was bent.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Cupy!" shouted the Manticore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Evad?" Melvine exclaimed, breaking out in a huge grin. He threw the mini-tornado over his shoulder, where it sputtered into nothingness. "No way!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The huge being came loping over to seize Melvine in a big hug and roll over with him in its paws. "Oh, Cupy, good see you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Evad!" The rest of the Sorcerer's Apprentices recognized the Manticore that we had extracted from the town of Humulus. They rushed over to pet and hug him. I found myself grinning like a complete idiot. The contest was in the bag now.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Evad?" the Geek echoed, rising to his feet in outrage. "They KNOW my Manticore? I'm going to call a halt to this contest. This isn't fair!" He started to lower the bubble. "We'll start over with new monsters."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I put my hand on his shoulder and shoved him down.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Who says it isn't fair?" I demanded. "Do you think we live in a vacuum? The chances that a couple of demons might have met in the past is unlikely, sure, given the number of beings in the universe, but are you going to penalize them because it happened?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And lose all that money? The audience wants a fight, Aahz, a fight! I'm going to throw a Minotaur in there. Maybe a Giant Squid, too. That'll up the ante for the outcome!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"So, it's money, huh?" I snarled. "You do have bets against the Sorcerer's Apprentices."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek backed away, his hands up in surrender. "Easy, easy, Aahz! If I didn't know better I'd think that you're the sorcerer they're talking about, except the last time I saw you you didn't have any magik."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Things change," I gritted out, "but they never had Aahz for a teacher. That I guarantee. They'd have been a different group if they ever did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But what about the contest?" the Geek pleaded. "If the audience doesn't see a little blood, they'll riot!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I glanced over at the Pervect side. There was plenty of blood. The team had managed to roll the dragon over on his back. Two of the All-Pervects were binding its legs with magik, but it kept kicking free. I blamed the Manticore's lightning for draining the force lines. They almost had it, though.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They still have to get to the key first, right?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Right, Aahz," the Geek said, his face hopeful. "Is there any way you'll let me—slow them down a little?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">He didn't have to. The Manticore was so happy to meet his friends again that he kept pulling them back into the room as they tried to leave.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"...And when got back from shore leave, escort mission to tropics. Very nice! Hot! Perfumey! You would like! Ever want to come?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Maybe some day," Jinetta said, "but Evad, we have to get—" She sidled toward the opposite door, but he enveloped her with a friendly paw.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And Klahd Skeeve give good idea, sell venom. Visiting wizard very interested! Start sideline with friends. Have money for drinks all around. So, last week, Captain says special mission. Good publicity for Navy! Volunteer? I say me! Here I am. And here is you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That's great that you found a use for your talent," Bee assured him. "We're happy to see you, but we've got to go."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No go! I buy drinks. Skeeve kind. Where Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve's not here," Tolk assured him. "Just us. We're happy to see you, too!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Doubtfully, Evad sniffed, his big furry nose twitching. "Smell Skeeve. Where Skeeve?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, he's not here. Really really really."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Let's get organized here," Jinetta said. "Evad, we're very glad you are safe, but we need to make it through this maze before the other team does!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A frustrated roar from the other side of the wall made Evad raise his eyebrows. "What that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Other team," Freezia said. She dropped into another language that consisted of growls and hisses. She must have gotten interested in Manticore after our previous encounter and taken the time to learn some. "We're in a competition. We have to get to the middle of this maze and secure a golden key before they do or we lose!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You not lose!" Evad declared. "I carry! Which way?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">It was going to be a close contest. The All-Pervects had succeeded in hog-tying the dragon, which lay on the floor, flaming everything within sight. With only a few injuries and no fatalities, the Pervects managed to flee the room and headed off into the second half of the maze.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Pervects and Bee clung to the broad, furry back. Tolk led them out the door.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Watch it watch it watch it!" the Canidian said over his shoulder. "Sometimes the floor falls out from under you!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That way," Pologne said, pointing right.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The All-Pervects turned left.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go left!" The Sorcerer's Apprentices reached a T-in-tersection. Melvine flew upward to look out at the top of the maze. At the lip, he flattened out like a bird smacking into a window.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Magikal force field," the Geek explained. "They all try to do that."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can't get out to see!" Melvine yelled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, I wish I had my detector," Pologne said. "I hate not being able to use technology! We'll go right again." The Manticore galloped forward, only to have to back out of a narrow spot that led to a blank wall. Pologne cried out in frustration.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All right, it must be three rights and two lefts! Left again! Now!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The All-Pervects cleared their last right turn and let out a cheer at the sight of the pillar. They were moving quickly. I could see victory written on their faces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, the Sorcerer's Apprentices burst into view, riding on the back of a full-grown Manticore. The furry beast</div>
<div class="paragraph">galloped into the circular chamber just a pace ahead of the home team. The beast swung wide, depositing its passengers onto the floor near the wall.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Determined, the Pervects poured on extra speed, heading for the pillar. Crasmer, at the lead, was just about to take the key off the pillar when a canine head ducked under his hand, seized the golden object in his mouth and gave them a friendly smile.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry sorry sorry," Tolk said. "I believe that's ours."</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_28" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36328861" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36328863" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Seven <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"Only one will remain." D. TRUMP</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, for the last time, it's not illegal to use the monster from the Monster Monster Challenge as a steed," the Geek said as the All-Pervects surrounded him, shouting for justice. "There's nothing in the rule books. You can do anything you want to the monster as long as you get past it to the Final Chamber. Didn't Schlein say anything goes? Well, it does!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I heard them talking to that Manticore," Grunt argued. "That's collusion."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They picked a marble at random out of the box, same as you," the Geek said, passing his hand over his horned head wearily. "It was a one-in-a-billion chance that they had met the guy before. Look, you might have known the dragon. There was one on the Troll team—you saw him. I'm sorry, fellows. The decision is final. The Sorcerer's Apprentices won. Come on, let's go back and smile for the audience. You don't want the rest of the universe to see Pervects as sore losers, do you?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Why the hell not?" Crasmer asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny and I stood by as the All-Pervects let themselves be bandaged and daubed with makeup by the Geek's numerous assistants. I didn't want any trouble. I wore my most fearsome expression, which Bunny assured me looked just like Aahz with a hangover. Inside I was beaming with joy. My students had won!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda and Markie seemed to shimmer into existence beside us. "Congratulations, Hero," Tananda crowed. "That was fantastic! I was all set for a big fight, but this was better! You should have seen the confusion in the ranks, there. No one knew what to do about it."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"They were all set to mop up blood," Markie pouted, still in character, "but no one liked them being friends. That's mean?</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What's next?" I asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny held up one finger. "Only the final ordeal, to see who wins the grand prize."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ordeal?" I swallowed nervously. "What kind of ordeal?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, it varies," Tananda said. "On Zurik it was whoever could dodge the most bullets. That got a little messy, even for Gnomes. Mmm, I can't remember what Sink or Swim: Mantico did."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was the great Lightning Battle," Markie giggled.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"These all sound kinda fatal," I said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">It came back to my friends that they were dealing this time with people that they knew. That put a different face on the subject.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"All we can do is hope for the best," Bunny said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I think we can do better than that," I said. "I'll just remind him that for every one of those kids who gets hurt, I'll pull off one of his limbs."</div>
<div class="paragraph">A drum roll came from the invisible orchestra. Schlein stepped forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And, now, for the final contest, for the all-over winner, the being who will be awarded a once-in-a-lifetime job with Mistress Monestruc, we present The Final Ordeal! As always, the fairness of this contest will be decided by Frankenmuth, Spalanade and Rockrose, our accountants." Three Sittacomedians in blue suits and striped ties stepped forward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Does anyone know what we're going to be doing?" Freezia asked. "I'm still tired from the last couple of stunts."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Will it be like any of those?" Bee asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It could be worse," Melvine said grimly. "I remember one on Trollia where the players threw knives at each other."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Tananda scoffed. "That one was nothing. Bronze knives that didn't go even two inches into the contestants' fur."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, maybe that's so," Bee said. "So the contest might be geared to the team itself?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"But we're not the home team," Freezia pointed out. "We might get through it, but you're not Pervects."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I won't hurt any of you," Jinetta insisted. "You're my friends!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Whatever happens," Pologne said stolidly, "if I win and any of you survive, I'll give you all jobs—if I have any hiring authority."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"If I make it, I'll heal evetyone," Tolk swore.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Emotions were having a battle royal on Melvine's face. "I really want to win this, guys. But I'll do it fairly, I promise."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll throw it, if I have to," Bee said. "I can't hurt my team. What would Sergeant Swatter say?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I cleared my throat and turned it into a growl. "He'd say do your best, and play fair."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gosh, you're right, sir. You must know Swatter pretty well."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I do," I said, clearing my throat uncomfortably. "And I know the kind of people he'd pick for a squad. Do what you think he would do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee grinned unexpectedly. "He'd figure out some way everybody could come out of it alive, sir. And Master Skeeve would figure out a way we could all win."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I—He sure would. Good luck, kid. Good luck to all of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Thanks, Aahz," they chorused.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein struck a pose. "Step forward the Sorcerer's Apprentices!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The team appeared in a spotlight. They were holding one another's hands and looking young and scared.</div>
<div class="paragraph">We all went up to sit in the bubble with the Geek. The Sorcerer's Apprentices were a team. I was proud of them. In fact, I was sort of proud of me. They had absorbed what I'd been trying to hammer into them about teamwork and delegation and finding their own strengths. I guess I'd done it right. Whatever happened from now on was all their own. I wished them victory.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Schlein swooped in upon the cluster of students and peered at the audience over their shoulders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"The Sorcerer's Apprentices will decide The Final Question with a killer round of Rock Paper Scissors!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gawked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock-Paper-Scissors?" I looked at the Geek. "After all those brutal rounds?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Deveel laughed at me. "You must not watch the show much," he said, leaning back and snapping his fingers. A crystal decanter rose out of a drawer and poured him a dram. "If it looks like the home team is favored, we always have a nonlethal competition set up. The ratings drop pretty badly if we kill off the locals."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, but that's a kiddie game. You're insulting your audience."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"S—Aahz!" Bunny said. "You want something more dangerous?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I waved away her protest. My businessman instincts had kicked in.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Won't this be the opposite of what they expect?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek sat up. 'You think this won't get lively? Watch how we do it. Special effects! Music! Lighting! And there's Schlein giving the live commentary. The man's worth his weight—er, a LOT in gold."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The audience was already chanting. "We want the champion! We want the champion!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You all know the rules," the Sittacomedian instructed the group. "As soon as the count is complete, present your hand. We're playing this for—sudden death!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I gulped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek snorted. "That just means it's not a round-robin contest, Aahz."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh," I said in a small voice.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ready—play!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Spotlights chased around the floor, and sweeping orchestral music boomed up.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One two three!" the Sorcerer's Apprentices chanted. Pinpoint spots lit their hands individually. Two were holding</div>
<div class="paragraph">paper. Three of the others were holding rocks. One had a scissors. Images of parchment scrolls, glittering gemstones, and one pair of gleaming shears overlay the students' hands. The shears attacked one scroll. The remaining parchment covered one gem. The other two gems moved to smash the scissors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Tolk, out! Freezia, out! Bee, out!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">BOOM boom boom, came from the drums.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Three at once," the Geek crowed. "This is great."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I groaned with disappointment for the three students who walked, shoulders hunched, away into the darkness. The music struck up again, more tense than before. The Geek was right: it was thrilling.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The remaining three—Pologne, Jinetta and Melvine—eyed one another suspiciously. Melvine tried to fake out the others.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One two—not ready," he said, drawing his hand back.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop that!" Pologne snapped.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"We will go on three," Jinetta said firmly. "No hesitation. Ready?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Oh, all right," Melvine said sulkily.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One two three!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!" Schlein announced. "Identical choices!" Three rolls of parchment hovered in between the group.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"One two three!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Scissors!" Three pairs of scissors.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!" Three scrolls.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This is remarkable," Bunny said. "The odds of all of them choosing the same item three times running is—"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Nine hundred seventy-two to one," the Geek said, rubbing his hands together. "Hold on, I've got to get some action going on this."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He leaned over one of the crystal balls on his desk and started talking to the Deveel who popped up in it. I ignored the complicated negotiations as I watched my students eying one another.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock!" Three gemstones twirled and threw colored lights on their faces.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Scissors!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Incredible," Tananda said. "How long can they go on like that?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I want to assure you, ladies and gentlemen," the smooth voice of Schlein said, "that there is no collusion between these three individuals. What you are seeing here is unique in the history of Sink or Swim."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">But even phenomena had to end sooner or later. Pologne stuck her hand out with two fingers parted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Scissors!" she cried.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock!" chorused Melvine and Jinetta.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Ooooh," said the audience.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The music rose chillingly. Pologne stared at her hand with an expression of utter betrayal just before the spotlight cut off, leaving her in darkness.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine hunched over and faced Jinetta. "Just you and me now, doll," he said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go," Jinetta said. "One two three."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock!" Once again, they chose the same item. The audience was cheering wildly. The fireflies were drawing hearts, flowers and fireworks.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Paper!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Scissors!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Scissors!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Rock!" Melvine shouted, shoving a fist into the light.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sciss—"Jinetta realized even before she finished the word that she had chosen a loser. "Scissors."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The orchestra rose into a triumphant fanfare. Schlein rushed over to grab Melvine around the shoulders.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Congratulations, Melvine! You are the winner of Sink or Swim: Perv!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Me?" he asked, in a voice that rose to a squeak.</div>
<div class="paragraph">He looked dazed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Snap out of it, kid," Schlein hissed at him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine looked up at him in astonishment. Schlein beamed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come on over here, Cupy. You're setting out on a whole new life. Tell all of us how you feel!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">For the first time since I had met him, the Cupy guy was lost for words.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, sir, I promise I will do my best, uh, especially if I have my friends around me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">He glanced over at the team as the lights came up on the rest of the Sorcerer's Apprentices. Pologne and Freezia were sulking a little, but offered sickly smiles when the spotlights hit them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm sure you will," Schlein said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly the two of them were surrounded by magicians wielding crystal balls to catch every angle.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And, now, I want to bring out the woman who is the unseen presence behind Sink or Swim. Will you welcome the elusive, the marvelous, the very rich Mistress Montestruc!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">A narrow way opened to admit a tall and formidable-looking woman with thick auburn hair.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Congratulations, Melvine," she said, patting him on the head. "You are a very interesting person. I have been watching you since the contest began. Your audacity and confidence interest me. I don't like yes-men, and I don't like people who can't think for themselves. Therefore, I am giving you an assignment that will be a challenge. I'm making you the Chief Executive Officer of one of my favorite business enterprises, Brandex!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">I joined the audience in a general gasp. Who hadn't heard of Brandex? It manufactured a little of everything you could find in almost every store in every dimension I'd ever been. Most small magikal goods probably had "Brandex" imprinted somewhere. They weren't necessarily the top of the line, but they were fairly sound and usually cheap to buy.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm putting you into a position of authority with full hiring and firing power. You'll have some tough decisions to make. You're expected to make a profit, of course. What do you say?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Can I hire my own executive staff?" Melvine asked at once.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The great lady laughed, and the audience joined in, urged by Schlein and the fireflies.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course," she said. "Why do you ask?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine looked uncharacteristically modest. "Well, maybe you didn't notice, but I'm not the natural leader of my team. Jinetta is. I only won by a stroke of luck. I'm not the best researcher like Pologne, or the best magician in the group like Freezia. I'll never be as courageous or organized as Bee or as compassionate as Tolk. In fact, if you rolled them together, you'd have a much better CEO than you'd get out of me. That's the truth. I want them on my team. I'd never have gotten here if not for all of them. If I can't have them," his face screwed up as if he was about to start crying, "I don't want the job."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Of course you may hire them," Mistress Montestruc said. "I will be pleased to have such talented people on my payroll."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine sighed, and his shoulders slumped. "That's a relief."</div>
<div class="paragraph">The shoulders, and his head, continued to drop downward.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"What is happening to him?" the lady cried. "He is shrinking!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Markie burst through the crowd to hug her nephew.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You did it!" She hugged him. "You must have broken the mental block that was keeping you a big baby. You're normal size again!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Melvine looked down at himself. He stood about two and a half feet tall, much more in proportion to his looks than he had at four feet. His new, tiny body swam in the jumpsuit.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah!" he cheered, jumping up to punch the sky. "I'm the Cupy! I'm the Cupy!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Reporters crowded in to interview the winner. Melvine floated up to hover over their heads in the oversized garment, cracking jokes and generally basking in the attention. Markie stayed nearby to keep an eye on him.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The magicians stepped back to view the Geek as he came over to shake hands with the All-Pervects. We followed him out onto the arena floor.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sorry you didn't manage to achieve a victory on home soil," he told them. His face was full of genuine regret. I was willing to bet it was for the lost bets, not the disappointed Pervects. "But you know, there's only one prize on Sink or Swim. Thanks for playing."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah, thanks a lot," Crasmer said shortly. "Come on, guys. Let's go get drunk."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And there they go, your home team!" Schlein announced, as a spotlight hit them.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Not bothering to turn around to acknowledge the cheers and applause, the, All-Pervects stamped off the stage.</div>


<div class="calibre8"></div><h1 id="calibre_toc_29" class="calibre5"><a id="TOC_id36329427" class="calibre9"></a><a name="TOC_id36329429" class="calibre9"></a>Chapter Twenty-Eight <br class="calibre6"/></h1>


<div class="paragraph">"I think it's time to leave." LOUIS XIV</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Sorcerer's Apprentices came over to where Bunny, Markie, Tananda and I stood. Jinetta stood on tiptoe to give me a big kiss on the cheek.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gosh, thanks for everything, Mr. Aahz. You're fantastic. And your partner is the best. I wish we could tell him how grateful we are" she added.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Uh-huh." I couldn't miss the meaning. "I, uh, I see that Tolk told you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta grinned down at the Canidian, who was leaning against my leg. "He did. We all hope you aren't upset that we didn't tell you why we needed your help."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not any longer. I have to admit, when I found out you had come here, I was a little upset that you didn't tell me about the contest."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Well, with all the ordeals you were putting us through, we all thought you knew," Jinetta said, surprised. "I thought you were totally savvy. Was it all by accident?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Er—yes," I admitted, a little unhappily. "I didn't connect the time frame with the beginning of the new SOS contest. I just thought you really wanted some practical experience before you went into the business world. Using ideas I scooped from some of the Crystal Ether network was pure coincidence."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Jinetta and the others looked more admiring than ever.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It takes a big soul to admit that," she said. "You could have lied and told us you did know. I like your honesty. No wonder Aunt Vergetta thinks you're the spink's left nostril. Wait until I tell her! You're a terrific teacher, Skeeve." She crushed me in an enormous hug. The others followed suit, leaving me gasping.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Gee, that's really nice of you," I said, embarrassed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How come you didn't tell us you were coming?" Tolk asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I didn't want to interfere with your style. If you knew I was here, you might not have relied on your own skills to get through."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"And he's been tossed off Perv," Melvine put in, returning from his interview. He was still floating on air. "He's not supposed to be here at all. That's what the disguise is for." He smiled down at me sweetly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"How much more did you hear while eavesdropping?" I demanded.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Enough," Melvine said with satisfaction. "No good blackmail stuff, though. Hey, watch who you're talking to! I'm the new CEO of Brandex Enterprises. These are my executive vice presidents in charge of—the things they're good at." He waved a vague hand. "Do you want a job? I'd be honored to have you. Mistress Montestruc's giving me a humongous budget to find talent."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No, thanks," I said. "I've still got a lot of—research to do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Too bad. We're gonna do big things!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'm happy to do little things for the moment," I said. "I think I can be content with having launched a whole new generation of magicians on their way, and I'm glad to have gotten through this without having been detected."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Hear, hear," Bunny agreed.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Listen," Melvine said, confidentially. "I've gotta apologize. I took the money out of your strongbox and put it in Jinetta's briefcase. I thought if I could get the three little maids from school disqualified as pros I'd have a better chance of winning." He made a face. "Who knew I'd need them all so I could win?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Teamwork pays off every time," I said. "You know that now. But who set off Massha's ring?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That was me," Tolk said, in a very small voice. "Sorry sorry sorry. It was a joke, just like you said. Then I couldn't</div>
<div class="paragraph">turn it off. I'm a doctor, not a munitions expert! Forgive me? The others have."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You bet," I said, ruffling his ears. "I'm proud of all of you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee blushed. The Pervects giggled. "Thank you, Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Aahz! Aahzmandius!" a voice boomed out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I turned in the direction of the voice. It was familiar, but I couldn't place it. Then I saw her.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Waddling towards me, dressed in what could have been the same faded, tentlike house dress she had been wearing when I visited her a couple of years back, was Aahz's mother, the Duchess. The elderly Pervect glared through her little glasses.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Where is he? My little boy! My ungrateful son! Holding back on his mother's millions! No, he thinks that I can get by on air! And there he is!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Suddenly, I found myself under a spotlight. All the magicians who had been interviewing the Geek turned to cover me. I saw my face multiplied a thousand times, each image wearing the same gudgeonlike expression of horrified astonishment.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"He comes to play in this fancy game, but he doesn't come to see his own mother! Just when I'm waiting to make another investment. I can't wait for the capital, you stingy boy! What will the neighbors think? There you are!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Duchess," I said, weakly, backing away from her. My escape was blocked by the dozens of people crowding in to see what all the shouting was about. "How nice to see you."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"My son!" She threw herself at me. "You've lost weight!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">No one, especially not a dozen, multi-focus crystal balls could possibly have missed when her arms sank right through the meaty sides of "Aahz" and wrapped around my much slimmer body.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"It's a disguise spell!" someone shouted.</div>
<div class="paragraph">The Geek went wide-eyed. "If you're not Aahz, there's only one other person who knows everything he does—Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Skeeve!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">The guards on the side of the stage looked at one another, and started heading in my direction. I fought loose from the Duchess's embrace. I had to make a quick getaway. I concentrated on my comfortable little study on Klah, and squeezed my eyes shut.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Not so fast, buddy," a harsh voice said.</div>
<div class="paragraph">I opened my eyes. No BAMF. My transportation spell had not worked. The arena guards had been supplemented by the Perv police force. I stopped counting after the first twenty uniformed officer. The most decorated, whom I assumed had been the one who spoke, held up a short silver wand.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Trying to escape," he said, one eyebrow raised. "Just what we'd have thought from someone with your record."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Isn't that the Great Skeeve?" one of the magicians asked.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Yeah! Get a good angle. We can get this on the evening news!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Just a minute, sergeant," Jinetta said, stepping in between us. "What's the problem here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This Klahd has been exiled from Perv, lady," the officer said. "Having broken the terms of his parole, he's going to spend a couple of years in jail thinking about why he ever bothered to come back."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Sir, I believe you might be mistaken," Pologne said, adding her slight frame to help shield me from view. "This is a game show. There have been a lot of illusions employed during the course of this contest. Why would you think this is the real Skeeve? This is a Klahdish wizard Mr. Geek hired to impersonate him. He's one of the monsters for the Monster Monster Challenge. Wouldn't you be afraid to face a wizard of his caliber?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Frankly, no," the sergeant said, looking me up and down. "He looks like the real thing to me."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"A lot of Klahds look alike," Freezia said. "Are you sure it's really him? It could be that one over there?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bee caught the hint and promptly Datspelled himself into a duplicate of me.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Or one of those two over here?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">Pologne and Jinetta became Skeeves and started moving around me. I took one step back and to the right. Tananda grinned and nodded toward the half dozen people on my left, now all wearing my face.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Stop that!" the officer barked. "This isn't funny, lady. All of you back away from the perpetrator."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Which one do you mean?" Jinetta asked, innocently.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"I'll show you which one." The officer pointed the wand at us. Just then, Tolk gathered himself and leaped into the air, grabbing the wand out of his hand. He galloped about ten feet away and lowered his forequarters, wagging his tail with glee.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come here, Canidian. Give me that!"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Come and get it!" Tolk shouted. "Let's play keepaway!" He dashed away into the darkness, pursued by ten policemen and two magicians with crystal balls. I backed into the crowd with the other Skeeve-faces. Something hit me on the shoulder. It was Melvine.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Go on," he whispered in my ear. "Get out of here while the going's good! See you around! I owe you. We all do."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I didn't hesitate a second.</div>
<div class="paragraph">BAMF!</div>
<div class="paragraph">Safely back in the inn on Klah, I threw myself into my easy chair. Tananda slid into the cushioned recess with me. There wasn't really room for both of us, but I didn't mind. Markie served us all a glass of wine. I took a grateful sip and let out a long breath.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Bunny opened Bytina and reestablished the connection to the thread of ether displaying the Sink or Swim arena. There was no sign of the police or any other disturbance. Melvine was in the center of the stage wearing a gold medal and waving to the people as the rest of my students stood behind him and smiled. The Geek came out and gave Mistress Montestruc a huge bouquet of flowers. Names and titles appeared over the faces, and the orchestra struck up once again with farewell music. Schlein's voice boomed out.</div>
<div class="paragraph">"This has been a Deveelishly Handsome Production."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"You did a good job," Bunny said, snapping Bytina shut, "If you weren't sure before that they are going to be all right, you should be now."</div>
<div class="paragraph">I dropped my eyes modestly. "I have to admit, I think I did all right for my first big teaching job."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"Your first?" Tananda asked. "You're going to do it again?"</div>
<div class="paragraph">"No!" I protested. "I mean—that's not what I mean—well, maybe," I added wistfully. "It was kind of fun. And I'd know more of what to do and what not to do in the future."</div>
<div class="paragraph">"That reminds me," Bunny said, tapping her toe impatiently on the floor. "What are you going to do about getting a piece of the fees Aahz collected from YOUR apprentices."</div>
<div class="paragraph">All three women looked at me expectantly.</div>
<div class="paragraph">Sheepishly, I took a sip from my glass. "That's one of the things I haven't really learned how to do yet."</div>


</div>

{% endraw %}

